Item 1A. Risk Factors — Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.”) Human Resources As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 20,100 staff members, which includes approximately 100 part-time staff members. Of the total staff members as of December 31, 2006, approximately 8,200 were engaged in R&D, approximately 3,200 were engaged in selling and marketing, approximately 6,600 were engaged in commercial manufacturing activities and approximately 2,100 were engaged in other activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue attracting and retaining qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to meet our needs. None of our staff members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have experienced no work stoppages. We consider our staff relations to be good. We expect to hire additional staff members throughout 2007, primarily in manufacturing and R&D. 26 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company as of January 31, 2007 are as follows: Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 58, has served as a director of the Company since November 1992. Since May 2000, Mr. Sharer has been Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company and has also been Chairman of the Board since December 2000. From October 1992 to May 2000, Mr. Sharer served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. From April 1989 to October 1992, Mr. Sharer was President of the Business Markets Division of MCI Communications Corporation (“MCI”). From February 1984 to March 1989, Mr. Sharer held numerous executive capacities at General Electric Company (“GE”). Mr. Sharer is a director of 3M Company and Northrop Grumman Corporation. Dr. Dennis M. Fenton, age 55, became Executive Vice President in March 2000 and in May 2003 became Executive Vice President, Operations. From January 1995 to March 2000, Dr. Fenton served as Senior Vice President, Operations; from August 1992 to January 1995 as Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing; and from July 1991 to August 1992 as Vice President, Process Development, Facilities and Manufacturing Services. From October 1988 to July 1991, Dr. Fenton also served as Vice President, Pilot Plant Operations and Clinical Manufacturing; and from 1985 to October 1988, he served as Director, Pilot Plant Operations. Mr. Thomas J. Flanagan, age 57, became Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 2006. From June 2004 to October 2006, Mr. Flanagan served as Vice President, Information Systems. From December 1995 to May 2004, Mr. Flanagan served in a variety of executive positions including Chief Information Officer and Vice President, Global Service Delivery at MCI. Mr. Brian McNamee, age 50, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation (“NBC”), a division of GE. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resource positions at GE. Mr. George J. Morrow, age 54, became Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing in January 2001 and became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations in April 2003. From January 1999 to December 2000, Mr. Morrow was President and Chief Executive Officer of Glaxo Wellcome Inc. (“Glaxo”), a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc. From January 1997 to December 1998, Mr. Morrow was Managing Director of Glaxo Wellcome U.K., also a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc. From May 1993 to December 1996, Mr. Morrow was Group Vice President for Commercial Operations of Glaxo. Mr. Morrow currently serves on the Board of Directors of Align Technology, Inc. Mr. Richard D. Nanula, age 46, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2001. From November 1999 to February 2001, Mr. Nanula was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Broadband Sports, Inc. From March 1998 to May 1999, Mr. Nanula was President and Chief Operating Officer of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide. From August 1986 to March 1998, Mr. Nanula was at the Walt Disney Company; where he held several positions including Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and President of Disney Stores Worldwide. Mr. Nanula currently serves on the Board of Directors of The Boeing Company. Dr. Roger M. Perlmutter, age 54, became Executive Vice President of Research and Development in January 2001. From July 1999 to December 2000, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice President, Worldwide Basic Research and Preclinical Development of Merck Research Laboratories. From February 1999 to July 1999, Dr. Perlmutter served as Executive Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories, and from February 1997 to January 1999, as Senior Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories. From May 1989 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter was also Chairman of the Department of Immunology, University of Washington, and from January 1991 to January 1997, Professor in the Departments of Immunology, Biochemistry and Medicine, University of Washington. From July 1984 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter served as Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at the University of Washington. Dr. Perlmutter currently serves on the Board of Directors of StemCells, Inc. 27 Table of Contents Mr. David J. Scott, age 54, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May 1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also as Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United Distillers & Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR Nabisco, Inc., and was an attorney in private practice. Geographic Area Financial Information For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Note 9, “Segment information — Geographic information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investor Information Financial and other information about us is available on our website (http://www.amgen.com) (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not intended to be a part of this filing). We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This report and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties facing our business. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity and stock price materially and adversely. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patents that they may claim prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude or delay commercialization of products. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in patent litigation. However, a patent dispute or litigation may not discourage a potential violator from bringing the product that is alleged to infringe to market and we may be subject to competition during certain periods of litigation. For example, Roche is developing peg-EPO for which they have filed a BLA with the FDA. On November 8, 2005, we filed a lawsuit against Roche for patent infringement of six of our U.S. patents. In addition, on April 11, 2006, we filed a complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission (“ITC”) requesting that the ITC institute an investigation of Roche’s importation of peg-EPO. This lawsuit and matter is described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings — Roche Matters.” According to Roche’s public statements, they expect to launch the molecule in the U.S. nephrology segment in 2007 despite our ongoing lawsuit and their acknowledgement of our U.S. erythropoietin patents. (See “— Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.”) If we lose or settle current or future litigations 28 Table of Contents at certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities; required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology; or required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. We have filed applications for a number of patents and have been granted patents or obtained rights relating to erythropoietin, natural and recombinant G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, etanercept, cinacalcet HCl, panitumumab and our other products and potential products. We market our erythropoietin, recombinant G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, etanercept, cinacalcet HCl and panitumumab products as EPOGEN® (Epoetin alfa), NEUPOGEN® (Filgrastim), Aranesp® (darbepoetin alfa), Neulasta® (pegfilgrastim), Enbrel® (etanercept), Sensipar®/Mimpara® (cinacalcet HCl) and VectibixTM (panitumumab) respectively. With respect to our material patents, we have had a number of G-CSF patent expiries in the United States and one expiry in the EU and one erythropoietin patent expiry in the EU. For additional information on our material patents see “Item 1. Business — Patents and Trademarks.” We also have been granted or obtained rights to patents in Europe relating to erythropoietin; G-CSF; pegfilgrastim (pegylated G-CSF); etanercept; two relating to darbepoetin alfa; hyperglycosylated erythropoietic proteins; and cinacalcet HCl. Our principal European patent relating to erythropoietin expired on December 12, 2004 and our principal European patent relating to G-CSF expired on August 22, 2006. We believe that as these patents have expired, other companies could receive approval for and market follow-on biologics or biosimilar products (as they are generally known in the EU) to compete with these products in the EU; presenting additional competition to our products. (See “— Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.”) Although we cannot predict with certainty when the first biosimilar products could appear on the market in the EU, we expect that the first biosimilar G-CSF product may be approved in the EU some time in 2007 and could be available shortly thereafter, and that it would compete with Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN®. While we do not market EPOGEN® in Europe as this right belongs to Johnson & Johnson (through KA), we do market Aranesp® in the EU, which competes with Johnson & Johnson’s EPREX® product, Roche’s NeoRecormon® product and others’ erythropoietin products. We expect that biosimilar erythropoietin products may be approved in the EU in 2007 and could be available in the EU shortly after approval. Based on an announcement by Shire, we expect that a competing erythropoietin product, manufactured by Shire, may appear on the market in the EU in 2007. In addition, Roche is developing its peg-EPO product which, upon regulatory approval, we expect they will launch in the EU nephrology segment in 2007. Although, we cannot predict whether or to what extent the entry of biosimilar products or other competing products would impact future Aranesp®, Neulasta® or NEUPOGEN® sales in the EU, biosimilar products or other products that effectively compete with our products could reduce sales which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In 2006, the EMEA developed and issued final regulatory guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilar products. The final guidelines included clinical trial guidance for certain biosimilar products including erythropoietins and G-CSFs, which guidance recommends that applicants seeking approval of such biosimilar products conduct fairly extensive pharmacodynamic, toxicological, clinical safety studies and a pharmacovigilance program. In the United States, there currently is no legal approval pathway for follow-on biologics. A number of events would need to occur before these products could enter the market, including passage of legislation by Congress to create a new approval pathway and promulgation of associated regulations and guidance by the FDA. Until such legislation is created, we cannot predict when follow-on biologics could appear in the United States. 29 Table of Contents Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected. Before we can sell any products, we must conduct clinical trials which demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans for the indications sought. The results of these clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain regulatory approval from government authorities such as the FDA. Clinical trials are experiments conducted using our product candidates in human patients having the diseases or medical conditions we are trying to address. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. We are required to conduct clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims we are seeking. The length of time, number of trial sites and patients required for clinical trials vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate and therefore, we may spend as much as several years completing certain trials. Our ability to complete our clinical trials in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional review board approval and the rate of patient enrollment in clinical trials. Patient enrollment is a function of several factors, including the size and location of the patient population, enrollment criteria and competition with other clinical trials for eligible patients. As such, there may be limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. Delays in planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals and associated delays in product candidates reaching the market. Patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of our clinical trials that may delay or prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or additional indications for our currently approved products, or may render the product candidate commercially infeasible. Additionally, adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies performed by us or by others may expand safety labeling for our approved products and may negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing behavior, use of our products, regulatory or private healthcare organization medical guidelines and reimbursement of our products. (See “— Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market.”; Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and, to the extent that reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.”; and “— Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.”) For example, as a result of observing an increased frequency of cholecystitis, inflammation of the gall bladder, in patients treated with our late-stage product candidate motesanib diphosphate, we delayed our phase 3 “mega-site” trial (involving 200 or more sites) in first line non-small cell lung cancer, which was previously expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2006, until the second half of 2007. Clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard of medical care. However in certain diseases, such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In these diseases, the duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on an out of date standard of medical care, limiting the utility and application of such trials. Of course, even if we successfully manage our clinical trials, we may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval on this basis. The number, size, duration and complexity of our clinical trials has increased and we expect will continue to increase in 2007. Due to the number of large-scale clinical trials initiated in 2006, we expect to see further growth in R&D expense in 2007, but not to the same extent experienced in 2006. For example, the nine “mega-site” trials which we began in 2006 will continue to require significant time, resources and expense to execute. To execute our clinical trial programs, we need to continue the growth of our development organization and associated R&D support organizations, implement new management structures and approaches and continue to partner with third-party contract clinical trial providers. Further, to increase the number of patients available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we partnered with third-party contract clinical trial providers to open clinical sites and are enrolling patients in a number of new geographic locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited, including Russia, Mexico and some South American countries. In 2007, we plan to expand to Southeast Asia and India. Conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited experience requires 30 Table of Contents substantial time and resources to identify and understand the unique regulatory environments of individual countries. If we fail to adequately manage the increasing number, size, complexity and regulatory diversity of our clinical trials, our clinical trials and corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates altogether. If we are unable to market and sell our product candidates or are unable to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected materially. Additional information on our clinical trials can be found on our website at (http://www.amgen.com). (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.) Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market. We and certain of our licensors and partners conduct research, preclinical testing and clinical trials for our product candidates. In addition, we manufacture and contract manufacture and certain of our licensors and partners manufacture our product candidates. We also manufacture and contract manufacture, price, sell, distribute and market or co-market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA and CMS, as well as in foreign countries, including European countries, Canada, Australia and Japan. Currently, we are required in the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries’ regulatory authorities before we can manufacture (or have our third-party manufacturers produce), market and sell our products in those countries. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to fail to approve commencement of, suspend or terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, mandate product withdrawals and require changes in labeling of our products. In our experience, obtaining regulatory approval is costly and takes many years, and after it is obtained, remains costly to maintain. With the occurrence of a number of high profile safety events with certain pharmaceutical products such as Vioxx and Bextra, regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”), medical professionals, including physicians and investigators, and the general public are increasingly concerned about potential or perceived safety issues associated with pharmaceutical and biological products. As a result, clinical trials are receiving greater scrutiny with respect to safety, which may lead to fewer treatments being approved by the FDA. Any safety concerns may result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities terminating clinical trials before completion or requiring longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense. (See “— Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected.”) Adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies performed by us or by others may expand safety labeling for our approved products and may negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing behavior, use of our products, regulatory or private health organization medical guidelines and reimbursement for our products. For example, we recently announced an initial analysis of our Anemia of Cancer phase 3 study where Aranesp® was administered to patients with active cancer not receiving chemo- or radiation therapy. All patients entering the study had anemia (Hb£ 11g/dL) in the setting of active cancer (i.e. they were not in remission). This study was designed to establish the effectiveness of Aranesp® in the potential anemia of cancer indication and failed to meet its primary endpoint of reducing red blood cell transfusions in the Aranesp® treatment group. There was a statistically significant increased risk of death with the Aranesp® treated group. In the population of patients with active cancer, not in remission and not receiving chemo- or radiation therapy, who have anemia, we concluded that the risk/benefit ratio for Aranesp® use was at best neutral and perhaps negative and we will not pursue regulatory approval for anemia of cancer at this time. Further, the FDA has notified us that that an Oncology Advisory Committee Meeting (“ODAC”) has been scheduled for May 10, 2007, partially based upon initial data from our Anemia of Cancer study and preliminary data from the third-party investigator Danish Head and Neck Cancer (DAHANCA) 10 Study. It is our understanding that the ODAC meeting will review progress made by us 31 Table of Contents and others to understand the effects of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (“ESAs”) on survival and tumor progression in cancer patients. In addition, the recent interim analysis of our PACCE study, a non-registration-enabling trial evaluating panitumumab in first- line treatment of metastatic CRC, showed an increased incidence of diarrhea, dehydration and infection when given in combination with bevacizumab and either irinotecan or oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy. (See “— Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.” and “Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and, to the extent that reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.”) Substantially all of our marketed products are currently approved in the United States and most are approved in Europe and in other foreign countries for specific uses. However, later discovery of unknown problems with our products could result in restrictions on the sale or use of such products, including potential withdrawal of the product from the market. If new medical data suggests an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified side-effects, we may voluntarily withdraw, or regulatory authorities may mandate the withdrawal of, such product from the market for some period or permanently. For example, we previously initiated a voluntary recall of the Neulasta® SureClick™ pre-filled pen in Europe because of the potential risk to patients of receiving an incomplete dose and we have previously conducted a voluntary wholesaler recall of a limited number of lots of ENBREL as a result of a small number of reports of missing, detached or loose rubber caps on the needle-less syringe filled with diluent liquid by a third-party contract manufacturer and packaged with the vials of ENBREL. Although there have been no observable adverse event trends associated with the Neulasta® SureClick™ pen or with the reports of missing, detached or loose rubber caps, we may experience the same or other problems in the future resulting in broader product recalls or adverse event trends. Further, regulatory agencies could change existing, or promulgate new, regulations at any time which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our existing or future products or require significant additional costs to obtain or maintain such approvals. If we or others identify side effects before or after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products and changes to or re-approvals of our manufacturing facilities may be required, any of which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. Certain labels or label changes may be necessary for a number of reasons, including: the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns by regulatory agencies; the discovery of significant problems with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products or subsequent concerns about the sufficiency of the data or studies underlying the label. Before any of our products are approved for commercial use, regulatory bodies could decide that the product label include certain warning language as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products. For example, the Vectibix™ prescribing information includes a boxed warning from the FDA on dermatologic toxicities and severe infusion reactions as part of an evolving FDA labeling to the anti-EGFr class. In addition, after any of our products are approved for commercial use, we or regulatory bodies could decide, and have in the past decided, that changes to our product labeling are required. For example, the FDA instituted a class label change for the three recombinant ESAs marketed in the United States. The label change to the class, which included EPOGEN® and Aranesp®, added information about pure red cell aplasia (“PRCA”) to the adverse event profile section to the three ESA product labels in the U.S. Additionally, the New England Journal of Medicine recently published results from Johnson & Johnson’s Correction of Hemoglobin and Outcomes In Renal Insufficiency (“CHOIR”) study. The CHOIR study, involved non-dialysis patients in whom a hemoglobin target of 13.5 g/dL was established which is meaningfully higher than the FDA-approved target range of 10-12 g/dL described in the ESAs’ labels. In the CHOIR study, patients assigned to the higher 13.5 g/dL hemoglobin target group had worse outcomes than those patients treated to a target hemoglobin level of 11.3 g/dL. We are in discussions with the FDA with respect to all ESA labels and expect that we will add patient safety information in the form of a boxed warning that will apply to both the nephrology and oncology indications for the class of approved ESAs. This language is still in development, discussions with the FDA are on-going, and any label change is subject to FDA approval. Any significant concerns raised about the safety or efficacy of our products could also result in the need to reformulate those products, to conduct additional clinical trials, to make changes to our manufacturing processes or to seek re-approval of our manufacturing facilities. Significant concerns about the safety and effectiveness of a 32 Table of Contents product could ultimately lead to the revocation of its marketing approval. The labeling of a new product, a revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could be required even if there is no clearly established connection between the product and the safety or efficacy concerns that have been raised. If the labeling of a new product, a revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above resulted in decreased use of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. In addition, if regulatory authorities determine that we or our licensor or partner conducting R&D activities on our behalf have not complied with regulations in the R&D of a product candidate, then they may not approve the product candidate and we will not be able to market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and, to the extent that reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products. In the United States, dialysis providers are primarily reimbursed for EPOGEN® by the federal government through the ESRD Program of Medicare. The ESRD Program reimburses approved providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs; the remainder is paid by other sources, including patients, state Medicaid programs, private insurance, and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. The ESRD Program reimbursement rate is established by federal law and is monitored and implemented by CMS. Most patients receiving Aranesp®, Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN® for approved indications are covered by both government and private payer healthcare programs. Since January 1, 2006, ENBREL and Sensipar® are eligible for coverage from the U.S. government under Medicare Part D. Although both ENBREL and Sensipar® have received broad formulary placement in 2006 and 2007, Part D formulary placements are made by individual Part D plan sponsors with oversight by CMS and are subject to revision in the future. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the U.S., the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of healthcare costs of patients. Governments may regulate access to, prices or reimbursement levels of our products to control costs. Worldwide use of our products may be affected by these cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments and private insurers to healthcare providers in response to ongoing initiatives to reduce healthcare expenditures. Further, changes in guidelines or recommendations promulgated by government agencies, professional societies, insurance carriers, practice management groups, physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases may negatively impact reimbursement of our products. (See “— Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.”) Therefore, sales of all of our principal products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including governments and private insurance plans. The MMA was enacted into law in December 2003 and implemented January 1, 2005. Changes resulting from the MMA, which lowered reimbursement for our products, could negatively affect product sales of some of our marketed products however, we believe that our product sales for 2005 and 2006 were not significantly impacted by the reimbursement changes resulting from the MMA. We believe this was, in part, due to the effects of CMS’ 2005 and 2006 oncology demonstration projects on sales of our products used in supportive cancer care, especially Aranesp®. However, we believe it is unlikely that CMS will implement an oncology demonstration project for 2007. Furthermore, we believe that our sales for 2005 and 2006 were not significantly impacted, in part, due to increased reimbursement rates to physicians from CMS for services associated with drug administration. The 2006 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Payment Final Rule reduced payments for physician services in 2006 by approximately 4.4% on average, although subsequent legislation eliminated this reduction for 2006. The Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Payment Final Rule for 2007 would have reduced payments for physician services in 2007 by approximately 5.0% on average, however, as in 2006, new legislation eliminated the reduction in payments for 2007. Because we cannot accurately predict the impact of any such changes on how, or under what circumstances, healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products, we cannot estimate the full impact of the MMA on our business, although we believe that it is not likely to be significant to our business in 2007. However, additional provisions of the MMA and other regulations affecting reimbursement that have gone or may go into effect could affect our product sales and related sales growth in the future. 33 Table of Contents The main components of the MMA that affect our currently marketed products are as follows: • Through 2004, the AWP mechanism was the basis of Medicare Part B payment for covered outpatient drugs and biologics. Since January 1, 2005, in the physician clinic setting, Aranesp®, Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN® are being reimbursed under a Medicare Part B payment methodology that reimburses each product at 106% of its ASP (sometimes referred to as “ASP+6%”). ASP is calculated by the manufacturer based on a statutorily defined formula and submitted to CMS. A product’s ASP is calculated on a quarterly basis and therefore may change each quarter. The ASP in effect for a given quarter (the “Current Period”) is based upon certain historical sales and sales incentive data covering a statutorily defined period of time preceding the Current Period. For example, the ASP for Aranesp® that will be in effect for the second quarter of 2007 will be based in part on certain historical sales and sales incentive data for Aranesp® from January 1, 2006 through December 30, 2006. CMS publishes the ASPs for products in advance of the quarter in which they go into effect. The ASPs for Aranesp® and Neulasta® trended downward during the first three quarters of 2005, began to stabilize during the fourth quarter of 2005 and remained relatively stable in 2006. • Since August 1, 2006, physicians in the physician clinic setting have had the choice between purchasing and billing for specific drugs under the ASP+6% system or obtaining those drugs from vendors selected by CMS under the CAP. We believe CAP is unlikely to have a significant impact on our business in 2007. • Medicare’s hospital OPPS, which determines payment rates for specified covered outpatient drugs and biologics in the hospital outpatient setting, utilized AWP as the basis for reimbursement in 2005. CMS’ 2005 reimbursement rate, as in 2003 and 2004, continued the application of an “equitable adjustment” such that the 2005 Aranesp® reimbursement rate was based on the AWP of PROCRIT®. For 2005, the reimbursement rate for Aranesp® was 83% of the AWP for PROCRIT®, down from 88% of the AWP for PROCRIT® in 2004, with a dose conversion ratio of 330 U PROCRIT® to 1 mcg Aranesp®, the same ratio as 2004. Effective January 1, 2006, the OPPS system changed from an AWP based reimbursement system to a system based on ASP. This change affected Aranesp®, Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN® when administered in the hospital outpatient setting. The OPPS rule for 2006 and 2007 based reimbursement for non-pass through products such as Aranesp®, Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN® on ASP+6% using the same payment amounts as used in the physician clinic setting and did not apply an “equitable adjustment” to tie the reimbursement rate for Aranesp® to PROCRIT® using a dose conversion ratio. CMS noted in the 2005 final rule and has maintained that it reserves the right to apply an “equitable adjustment” to the payment rate for Aranesp® in future years. • Pursuant to final rules issued by CMS on November 3, 2004, Medicare reimbursement for EPOGEN® used in the dialysis setting for calendar year 2005 changed from the previous rate in 2004 of $10 per 1,000 Units to $9.76 per 1,000 Units, in 2005, a rate based upon an average acquisition cost for 2003 determined by the OIG and adjusted for price inflation based on the Producer Price Index for pharmaceutical products. Pursuant to the CMS final rules, the difference between the 2004 reimbursement rates for all drugs separately billed outside the dialysis composite rate (including EPOGEN®) and the 2005 reimbursement rates for such drugs was added to the composite rate that dialysis providers receive for dialysis treatment. Pursuant to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Payment Final Rule for 2006, effective January 1, 2006, the payment mechanism for separately reimbursed dialysis drugs in both free-standing and hospital-based dialysis centers, including EPOGEN® and Aranesp®, is reimbursed by Medicare at ASP+6% using the same payment amounts used in the physician clinic setting and calculated quarterly in the same manner as described above for our products under the Medicare Part B payment methodology. CMS publishes the ASPs for products in advance of the quarter in which they go into effect. Based upon the 2006 final rule, the reimbursement rate for EPOGEN® for 2006 decreased from the reimbursement rate in 2005. In the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Payment Final Rule for 2007, CMS continued the 2006 payment mechanism of ASP+6% for EPOGEN® and other separately reimbursed dialysis drugs in both free-standing and hospital-based dialysis centers. Because we cannot accurately predict the extent to which this reimbursement will impact how, or under what circumstances, healthcare 34 Table of Contents providers will prescribe or administer EPOGEN®, we cannot estimate the full impact of the ASP+6% reimbursement rate on our EPOGEN® product sales. However, we believe that it was not significant in 2006 and is unlikely to be significant in 2007. In addition, the MMA required a demonstration project of a bundled payment system for dialysis, including separately billable drugs and EPOGEN®. The demonstration project was scheduled to start in January 2006, but has been delayed with no announced start date. Bundling initiatives that have been implemented in other healthcare settings have resulted in lower utilization of services that had not previously been a part of the bundled payment. Because CMS is continuing to study bundled payments in the ESRD setting, we cannot predict what impact a bundled payments system would have on sales of EPOGEN® or Aranesp® used in the treatment of persons receiving outpatient dialysis services. The Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Proposed Rule for 2007 addressed several new topics regarding the ASP payment methodology. In the proposed rule, CMS invited comment on the need for future guidance concerning the methodology for calculating the ASP of drugs sold under market-based pricing arrangements, including “bundled arrangements,” described by CMS as, for example, when a purchaser’s price for one or more drugs is contingent upon the purchase of other drugs or items. In the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Final Rule for 2007, CMS chose not to establish a specific methodology that manufacturers must use for the treatment of bundled price concessions for the purposes of the ASP calculation at this time. However, CMS stated that it may provide more specific guidance in the future through rulemaking, program instruction or other guidance. On December 29, 2006, the MedPAC released its second Congressionally-mandated report on the impact of changes in Medicare payments for Part B Drugs specifically recommending that the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services clarify ASP reporting requirements “to ensure that ASP calculations allocate discounts to reflect the transaction price for each drug.” Under the ASP system, the Company allocates its discounts based on the prices paid for individual drugs, according to the terms of its contracts with physicians and other purchasers, and we believe that the resulting ASPs reflect the transaction prices for individual drugs. As it is premature to speculate on how CMS and other government organizations may react to the MedPAC’s recommendations, we cannot predict the potential impact the report may have on our business. Any changes to the ASP calculation could adversely affect the Medicare reimbursement for our products administered in the physician office and the hospital outpatient setting. In addition, on November 9, 2005, CMS released a revision to the HMA-PM, a Medicare payment review mechanism used by CMS to audit EPOGEN® and Aranesp® (when used in dialysis) utilization and appropriate hematocrit outcomes of dialysis patients. The new policy, Claims Monitoring Policy: Erythropoietin/darbepoetin alfa usage for beneficiaries with end stage renal disease (“Claims Monitoring Policy”), became effective April 1, 2006 and was further revised effective October 1, 2006. The revised Claims Monitoring Policy provides that if a patient’s hemoglobin is greater than 13 grams per deciliter, providers are instructed to reduce the patient’s EPOGEN® and Aranesp® dose and report this reduction on claims using a coding modifier. If the provider does not reduce the patient’s EPOGEN® and Aranesp® dose and there is no medical documentation to support the higher dosage, reimbursement will be reduced to the level it would have been had the provider reduced dosage by twenty-five percent. Based on our preliminary evaluation, we do not expect the Claims Monitoring Policy to have a negative impact on EPOGEN® and Aranesp® sales and given the importance of EPOGEN® and Aranesp® for maintaining the quality of care for dialysis patients, we do not expect that the policy will substantially impact the utilization of EPOGEN® and Aranesp®. However, given the recent revisions, we are currently in the process of further evaluating the Claims Monitoring Policy. As a result, we cannot predict the potential full impact of this final guidance on our business. Further, the DRA included provisions, which are phased in over time, regarding state collection and submission of data for the purpose of collecting Medicaid drug rebates from manufacturers for physician-administered drugs. We expect that state compliance with elements of these provisions that become effective in 2007 will increase the level of Medicaid rebates paid by us. We are currently in the process of further evaluating the impact of the DRA, and as a result we cannot predict the potential full impact on our business. Related to this issue, CMS issued a proposed Medicaid rule on December 18, 2006 that covered a broad range of topics concerning the calculation and use of AMP and best price as well as a proposed definition for bundled sales under the 35 Table of Contents Medicaid program. We are undergoing a review of the proposed rule and cannot speculate on the specific contents of the final rule prior to its issuance. If, and when, reimbursement rates or availability for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our current or future products, healthcare providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce the use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. This could result in lower product sales, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. For example, the use of EPOGEN® in the United States in connection with treatment for end stage renal disease is funded primarily by the U.S. federal government. In early 1997, CMS, formerly known as Healthcare Financing Administration (“HCFA”), instituted a reimbursement change for EPOGEN®, which materially and adversely affected our EPOGEN® sales until the policies were revised. Also, we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in the United States, Europe and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact product sales. Further, when a new therapeutic product is approved, the governmental and/or private coverage and reimbursement for that product is uncertain and a failure to demonstrate clear economic value associated with the use of a new therapeutic product as compared to existing therapeutic products or practices may result in inadequate or no reimbursement. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our approved products or product candidates, including those at a late stage of development, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. Sales of all our products are and will be affected by government and private payer reimbursement policies. Reduction in reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. However, professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies and reimbursement of our products by government and private payers. (See “— Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and, to the extent that reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.”) Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased use and/or dosage of our products. Some examples of agency guidelines include: • The GAO issued a report on December 5, 2006 recommending that ESRD drugs and biologics, including EPOGEN®, be bundled into the Medicare dialysis composite payment rate. A day after the GAO report was released, the House Ways and Means Committee held a hearing that focused on EPOGEN®, including discussion of the delay in the MMA mandated bundled payment demonstration, and the GAO report and recommendation. However, Congress did not take legislative action in 2006 to require bundling. Nevertheless, we expect the policy debate around a bundled payment system in ESRD to continue in 2007. • The National Kidney Foundation (“NKF”) announced it will formally review recent information that may have an impact on its Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (“KDOQI”) Clinical Practice Guidelines and Clinical Practice Recommendations for Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease, which was published in May 2006. The 2006 guidelines recommended that hemoglobin levels for ESA treated patients should be at 11 g/dL or greater and that there was insufficient evidence to recommend routinely maintaining hemoglobin levels at 13.0 g/dL or greater. While we cannot predict whether any amendments to the KDOQI guidelines that reduce the target level will be made, amendments to the guidelines may have a negative impact on the use of our erythropoietin products. 36 Table of Contents • The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (“AHRQ”) is currently drafting a comparative effectiveness review (“CER”) of drug therapies for rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis the purpose of which is to compare the benefits and safety of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis disease modifying antirheumatic drug (“DMARD”) therapies to inform clinical decision making. A draft report that will be subject to public comment is expected to be released the first quarter of 2007. We cannot predict what effect, if any, the draft CER will have on DMARD utilization. • On February 2, 2007, the USP DI Drug Reference Guides removed Aranesp® for treatment of anemia of cancer. This may cause Medicare contractors or private payers to reconsider whether they will pay for some or all anemia of cancer treatment claims. Any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. We may not be able to develop commercial products. We intend to continue an aggressive research and development program. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few R&D projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results • the product candidate was not effective or more effective than currently available therapies in treating a specified condition or illness • the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize • other parties have or may have proprietary rights to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics • we and certain of our licensors or partners may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities Several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process, including, but not limited to, Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (“BDNF”), Megakaryocyte Growth and Development Factor (“MGDF”) and Glial Cell Lined-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (“GDNF”). For example, in 1997, we announced the failure of BDNF for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig’s Disease, because the product candidate, when administered by injection, did not produce acceptable clinical results for a specific use after a phase 3 trial, even though BDNF had progressed successfully through preclinical and earlier clinical trials. In addition, in 1998, we discontinued development of MGDF, a novel platelet growth factor, at the phase 3 trial stage after several people in platelet donation trials developed low platelet counts and neutralizing antibodies. Also, in June 2004, we announced that the phase 2 study of GDNF for the treatment of advanced Parkinson’s disease did not meet the primary study endpoint upon completion of nine months of the double-blind treatment phase of the study even though a small phase 1 pilot investigator-initiated open-label study over a three year period appeared to result in improvements for advanced Parkinson’s disease patients. Subsequently, in the fall of 2004 we discontinued clinical development of GDNF in patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease after several patients in the phase 2 study developed neutralizing antibodies and new 37 Table of Contents preclinical data showed that GDNF caused irreversible damage to the area of the brain critical to movement control and coordination. On February 11, 2005, we confirmed our previous decision to halt clinical trials and, as a part of that decision and based on thorough scientific review, we also concluded that we will not provide GDNF to the 48 patients who participated in clinical trials that were terminated in the fall of 2004. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce or manufacture commercially successful products. (See “— Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.”; “— Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market.”; and “— Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected.”) We rely on single third-party suppliers for some of our raw materials, medical devices and components; if these third-parties fail to supply these items, we may be unable to supply our products. Certain raw materials necessary for commercial manufacturing and formulation of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Also, certain medical devices and components necessary for formulation, fill and finish of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Certain of these raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third-party suppliers and, in some cases, such proprietary products are specifically cited in our drug application with the FDA so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the FDA approved that other supplier. We would be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices or components for an indeterminate period of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including: • regulatory requirements or action by the FDA or others • adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier • unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak, or otherwise • failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality failures, product contamination and/or recall These events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. For example, we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Puerto Rico facility without impact on our ability to supply these products. However, we may experience these shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints and/or stock-outs of our products. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial manufacturing and the formulation of our products are derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and HSA. We are investigating alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of certain biologically-sourced raw materials as such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall. Also, some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. A material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use of certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt our commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. This could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. 38 Table of Contents Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. We currently manufacture and market all our principal products, and we plan to manufacture and market many of our potential products. Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. (See “— Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market.”) We currently manufacture our products and product candidates at our manufacturing facilities located in Thousand Oaks and Fremont, California, Boulder and Longmont, Colorado, West Greenwich, Rhode Island and Juncos, Puerto Rico (See “— We formulate, fill and finish substantially all our products at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at this facility, we may not be able to supply these products.”) Additionally, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of ENBREL and Sensipar®/Mimpara® and in the formulation, fill and finish of VectibixTM and plan to use contract manufacturers to produce a number of our late stage product candidates. (See “— We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our bulk supply and the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL.”) Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities which is impacted by many manufacturing variables including: • availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier • facility capacity of our facilities or those of our contract manufacturers • facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses • compliance with regulatory requirements • changes in forecasts of future demand • timing and actual number of production runs • production success rates and bulk drug yields • timing and outcome of product quality testing If we have problems in one or more of these or other manufacturing variables, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. For example, in the second quarter of 2002, the prior co-marketers with respect to ENBREL experienced a brief period where no ENBREL was available to fill patient prescriptions, primarily due to variation in the expected production yield from BI Pharma. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients, physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, and sales of our products will be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. We manufacture and contract manufacture, price, sell, distribute and market or co-market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA and CMS, as well as in foreign countries, including European countries, Canada, Australia and Japan. Although we have obtained regulatory approval for our marketed products, these products and our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy FDA or other regulatory approval process are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take longer than five years to build and license a new manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to qualify a new contract manufacturer. In order to maintain adequate supply to keep up with growing demand for our products, mitigate risks associated with the vast majority of our formulation, fill and finish operations located in Puerto Rico, and to adequately prepare to launch a number of our late-stage product candidates, we must successfully implement a number of manufacturing projects on schedule, operate our facilities at nearly full production capacity over the next few years, expand our use of third-party contract manufacturers, build inventory of our bulk and finished products and maintain a 39 Table of Contents state of regulatory compliance. Key manufacturing projects include: 1) construction, qualification and licensure of our new process bulk and formulation, fill and finish plant in Ireland; 2) construction, qualification and licensure of new formulation, fill and finish facilities at our Puerto Rico site; and 3) expansion of existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto Rico site including the licensure of our Puerto Rico plant for production of Epoetin and darbepoetin bulk drug substance and increased production of pegfilgrastim and Filgrastim bulk drug substance. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling our marketed products until we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. Because our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers are subject to FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. For example, we are dependent upon a single FDA approved third-party contract manufacturer for the formulation, fill and finish of VectibixTM. If we or our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. If we are unable to manufacture, market and sell our products, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We formulate, fill and finish substantially all our products at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at this facility, we may not be able to supply these products. We currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for EPOGEN®, Aranesp®, Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN® and some formulation, fill and finish operations for ENBREL at our manufacturing facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico. Our global supply of these products is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of this facility. Additionally, to keep up with the growing demand for our products, we are operating this facility at nearly full production capacity. A number of factors could adversely affect our formulation, fill and finish operations, including: • power failures • breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment • improper installation or operation of equipment • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of a pandemic flu outbreak, or otherwise • inability of third-party suppliers to provide raw materials and components • natural or other disasters, including hurricanes • failures to comply with regulatory requirements, including those of the FDA For example, this facility in Puerto Rico has experienced manufacturing component shortages and has had evidence of adverse trends in the microbial bioburden of the production environment that reduced the production output. Although these experiences in Puerto Rico have not impacted our ability to supply product in the past, the same or other problems may result in our being unable to supply these products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. Although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. The extent of the coverage of our insurance could limit our ability to mitigate for lost sales and could result in such losses adversely affecting our product sales and operating results materially. (See “— Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.”) 40 Table of Contents We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our bulk supply and the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL. We currently produce a substantial portion of annual ENBREL supply at our Rhode Island manufacturing facilities. However, we also depend on third parties for a significant portion of our ENBREL bulk supply as well as for some of the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL that we manufacture. BI Pharma is our third-party contract manufacturer of ENBREL bulk drug; accordingly, our U.S. and Canadian supply of ENBREL is currently significantly dependent on BI Pharma’s production schedule for ENBREL. We would be unable to produce ENBREL in sufficient quantities to substantially offset shortages in BI Pharma’s scheduled production if BI Pharma or other third-party contract manufacturers used for the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL bulk drug were to cease or interrupt production or services or otherwise fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, including due to labor shortages or disputes, regulatory requirements or action or contamination of product lots or product recalls. For example, in the second quarter of 2002, the prior co-marketers with respect to ENBREL experienced a brief period where no ENBREL was available to fill patient prescriptions, primarily due to variation in the expected production yield from BI Pharma. We cannot guarantee that an alternative third-party contract manufacturer would be available on a timely basis or at all. This in turn could materially reduce our ability to satisfy demand for ENBREL, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Among the factors that could affect our actual supply of ENBREL at any time include, without limitation, BI Pharma’s and the Rhode Island facilities’ bulk drug production scheduling. For example, BI Pharma does not produce ENBREL continuously; rather, it produces the bulk drug substance through a series of periodic campaigns throughout the year. Our Rhode Island manufacturing facilities are currently dedicated to ENBREL production. The amount of commercial inventory available to us at any time depends on a variety of factors, including the timing and actual number of BI Pharma’s production runs, the actual number of runs at our Rhode Island manufacturing facilities, and, for either the Rhode Island or BI Pharma facilities, the level of production yields and success rates, the timing and outcome of product quality testing and the amount of formulation, fill and finish capacity. We are also dependent on third-parties for some formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL bulk drug substance manufactured at our Rhode Island facilities. If third-party formulation, fill and finish manufacturers are unable to provide sufficient capacity or are otherwise unable to provide services to us, the supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected materially. Under a collaboration and global supply agreement, the Company and Wyeth share the total worldwide bulk supply of ENBREL produced by Amgen’s Rhode Island manufacturing facilities, BI Pharma’s manufacturing facility in Germany and Wyeth’s manufacturing facility in Ireland. Our ENBREL supply forecasts rely on certain assumptions of how much ENBREL each of these manufacturing facilities is expected to produce. If any of these manufacturing facilities are unable to produce in accordance with our or Wyeth’s expectations, the worldwide supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected materially. In such cases, we may be required to allocate supply for Wyeth’s benefit. To the extent that there is a shortfall in worldwide production expectations, our supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected. Additionally, the costs associated with a shortfall or failure in production of ENBREL would be borne by both parties. Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. For example, ENBREL competes in certain circumstances with products marketed by Johnson & Johnson, Abbott, Biogen, Genentech, Bristol-Meyers Squibb, Novartis and Sanofi-Aventis, as well as the generic drug methotrexate, and may face competition from other potential therapies being developed. While ENBREL continues to maintain a leading position in both rheumatology and dermatology, it has experienced share loss to competitors. Additionally, Aranesp® competes with products marketed by Johnson & Johnson in the United States and the EU and with products marketed by Roche in the EU. Also, Aranesp® may face competition in the EU in 2007 from another erythropoietin product produced by Shire. Aranesp® and EPOGEN® may also face competition in the U.S. from Roche’s peg-EPO for which they have 41 Table of Contents filed a BLA with the FDA. According to Roche’s public statements, they expect to launch the molecule in the U.S. nephrology segment in 2007, despite our ongoing lawsuit and their acknowledgement of our U.S. erythropoietin patents. (See “— If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected.”) In addition, Astellas/FibroGen are co-developing an erythropoietic small molecule and Affymax is developing an erythropoietin mimetic for the treatment of anemia. VectibixTM, our recently launched oncology therapeutic to treat patients with metastatic colorectal cancer, competes with Imclone’s Erbitux®. Further, if our currently marketed products are approved for new uses, or if we sell new products, we may face new, additional competition that we do not face today. Our products may compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or superior performance, are easier to administer or that are otherwise competitive with our products. Our principal European patent relating to erythropoietin expired on December 12, 2004 and our principal European patent relating to G-CSF expired on August 22, 2006. We believe that as these patents have expired, other companies could receive approval for and market biosimilar products to compete with our products in the EU, presenting additional competition to our products. Although we cannot predict with certainty when the first biosimilar products could appear on the market in the EU, we expect that the first biosimilar G-CSF product may be approved some time in 2007 and could be available shortly thereafter, and that it would compete with Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN®. While we do not market EPOGEN® in Europe as this right belongs to Johnson & Johnson (through KA), we do market Aranesp® in the EU, which competes with Johnson & Johnson’s EPREX® product, Roche’s NeoRecormon® product and others’ erythropoietin products. In addition, Roche is developing its peg-EPO product which, upon regulatory approval, we expect they will launch in the EU nephrology segment in 2007. We believe that biosimilar erythropoietin products may be approved in the EU in 2007 and could be available in the EU shortly after approval. We cannot predict whether or to what extent the entry of biosimilar products or other competing products would impact future Aranesp®, Neulasta® or NEUPOGEN® sales in the EU. Our inability to compete effectively could reduce sales which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In 2006, the EMEA developed and issued final regulatory guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilar products. The final guidelines included clinical trial guidance for certain biosimilar products including erythropoietins and G-CSFs, which guidance recommends that applicants seeking approval of such biosimilar products conduct fairly extensive pharmacodynamic, toxicological, clinical safety studies and a pharmacovigilance program. In the United States, there currently is no legal approval pathway for follow-on biologics. A number of events would need to occur before these products could enter the market, including passage of legislation by Congress to create a new approval pathway and promulgation of associated regulations and guidance by the FDA. Until such legislation is created, we cannot predict when follow-on biologics could appear in the United States. Certain of our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, market products or are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. In the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs approved for other indications that may be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. Large pharmaceutical corporations may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these competitors may bring to market. Business combinations among our competitors may also increase competition and the resources available to our competitors. 42 Table of Contents We have grown rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that growth our business could be adversely impacted. We have had an aggressive growth plan that has included substantial and increasing investments in research and development, sales and marketing and facilities. We plan to continue to grow and our plan has a number of risks, some of which we cannot completely control. For example: • we need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level of operating expenses, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control • we need to attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, including a significant number of new personnel to support our R&D organization and manufacturing operations in 2007 • we will need to assimilate new staff members and we will need to manage complexities associated with a larger, faster growing and more geographically diverse organization • we will need to expand our clinical development resources to manage and execute increasingly global, larger and more complex clinical trials • we will need to significantly expand our sales and marketing resources to launch a number of late-stage product candidates close in time • we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing capacity for both commercial and clinical supply • we will need to start up our new manufacturing facilities and enter into and manage new third-party contract manufacturing arrangements, while operating our existing manufacturing facilities at near or full capacity • we are implementing an enterprise resource planning system to support our increasingly complex business and business processes and such implementation is costly and carries substantial operations risk, including loss of data or information, unanticipated increases in costs, disruption of operations or business interruption Of course, there may be other risks and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage these or other risks. If we fail to manage our growth in these ways or others, such failure could result in a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may negatively impact our bargaining power and profit margins. The substantial majority of our U.S. product sales are made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation. These distributors, in turn, sell our products to their customers, which include clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. One of these products, EPOGEN®, is primarily sold to free-standing dialysis clinics, which have recently experienced significant consolidation. Two organizations, DaVita Inc. and Fresenius own or manage a large number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the United States and account for a significant majority of all EPOGEN® sales in the free-standing dialysis clinic setting. In October 2006, we entered into a five-year sole sourcing and supply agreement with an affiliate of Fresenius, on its behalf and on behalf of certain of its affiliates, to purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of Fresenius’ commercial requirements for erythropoietic stimulating proteins for use in managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in the United States and Puerto Rico, based on forecasts provided by Fresenius and subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement. This concentration and consolidation has increased these entities’ purchasing leverage and may put pressure on our pricing by their potential ability to extract price discounts on our products or fees for other services, correspondingly negatively impacting our bargaining position and profit margins. The results of these developments may have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Our marketing of ENBREL will be dependent in part upon Wyeth. Under a co-promotion agreement, the Company and Wyeth market and sell ENBREL in the United States and Canada. A management committee comprised of an equal number of representatives from us and Wyeth is responsible for overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL including strategic planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan, product pricing and the establishment of a brand team. The brand team, with equal representation from us and Wyeth, prepares and implements the annual marketing plan, which includes a minimum level of financial and sales personnel commitment from each party, and is responsible for all sales activities. If Wyeth fails to market ENBREL effectively or if the Company and Wyeth fail to coordinate our efforts effectively, our sales of ENBREL may be adversely affected materially. Our business may be impacted by government investigations or litigation. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings relating to various patent matters, government investigations, our business operations, government requests for information and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Matters required to be disclosed by us are set forth in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and are updated as required in subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts and/or injunctive relief that affects how we operate our business. Consequently, it is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (in the case of monetary damages, in the period in which such damages are incurred). The federal government, state governments and private payers are investigating, and many have filed actions against numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Amgen and Immunex, now a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, alleging that the reporting of prices for pharmaceutical products has resulted in false and overstated AWP, which in turn is alleged to have improperly inflated the reimbursement paid by Medicare beneficiaries, insurers, state Medicaid programs, medical plans and other payers to healthcare providers who prescribed and administered those products. A number of these actions have been brought against us and/or Immunex. Additionally, a number of states have pending investigations regarding our Medicaid drug pricing practices and the U.S. Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services have requested that Immunex produce documents relating to pricing issues. Further, certain state government entity plaintiffs in some of these AWP cases are also alleging that companies, including ours, were not reporting their “best price” to the states under the Medicaid program. These cases and investigations are described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings — Average Wholesale Price Litigation” and are updated as required in subsequent Form 10-Qs. Other states and agencies could initiate investigations of our pricing practices. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions and/or investigations could result in substantial economic damages and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which such liabilities are incurred. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Amgen and Immunex have been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other biotechnology companies, is volatile. For example, in the fifty-two weeks prior to December 31, 2006, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $80.36 per share to a low of $63.92 per share. Our stock price may be affected by a number of factors, such as: • changes in the government’s or private payers’ reimbursement policies or prescribing guidelines for our products 44 Table of Contents • adverse developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products • actual or anticipated clinical trial results of ours or other companies and organizations • actual or anticipated product supply constraints • product development or other business announcements by us or our competitors • regulatory matters or actions • announcements in the scientific and research community • intellectual property and legal matters • broader economic, industry and market trends unrelated to our performance • pronouncements and rule changes by applicable standards authorities that change the manner in which we account for certain transactions In addition, if our revenues, earnings or other financial results in any period fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations. The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the United States and to extensive regulation in foreign countries. (See “— Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market.” and “— Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.”) While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe to be current best practices, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations and/or laws a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. Our revenues may fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause financial results to be below expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. In budgeting our operating expenses for the foreseeable future, we assume that revenues will continue to grow; however, some of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term. Because of this, even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a period’s results to be below our expectations or projections. A revenue shortfall could arise from any number of factors, some of which we cannot control. For example, we may face: • changes in the government’s or private payers’ reimbursement policies or prescribing guidelines for our products • adverse developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products • inability to maintain regulatory approval of marketed products or manufacturing facilities • changes in our product pricing strategies • lower than expected demand for our products 45 Table of Contents • inability to provide adequate supply of our products • changes in wholesaler buying patterns • increased competition from new or existing products • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates Of course, there may be other factors that affect our revenues in any given period. Similarly if investors or the investment community are uncertain about our financial performance for a given period, our stock price could also be adversely impacted. Continual manufacturing process improvement efforts may result in the carrying value of certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets becoming impaired. In connection with our ongoing process improvement activities associated with products we manufacture, we continually invest in our various manufacturing practices and related processes with the objective of increasing production yields and success rates to gain increased cost efficiencies and capacity utilization. We are investigating alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of certain biologically-sourced raw materials. The development or implementation of such processes could result in changes to or redundancies with our existing manufacturing operations. Depending on the timing and outcomes of these efforts and our other estimates and assumptions regarding future product sales, the carrying value of certain manufacturing facilities or other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value at the time that such effects are identified. The potential recognition of impairment in the carrying value, if any, could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 46 Table of Contents 