ITEM 1A. Risk Factors ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments ITEM 2. Properties ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures ITEM 9B. Other Information PART III ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant ITEM 11. Executive Compensation ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview BancTec, Inc. (BancTec or the Company), a Delaware corporation, helps clients around the world simplify the process of managing their information. The Company provides comprehensive payment, remittance, document, content and IT solutions that automate complex, high-volume and data-intensive business processes. BancTec’s offerings include business solutions, business process outsourcing, and infrastructure services, which address market-specific pressures for clients in the financial services, manufacturing, government, services and utilities industries. Worldwide, the Company employs approximately 2,750 people full-time and is headquartered in Irving, Texas. Founded in 1972, the Company serves approximately 2,000 customers in more than 50 countries, with international revenue in 2005 representing approximately one-third of total revenues. The Company markets its portfolio of solutions to specific target markets in which it believes it has extensive business process expertise and certain competitive advantages that allow it to maintain or achieve a leadership position. Ownership Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe (“WCAS”), a private investment partnership, owns 93.5% of the Company through a two-tier holding company structure above the Company. All the outstanding capital stock of the Company and warrants to purchase capital stock of the Company (but not employee stock options) are held by BancTec Intermediate Holding, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Intermediate Holding”). In turn, all the outstanding capital stock of Intermediate Holding is held by BancTec Upper-Tier Holding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Upper-Tier Holding”). Upper-Tier Holding also holds the Senior Subordinated Note Due 2009, together with pay-in-kind interest thereon, in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $193.8 million (the “Sponsor Note”). WCAS is one of the largest private equity investment firms in the U.S. focused exclusively on investments in three industries: information and business services, healthcare, and communications. Since its founding in 1979, WCAS has organized 14 limited partnerships with total capital of more than $13 billion. The firm currently invests out of Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe IX, L.P., a $3.8 billion equity fund, and WCAS Capital Partners IV, L.P., a $1.3 billion dedicated subordinated debt fund. Offerings and Markets Americas and EMEA. The solutions group is made up of the United States, Central and South America, and Canada (“Americas”) and Europe, Middle East and Asia (“EMEA”). These two groups offer a similar portfolio of business process outsourcing, business solutions, services and technology, and market to similar types of clients. The solutions offered focus primarily on payment and remittance processing, document and content processing and IT service management. The Company’s solutions help drive operational efficiencies through automation of mission critical processes for some of the world’s largest credit card companies, financial institutions, insurance companies, government entities and consumer goods manufacturers. Business Process Outsourcing. Because BancTec has a strong tradition of technology experience, service excellence and solution expertise, the Company is uniquely positioned for leadership in the rapidly growing market for Business Process Outsourcing (BPO). BancTec has a long history of offering BPO in the U.K., and launched services in the United States in 2005. As process experts, BancTec applies proven methods, technology and services that allow clients to delegate a part of their business for BancTec to manage and deliver with measurable performance metrics. BancTec’s BPO solutions deliver process improvements in a structured and innovative way, and enables clients to switch to a variable cost structure, ensuring that payments are closely aligned with business volumes. In this way, BancTec becomes a seamless extension of the client’s in-house operations. The Company’s solutions generally incorporate advanced applications software developed by the Company and by third parties. These solutions may also include hardware developed and manufactured by the Company as well as by third parties. Key applications provided by Americas and EMEA focus around the following market-specific solutions: Document and Content Processing. The Company’s Document and Content Processing portfolio offers innovative solutions that simplify the capturing, processing and archiving of information across the enterprise. The Company has become a recognized leader in document and content processing by providing clients complete end-to-end solutions for credit card origination, loan/mortgage origination, accounts payable, scan to archive, credit card and loan exceptions, claims processing and mailroom automation. While many BancTec solutions are available ‘out of the box’, they can also be tailored without incurring high development costs and lengthy implementation timescales. Each BancTec solution can be rapidly deployed and easily adapted to changing requirements. The Company’s document and content processing software technology, marketed under the eFIRST brand, is highly scaleable, designed for high-volume, complex and distributed environments. eFIRST Capture provides a software solution to capture structured or unstructured documents from paper scanners, fax machines and e-mail and then extract key information needed to categorize, index and distribute the data to the appropriate person or department. eFIRST Process is a Business Process Management tool that enables business process automation through analysis, 3 modeling, development and deployment. eFIRST Process provides intelligent workflow and routing of documents and cases in complex environments based on business rules. eFIRST Archive can store large volumes of highly complex documents and provide multiple indices for improved search and retrieval. These technologies are available as stand-alone, integrated with Banctec or third-party hardware, or as a foundation for a comprehensive outsourcing solution. The DocuScan 9000, introduced in 2004, is a high-speed mixed document scanner designed to provide the highest hourly throughput in difficult paper handling applications. The Company introduced the DocuScan 6000 in 2005 which offers an entry-level high-speed scanner with a compact physical size that can still digitize and process up to 260 pages per minute. The S-Series is a color page scanner optimized for forms processing environments with standard or similar size documents. The Company provides a complete line of products and services to address the high-volume check or mixed document imaging environment. In addition to the DocuScan Family and S-Series, the company offers the E-Series and X-Series transports. The E-Series is a high-speed transport that can read and sort between 10,000 and 1,000,000 check-size documents per day. The X-Series offers a mid-range transport for check and remittance processing which enables check and item-based transactions to be digitally captured, processed and retained. To help companies achieve optimal performance in day-to-day check imaging operations, the Company offers its advanced image quality software, Image Sentry. Payment and Remittance Processing. The Company is focused on helping clients move into the new era of remittance processing by addressing current challenges around check conversion with ACH, ARC and check truncation with Check 21. The passage of the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (“Check 21”), which facilitates check truncation by authorizing substitute checks, is expected to result in decreased demand for payment and check clearing solutions. The Company’s suite of payment processing solutions take advantage of new technology advances, such as automatic image recognition and internet accessibility, to offset labor costs, facilitate timely research and handle complex transaction variations. The payment processing technology suite includes eCap, a data capture application that automates check and list processing and the extraction of data from invoices or payment advices. PayCourier Retail is a comprehensive remittance solution for processing payment transactions, such as return documents, customer correspondences, customer envelopes and checks. PayCourier Archive is a transaction archive solution that provides long-term data and image storage for remittance processing. Infrastructure Services. The Company provides clients with worldwide system support for hardware and software products. The Company provides expertise in the installation, repair and maintenance of large mission critical computer driven electromechanical devices, such as reader/sorters and scanners, which involve imaging and paper handling. The Company employs customer service engineers located in the United States and international locations to perform such service. The Company’s maintenance contracts usually include both parts and labor, and the contracts are typically renewed for five to seven years. In addition, the Company markets a full range of consumable supplies that complement the Company’s document processing systems. Information Technology Service Management (“ITSM”). ITSM provides quality integrated support services to the evolving Information Technology industry, with focused deployment and ongoing support solutions for the original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”), Enterprise and Fortune marketplaces. ITSM provides coverage in North America and Europe with OEM partners in providing warranty and fulfillment services and related support to manufacturers of desktop/enterprise products. In addition, ITSM enters into strategic alliances with industry recognized providers of outsourcing services and system integrators, as well as individual corporate customers. These customers include defense and aerospace companies, strategic outsourcing organizations, and consumer electronics manufacturers. Information About Industry Segments Operating segments are defined as components of a company about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the company’s chief operating decision-maker, or decision-making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. In 2005, the Company reported its operations as three primary segments, Americas, EMEA, and ITSM. The operations of Americas and EMEA include manufacturing and supplies, maintenance of 4 Company and third party manufactured equipment, integrated systems, BancTec software products sold through Plexus Software (“Plexus”), a division of BancTec, and business processing outsourcing services. The ITSM operations include personal computer repair services and administration of third-party extended-service contracts. In 2003 and 2004, the Company reported its operations in three segments, U.S. Solutions (“USS”), which included all operations of Americas with the exception of Canada, International Solutions (“INTL”), which included all operations of EMEA plus Canada, and Computer and Network Services (“CNS”), which included all operations of ITSM. Note M – Business Segment Data and Note N – Geographic Operations, contained in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, include detailed financial information concerning the Company’s segments and geographic areas. The 2003 and 2004 segment information has been conformed to the 2005 presentation. Geographical Locations There are no significant risks associated with foreign operations other than the fluctuation of international currencies (in Europe), political environments and economic cycles. The Company does not currently hedge its foreign currency exposure. Note L – Geographic Operations, contained in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, includes detailed financial information concerning the Company’s geographic operations. Product Development The Company is engaged in ongoing software and hardware product development activities for both new and existing products, employing approximately 110 people for such activities as of December 31, 2005. The following table sets forth the Company’s product development expenses: For the years ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (dollars in thousands) Product Development Expenses $ 8,823 $ 7,768 $ 12,548 Percent of Total Revenue 2.6 % 2.2 % 3.3 % Current expenditures are concentrated on developing new applications for the Company’s product lines and improving and expanding existing products. The Company is currently focusing on ECM solutions and image capture solutions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s development efforts will result in successful commercial products. Many risks exist in developing new product concepts, adapting new technology and introducing new products to the market. BancTec’s Document and Content Processing business is organized around a set of high-level reusable components that form the basis of vertical solutions for specific markets. The three core modules in the eFIRST™ suite of solutions, generic capture system (eFIRST Capture), business process automation (eFIRST Process), and archiving (eFIRST Archive), can be integrated within the same environment and expanded. In addition, the Company will add key managed services capabilities to these products. eFIRST Capture captures, sorts and processes data from many types of documents, such as e-mail, web, scanned documents, faxes and web-forms, and provides real-time access to this data for subsequent use. eFIRST Process provides a technology platform and user tools to construct workflows, data views, user environments and access permission models that draw in existing systems and people to automate business processes. eFIRST Archive addresses the secure, structured storage and future retrieval of data. 5 Image Capture. In 2006, the Company plans to continue developing options for the DocuScan 9000 system and make strategic market-based investments in the E-Series and X-Series transports. All other products are now effectively in a sustaining mode only of development. Sales and Distribution The Company primarily relies on its internal sales force. BancTec’s distribution strategy is to employ multiple delivery channels to achieve the widest possible distribution. The Company’s products are sold to end-users, distributors, OEMs, value-added resellers and systems integrators. International sales are subject to various risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, import controls and the need for export licenses. Customer Diversification For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, Dell, accounted for 19.7%, 17.4%, and 15.7%, respectively, of the total revenue of the Company. The Company’s ten largest customers accounted for 45.0%, 44.3%, and 42.7%, of the Company’s revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 respectively. Competition In marketing its products and services, the Company encounters aggressive competition from a wide variety of companies, some of which have substantially greater resources than BancTec. The Company believes that functionality, performance, quality, service and price are important competitive factors in the markets in which it operates. Generally, the Company emphasizes industry knowledge, unique product features, flexibility, quality and service to configure unique systems from standard components in its competitive efforts. While the Company believes that its offerings compete favorably based on each of these elements, the Company could be adversely affected if its competitors introduce innovative or technologically superior solutions or offer their products at significantly lower prices than the Company. No assurance can be given that the Company will have the resources, marketing and service capability, or technological knowledge to continue to compete successfully. Backlog The Company believes that backlog is not a meaningful indicator in understanding BancTec’s business nor a meaningful indicator of future business prospects due to the large volume of products delivered from shelf inventories and the relative portion of net revenue related to the Company’s services businesses. In addition, any backlog information would exclude ITSM contracts, recurring hardware and software maintenance contracts, and contracts for sales of supplies. Further, the Company’s backlog is subject to fluctuation due to various factors, including the size and timing of orders for the Company’s products and exchange rate fluctuations, and accordingly, is not necessarily indicative of the level of future revenue. Manufacturing - Suppliers The Company’s hardware and systems solutions are assembled using various purchased components such as PC monitors, minicomputers, encoders, communications equipment and other electronic devices. Certain products are purchased from sole source suppliers. The Company generally has contracts with these suppliers that are renewed periodically. The Company has not experienced, nor does it foresee, any significant difficulty in obtaining necessary components or subassemblies; however, if the supply of certain components or subassemblies was interrupted without sufficient notice, the result could be an interruption of product deliveries. Patents The Company owns numerous U.S. and foreign patents and holds licenses under numerous patents owned by others. The Company also owns a number of registered and common-law trademarks in the U.S. and other countries relating to the Company’s trade names and product names. The validity of any patents issued, or that may be issued, to the Company may be challenged by others and the Company could encounter legal difficulties in enforcing its patent rights against infringement. In addition, there can be no assurance that other technology cannot or will not be developed, or that patents will not be obtained by others, that would render the Company’s patents obsolete. 6 Employees At December 31, 2005, the Company employed approximately 2,750 full-time employees. None of the Company’s employees is represented by a labor union. The Company has never experienced a work stoppage. Website Access to BancTec’s Reports BancTec’s internet website address is www.banctec.com. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) are available free of charge through our website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Information provided by the Company in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include “forward-looking” information, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “PSLRA”). All statements other than statements of historical fact could be deemed forward-looking statements. The Company cautions investors that actual results or business conditions may differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking statements as a result of numerous factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changes in assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated results or changes to future operating results over time. The following is a description of some of the important factors that may cause the actual results of the Company’s operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. Business and Economic Conditions The Company’s business partially depends on business conditions in certain industries. The Company’s sales are concentrated to businesses in industries involving high volume transaction processing including banking, financial services, insurance, health care and high technology, and to governmental agencies. Business or economic conditions that cause customers in these industries to reduce or delay their investments in document processing products and solutions, such as those offered by the Company, could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including its business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. Delays or reductions in technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for the Company’s products and services, and consequently on the Company. Technological Changes and Product Transitions The Company’s industry is characterized by continuing improvement in technology, which results in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics. The Company must incorporate these new technologies into its products and solutions in order to remain competitive. The Company may not be able to continue to manage technological transitions. A failure on the part of the Company to effectively manage these transitions of its product lines to new technologies on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect, specifically reductions in sales, on the Company. In addition, the Company’s business depends on technology trends in its customers’ businesses. Many of the Company’s traditional products depend on the efficient handling of paper-based transactions. To the extent that technological changes impact the future volume of paper transactions, the Company’s traditional business may be adversely impacted. Dependence on Suppliers The Company’s hardware products depend on the quality of components that are procured from third-party suppliers. Reliance on suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several risks, including the possibility of defective parts (which can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of the Company’s products), a shortage of components and reduced control over delivery schedules (which can adversely affect the Company’s manufacturing efficiencies) and increases in component costs (which can adversely affect the Company’s profitability). The Company has several single-sourced supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. If these sources are unable to provide timely and reliable supply, the Company could experience manufacturing interruptions, delays or inefficiencies, adversely affecting its results of operations. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could affect operating results adversely. 7 Indebtedness and Impact on Operating Results As a result of the Company’s high debt to equity ratio, the Company is required to devote significant cash to debt service. This limits the Company’s future operating flexibility and could make the Company more vulnerable to a downturn in its operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions. International Activities The Company’s international operations are a significant part of the Company’s business. The success and profitability of international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, such as economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries) and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which products are sold. Any unfavorable change in one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Fluctuations in Operating Results The Company’s operating results may fluctuate from period to period and will depend on numerous factors, including the following: customer demand and market acceptance of the Company’s products and solutions, new product introductions, product obsolescence, varying product mix, foreign-currency exchange rates, competition and other factors. The Company’s business is sensitive to the spending patterns of its customers, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control. In addition, recent laws governing check truncation could reduce the demand for the Company’s payment products. Any unfavorable change in one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Product Development Activities The strength of the Company’s overall business depends in part on the Company’s ability to develop products and solutions based on new or evolving technology and the market’s acceptance of those products. There can be no assurance that the Company’s product development activities will be successful, that new technologies will be available to the Company, that the Company will be able to deliver commercial quantities of new products in a timely manner, that those products will adhere to generally accepted industry standards or that products will achieve market acceptance. Many of the Company’s customers use its products in highly regulated or technologically demanding industries. As a result of products introduced by the Company’s competitors, generally accepted industry standards can change rapidly in ways that are beyond the control of the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 