RISK FACTORS Without obtaining adequate capital funding, Access may not be able to continue as a going concern. The report of Access’ independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 contained a fourth explanatory paragraph to reflect its significant doubt about Access’ ability to continue as a going concern as a result of Access’ history of losses and Access’ liquidity position. If Access is unable to obtain adequate capital funding in the future, Access may not be able to continue as a going concern, which would have an adverse effect on Access’ business and operations, and investors’ investment in Access may decline. 18 Access has experienced a history of losses, Access expects to incur future losses and Access may be unable to obtain necessary additional capital to fund operations in the future. Access has recorded minimal revenue to date and has incurred an accumulated deficit of approximately $114.3 million through December 31, 2007. Net losses for the years ended 2007 and 2006 were $36.7 million and $12.9 million, respectively. Access’ losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development activities related to Access’ efforts to develop clinical drug candidates and from the associated administrative costs. Access expects to incur additional operating losses over the next several years. Access also expects cumulative losses to increase if Access expands research and development efforts and preclinical and clinical trials. Access’ net cash burn rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 was approximately $475,000 per month. Access projects its net cash burn rate from operations for the next 15 months to be approximately $450,000 per month. Capital expenditures are forecasted to be minor for the next 15 months. Access requires substantial capital for its development programs and operating expenses, to pursue regulatory clearances and to prosecute and defend its intellectual property rights. Access believes that its existing capital resources, interest income, product sales, royalties and revenue from possible licensing agreements and collaborative agreements will be sufficient to fund its currently expected operating expenses and capital requirements into the second quarter of 2009. Access will need to raise substantial additional capital to support its ongoing operations. If Access does raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders would result and future investors may be granted rights superior to those of existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available to Access through additional equity offerings, Access may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of its research and development programs or to obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require Access to issue additional equity securities or to relinquish rights to certain technologies or drug candidates that Access would not otherwise issue or relinquish in order to continue independent operations. Access has issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock with rights and preferences superior to those of its common stock. The issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock grants the holders of such preferred stock anti-dilution, dividend and liquidations rights that are superior to those held by the holders of our common stock. Should Access issue additional shares of common stock for a price below $3.00 per share, the conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be lowered to the lowest issue price below $3.00 per share which will have the effect of diluting the holders of our common stock. Access does not have operating revenue and it may never attain profitability. To date, Access has funded its operations primarily through private sales of common stock, preferred stock and convertible notes. Contract research payments and licensing fees from corporate alliances and mergers have also provided funding for its operations. Its ability to achieve significant revenue or profitability depends upon its ability to successfully complete the development of drug candidates, to develop and obtain patent protection and regulatory approvals for Access’ drug candidates and to manufacture and commercialize the resulting drugs. Access sold its only revenue producing assets to Uluru, Inc. in October 2005. Access is not expecting any revenues in the short-term from its other assets. Furthermore, Access may not be able to ever successfully identify, develop, commercialize, patent, manufacture, obtain required regulatory approvals and market any additional products. Moreover, even if Access does identify, develop, commercialize, patent, manufacture, and obtain required regulatory approvals to market additional products, Access may not generate revenues or royalties from commercial sales of these products for a significant number of years, if at all. Therefore, its proposed operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise. In the next few years, its revenues may be limited to minimal product sales and royalties, any amounts that Access receives under strategic partnerships and research or drug development collaborations that Access may establish and, as a result, Access may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability in the future or to achieve significant revenues in order to fund its operations. 19 Although Access expects that the acquisition of Somanta will result in benefits to the combined company the combined company may not realize those benefits because of integration and other challenges. Access’ ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of Access to integrate the business of Somanta with the business of Access. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies, and may not result in the full benefits expected by Access and Somanta. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • retaining key employees; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. Access may not successfully commercialize its drug candidates. Access’ drug candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products based on new technologies, and its failure to develop safe commercially viable drugs would severely limit its ability to become profitable or to achieve significant revenues. Access may be unable to successfully commercialize Access’ drug candidates because: · some or all of its drug candidates may be found to be unsafe or ineffective or otherwise fail to meet applicable regulatory standards or receive necessary regulatory clearances; · its drug candidates, if safe and effective, may be too difficult to develop into commercially viable drugs; · it may be difficult to manufacture or market its drug candidates on a large scale; · proprietary rights of third parties may preclude it from marketing its drug candidates; and · third parties may market superior or equivalent drugs. The success of Access’ research and development activities, upon which Access primarily focuses, is uncertain. Access’ primary focus is on its research and development activities and the commercialization of compounds covered by proprietary biopharmaceutical patents and patent applications. Research and development activities, by their nature, preclude definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. Actual research and development costs, therefore, could exceed budgeted amounts and estimated time frames may require extension. Cost overruns, unanticipated regulatory delays or demands, unexpected adverse side effects or insufficient therapeutic efficacy will prevent or substantially slow Access’ research and development effort and Access’ business could ultimately suffer. Access anticipates that it will remain principally engaged in research and development activities for an indeterminate, but substantial, period of time. Access may be unable to successfully develop, market, or commercialize its products or its product candidates without establishing new relationships and maintaining current relationships. Access’ strategy for the research, development and commercialization of its potential pharmaceutical products may require it to enter into various arrangements with corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and others, in addition to its existing relationships with other parties. Specifically, Access may seek to joint venture, sublicense or enter other marketing arrangements with parties that have an established marketing capability or Access may choose to pursue the commercialization of such products on its own. Access may, however, be unable to establish such additional collaborative arrangements, license agreements, or marketing agreements as Access may deem necessary to develop, commercialize and market Access’ potential pharmaceutical products on acceptable terms. Furthermore, if Access maintains and establishes arrangements or relationships with third parties, its business may depend upon the successful performance by these third parties of their responsibilities under those arrangements and relationships. 20 Access’ ability to successfully commercialize, and market Access’ product candidates could be limited if a number of these existing relationships were terminated. Furthermore, its strategy with respect to its polymer platinate program is to enter into a licensing agreement with a pharmaceutical company pursuant to which the further costs of developing a product would be shared with its licensing partner. Although Access has had discussions with potential licensing partners with respect to its polymer platinate program, to date Access has not entered into any licensing arrangement. Access may be unable to execute its licensing strategy for polymer platinate. Access may be unable to successfully manufacture its products and its product candidates in clinical quantities or for commercial purposes without the assistance of contract manufacturers, which may be difficult for it to obtain and maintain. Access has limited experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products in clinical quantities or for commercial purposes and Access may not be able to manufacture any new pharmaceutical products that Access may develop. As a result, Access has established, and in the future intends to establish arrangements with contract manufacturers to supply sufficient quantities of products to conduct clinical trials and for the manufacture, packaging, labeling and distribution of finished pharmaceutical products if any of its potential products are approved for commercialization. If Access is unable to contract for a sufficient supply of its potential pharmaceutical products on acceptable terms, its preclinical and human clinical testing schedule may be delayed, resulting in the delay of its clinical programs and submission of product candidates for regulatory approval, which could cause its business to suffer. Its business could suffer if there are delays or difficulties in establishing relationships with manufacturers to produce, package, label and distribute its finished pharmaceutical or other medical products, if any, market introduction and subsequent sales of such products. Moreover, contract manufacturers that Access may use must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices, as required by the FDA. In this regard, the FDA will not issue a pre-market approval or product and establishment licenses, where applicable, to a manufacturing facility for the products until the manufacturing facility passes a pre-approval plant inspection. If Access is unable to obtain or retain third party manufacturing on commercially acceptable terms, Access may not be able to commercialize its products as planned. Its potential dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of its products may adversely affect its ability to generate profits or acceptable profit margins and its ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. ProLindac™ is manufactured by third parties for Access’ Phase 2 clinical trials. Manufacturing is ongoing for the current clinical trials. Certain manufacturing steps are conducted by the Company to enable significant cost savings to be realized. Access is subject to extensive governmental regulation which increases its cost of doing business and may affect its ability to commercialize any new products that Access may develop. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the introduction of pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory, preclinical and clinical testing procedures and other costly and time-consuming procedures to establish its safety and efficacy. All of its drugs and drug candidates require receipt and maintenance of governmental approvals for commercialization. Preclinical and clinical trials and manufacturing of its drug candidates will be subject to the rigorous testing and approval processes of the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. The status of Access’ principal products is as follows: · A mucoadhesive liquid technology product, MuGard™, has received marketing approval by the FDA. · ProLindac™ is currently in a Phase 2 trial in Europe. · ProLindac™ has been approved for an additional Phase 1 trial in the US by the FDA. · Phenylbutrate is in planning stage for a Phase 2 trial in the United States. · Cobalamin™ mediated delivery technology is currently in the pre-clinical phase. · Angiolix® is currently in the pre-clinical phase. · Prodrax® is currently in the pre-clinical phase. · Alchemix® is currently in the pre-clinical phase. · Access also has other products in the preclinical phase. 21 Due to the time consuming and uncertain nature of the drug candidate development process and the governmental approval process described above, Access cannot assure you when Access, independently or with its collaborative partners, might submit a NDA, for FDA or other regulatory review. Government regulation also affects the manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Government regulations may delay marketing of Access’ potential drugs for a considerable or indefinite period of time, impose costly procedural requirements upon its activities and furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies or companies more experienced in regulatory affairs. Delays in obtaining governmental regulatory approval could adversely affect Access’ marketing as well as its ability to generate significant revenues from commercial sales. Access’ drug candidates may not receive FDA or other regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, if regulatory approval of a drug candidate is granted, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which such drug may be marketed. Even if Access obtains initial regulatory approvals for its drug candidates, Access’ drugs and its manufacturing facilities would be subject to continual review and periodic inspection, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the marketing or manufacture of such drug, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. The FDA and other regulatory authorities stringently apply regulatory standards and failure to comply with regulatory standards can, among other things, result in fines, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The uncertainty associated with preclinical and clinical testing may affect Access’ ability to successfully commercialize new products. Before Access can obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of its potential drugs, the drug candidates will be subject to extensive preclinical and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Preclinical or clinical trials of any of its future drug candidates may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such drug candidates at all or to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. In this regard, for example, adverse side effects can occur during the clinical testing of a new drug on humans which may delay ultimate FDA approval or even lead it to terminate its efforts to develop the drug for commercial use. Companies in the biotechnology industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after demonstrating promising results in earlier trials. In particular, polymer platinate has taken longer to progress through clinical trials than originally planned. This extra time has not been related to concerns of the formulations but rather due to the lengthy regulatory process. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a drug candidate under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the drug candidate. A delay or failure to receive regulatory approval for any of Access’ drug candidates could prevent Access from successfully commercializing such candidates and Access could incur substantial additional expenses in its attempts to further develop such candidates and obtain future regulatory approval. Access may incur substantial product liability expenses due to the use or misuse of its products for which Access may be unable to obtain insurance coverage. Access’ business exposes it to potential liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These risks will expand with respect to its drug candidates, if any, that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale and Access may face substantial liability for damages in the event of adverse side effects or product defects identified with any of its products that are used in clinical tests or marketed to the public. Access generally procures product liability insurance for drug candidates that are undergoing human clinical trials. Product liability insurance for the biotechnology industry is generally expensive, if available at all, and as a result, Access may be unable to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in a sufficient amount in the future, if at all. Access may be unable to satisfy any claims for which Access may be held liable as a result of the use or misuse of products which Access has developed, manufactured or sold and any such product liability claim could adversely affect its business, operating results or financial condition. 22 Access may incur significant liabilities if it fails to comply with stringent environmental regulations or if Access did not comply with these regulations in the past. Access’ research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. Access is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such material and certain waste products. Although Access believes that its activities and its safety procedures for storing, using, handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such accident, Access could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed its resources. Intense competition may limit Access’ ability to successfully develop and market commercial products. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Access’ competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. The following products may compete with polymer platinate: • Cisplatin, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, the originator of the drug, and several generic manufacturers; • Carboplatin, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb in the US; and • Oxaliplatin, marketed exclusively by Sanofi-Aventis. The following companies are working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with Access’ polymer platinate: • Antigenics and Regulon are developing liposomal platinum formulations; • Spectrum Pharmaceuticals and GPC Biotech are developing oral platinum formulations; • Poniard Pharmaceuticals is developing both i.v. and oral platinum formulations; • Nanocarrier and Debio are developing micellar nanoparticle platinum formulations; and • American Pharmaceutical Partners, Cell Therapeutics, Daiichi, and Enzon are developing alternate drugs in combination with polymers and other drug delivery systems Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with Access’ vitamin mediated drug delivery system are Bristol-Myers Squibb, Centocor (acquired by Johnson & Johnson), Endocyte, GlaxoSmithKline, Imclone and Xoma which are developing targeted monoclonal antibody therapy. Amgen, Carrington Laboratories, CuraGen Corporation, Cytogen Corporation, Endo Pharmaceuticals, MGI Pharma, Nuvelo, Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals are developing products to treat mucositis that may compete with Access’ mucoadhesive liquid technology. BioDelivery Sciences International, Biovail Corporation, Cellgate, CIMA Labs, Inc., Cytogen Corporation, Depomed Inc., Emisphere Technologies, Inc., Eurand, Flamel Technologies, Nobex and Xenoport are developing products which compete with Access’ oral drug delivery system. Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with Access’ Sodium Phenylbutyrate are Medicis Pharmaceuticals currently sells Sodium Phenylbutyrate (Buphenyl ®) for the treatment of a urea cycle disorder, hyperuremia. We are aware of numerous products in development for brain cancers. We are aware of several products being developed by academic and commercial organizations targeting glioblastoma. We are targeting a propriety gene product which is expressed by cancerous tumors. We are not aware of any other organization developing similar products targeting this type of protein. Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with Access’ Prodrax are Novocea, Inc., which has exclusively licensed from KuDOS Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Astra Zeneca, a small molecule prodrug that is selectively activated by low oxygen tumors that is similar to our Prodrax, and Novocea is developing this small molecule prodrug in a similar fashion to Prodrax. 23 We are not aware of any other organization developing a drug similar to Alchemix. Several groups are developing agents against p-glycoprotein, which is only one of the identified mechanisms of drug resistance within cells, and other groups are developing agents that have the potential to become chemosensitisers, which means they will make cancer cells more sensitive to the effects of chemotherapy. Many of these competitors have and employ greater financial and other resources, including larger research and development, marketing and manufacturing organizations. As a result, Access’ competitors may successfully develop technologies and drugs that are more effective or less costly than any that Access is developing or which would render Access’ technology and future products obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, some of Access’ competitors have greater experience than Access does in conducting preclinical and clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Accordingly, Access’ competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than Access does. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their drugs before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage. Drugs resulting from Access’ research and development efforts or from its joint efforts with collaborative partners therefore may not be commercially competitive with its competitors' existing products or products under development. Access depends on licenses from third parties and the maintenance of its licenses are necessary for its success. Access, as a result of its acquisition of Somanta Pharmaceuticals, Inc., has obtained rights to some product candidates through license agreements with various third party licensors as follows: • Exclusive Patent and Know-how Sub-license Agreement between Somanta and Immunodex, Inc. dated August 18, 2005, as amended; • Patent and Know-how Assignment and License Agreement between Somanta and De Montfort University dated March 20, 2003; • Patent and Know-how Assignment and License Option Agreement between Somanta and The School of Pharmacy, University of London dated March 16, 2004, as amended on September 21, 2005; and • The Phenylbutyrate Co-Development and Sublicense Agreement between Somanta and Virium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated February 16, 2005, as amended. Access is dependent upon these licenses for its rights to develop and commercialize its product candidates. While Access believes it is in compliance with its obligations under the licenses, certain licenses may be terminated or converted to non-exclusive licenses by the licensor if Access breaches the terms of the license. Access cannot guarantee you that the licenses will not be terminated or converted in the future. While Access expects that it will be able to continue to identify licensable product candidates or research suitable for licensing and commercialization by it, there can be no assurance that this will occur. For example, Access is in discussions with the National Institutes of Health to obtain licenses to certain patents held by them that will be necessary for the manufacture of its product candidate Angiolix. Unless Access obtains licenses on terms that are acceptable to it, Access may not be able to manufacture and obtain product registrations on Angiolix. On December 5, 2006, NIH provided Access with proposed terms for a non-exclusive license. Access is in discussion with NIH on those proposed terms and conditions. On May 15, 2007, NIH terminated Access’ non-exclusive license application since it had not accepted the terms and had not executed the proposed license agreement. 24 Access’ ability to successfully develop and commercialize its drug candidates will substantially depend upon the availability of reimbursement funds for the costs of the resulting drugs and related treatments. The successful commercialization of, and the interest of potential collaborative partners to invest in the development of its drug candidates, may depend substantially upon reimbursement of the costs of the resulting drugs and related treatments at acceptable levels from government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, including health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. Limited reimbursement for the cost of any drugs that Access develops may reduce the demand for, or price of such drugs, which would hamper its ability to obtain collaborative partners to commercialize its drugs, or to obtain a sufficient financial return on its own manufacture and commercialization of any future drugs. The market may not accept any pharmaceutical products that Access successfully develops. The drugs that Access is attempting to develop may compete with a number of well-established drugs manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any drugs developed by it will depend on a number of factors, including the establishment and demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of its drug candidates, the potential advantage of its drug candidates over existing therapies and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. Physicians, patients or the medical community in general may not accept or use any drugs that Access may develop independently or with its collaborative partners and if they do not, its business could suffer. Trends toward managed health care and downward price pressures on medical products and services may limit its ability to profitably sell any drugs that Access may develop. Lower prices for pharmaceutical products may result from: · third-party payers' increasing challenges to the prices charged for medical products and services; · the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of HMOs and similar organizations that can control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products; and · legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, including practice protocols and guidelines and clinical pathways, and the effect of any healthcare reform, could limit Access’ ability to profitably sell any drugs that Access may successfully develop. Moreover, any future legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement, may cause its business to suffer. Access may not be successful in protecting its intellectual property and proprietary rights. Access’ success depends, in part, on its ability to obtain U.S. and foreign patent protection for its drug candidates and processes, preserve its trade secrets and operate its business without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions and the scope of claims made under such patents are still developing and there is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The patent position of a biotechnology firm is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Access cannot assure you that any existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, it will not subsequently be challenged, infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. As a result, although Access, together with its subsidiaries, are either the owner or licensee to 17 U.S. patents and to 9 U.S. patent applications now pending, and 5 European patents and 13 European patent applications, Access cannot assure you that any additional patents will issue from any of the patent applications owned by, or licensed to, it. Furthermore, any rights that Access may have under issued patents may not provide it with significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially viable. 25 Access’ patents for the following technologies expire in the years and during the date ranges indicated below: · Mucoadhesive technology in 2021, · ProLindac™ in 2021, · Phenylbutyrate between 2011 and 2016, · Angiolix® in 2015, · Alchemix® in 2015, · Cobalamin mediated technology between 2008 and 2019 In addition to issued patents, Access has a number of pending patent applications. If issued, the patents underlying theses applications could extend the patent life of its technologies beyond the dates listed above. Patents may have been granted to third parties or may be granted covering products or processes that are necessary or useful to the development of Access’ drug candidates. If Access’ drug candidates or processes are found to infringe upon the patents or otherwise impermissibly utilize the intellectual property of others, Access’ development, manufacture and sale of such drug candidates could be severely restricted or prohibited. In such event, Access may be required to obtain licenses from third parties to utilize the patents or proprietary rights of others. Access cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If Access becomes involved in litigation regarding its intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others, the potential cost of such litigation, regardless of the strength of its legal position, and the potential damages that Access could be required to pay could be substantial. Access’ business could suffer if Access loses the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. Access is highly dependent upon the efforts of its senior management and scientific team, including its President and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey B. Davis. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could delay or prevent the achievement of its research, development, marketing, or product commercialization objectives. While Access has employment agreements with Jeffrey B. Davis, David P. Nowotnik, PhD its Senior Vice President Research and Development, and Stephen B. Thompson, its Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, their employment may be terminated by them or Access at any time. Mr. Davis’, Dr. Nowotnik's and Mr. Thompson’s agreements expire within one year and are extendable each year on the anniversary date. Access does not have employment contracts with its other key personnel. Access does not maintain any "key-man" insurance policies on any of its key employees and Access does not intend to obtain such insurance. In addition, due to the specialized scientific nature of its business, Access is highly dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. In view of the stage of its development and its research and development programs, Access has restricted its hiring to research scientists and a small administrative staff and Access has made only limited investments in manufacturing, production, sales or regulatory compliance resources. There is intense competition among major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of Access’ activities, however, and Access may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these personnel. An investment in Access’ common stock may be less attractive because it is not traded on a recognized public market. Access’ common stock has traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB since June 5, 2006. From February 1, 2006 until June 5, 2006 Access traded on the “Pink Sheets” after its common stock was de-listed from trading on AMEX. The OTCBB and Pink Sheets are viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the value of its common stock. 26 Access’ common stock is subject to Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell its common stock to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" (as defined in Rule 501(c) of the Securities Act). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule adversely affects the ability of broker-dealers to sell Access’ common stock and purchasers of its common stock to sell their shares of Access’ common stock. Additionally, Access’ common stock is subject to SEC regulations applicable to "penny stock." Penny stock includes any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule proscribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered by a broker-dealer to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for Access’ common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock that disclose recent price information for the penny stock and information of the limited market for penny stocks. These requirements adversely affect the market liquidity of Access’ common stock. Ownership of Access’ shares is concentrated in the hands of a few investors which could limit the ability of Access’ other stockholders to influence the direction of the company. As calculated by the SEC rules of beneficial ownership, SCO Capital Partners LLC and affiliates, Larry N. Feinberg (Oracle Partners LP, Oracle Institutional Partners LP and Oracle Investment Management Inc.), Lake End Capital LLC, Perceptive Life Sciences Master Fund Ltd and Midsummer Investment, Ltd. each beneficially owned approximately 69.8%, 31.7%, 21.7%, 15.1% and 11.8%, respectively, of Access’ common stock as of March 31, 2008. Accordingly, they collectively may have the ability to significantly influence or determine the election of all of Access’ directors or the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of Access’ other stockholders. Access may be required to pay liquidated damages to certain investors if it does not maintain an effective registration statement relating to common stock issuable upon conversion of Series A Preferred stock or upon exercise of certain warrants. Pursuant to issuing Series A Preferred Stock and warrants, Access entered into an Investor Rights Agreement with the purchasers of Series A Preferred Stock. The Investor Rights Agreement requires, among other things, that Access maintain an effective registration statement for common stock issuable upon conversion of Series A Preferred Stock or upon exercise of certain warrants. If Access fails to maintain such an effective registration statement it may be required to pay liquidated damages to the holders of such Series A Preferred Stock and warrants for the period of time in which an effective registration statement was not in place. Provisions of Access’ charter documents could discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit its stockholders and may have the effect of entrenching, and making it difficult to remove, management. Provisions of Access’ Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws and Stockholders Rights Plan may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change in control would benefit Access stockholders. In particular, shares of Access preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as Access’ Board of Directors may determine, including, for example, rights to convert into Access common stock. The rights of the holders of Access common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of Access’ preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of Access preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Access. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of Access common stock and discourage these investors from acquiring a majority of Access common stock. Further, the existence of these corporate governance provisions could have the effect of entrenching management and making it more difficult to change Access’ management. Substantial sales of Access common stock could lower its stock price. The market price for Access common stock could drop as a result of sales of a large number of its presently outstanding shares or shares that Access may issue or be obligated to issue in the future. All of the 5,623,781 shares of Access common stock that are outstanding as of March 31, 2008, are unrestricted and freely tradable or tradable pursuant to a resale registration statement or under Rule 144 of the Securities Act or are covered by a registration rights agreement. 27 Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on Access’ business. Effective internal controls are necessary for Access to provide reliable financial reports. If Access cannot provide reliable financial reports, Access’ operating results could be harmed. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. While Access continues to evaluate and improve its internal controls, Access cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that Access implements and maintains adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm its operating results or cause Access to fail to meet its reporting obligations. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in Access’ reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on its stock price. Future sales by our stockholders may adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Sales of our common stock in the public market following this offering could lower the market price of our common stock. Sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems acceptable or at all. Of the 5,623,781 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 31, 2008, 5,623,781 shares are, or will be, freely tradable without restriction, unless held by our “affiliates.” Some of these shares may be resold under Rule 144. The sale of the 11,666,195 shares issuable upon conversion of our preferred stock and 9,269,734 shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants could also lower the market price of our common stock. ITEM 