ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to Peoples’ business. This should not be viewed as an all-inclusive list of risks or presenting the risk factors listed in any particular order. · Current conditions in the financial markets, the real estate markets and economic conditions generally may adversely affect Peoples’ business. Beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing into 2010, negative developments in the capital markets resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and an economic downturn. The housing market declined, resulting in decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures. The credit performance of mortgage and construction loans resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. The declines in the performance and value of mortgage assets encompassed all mortgage and real estate asset types, leveraged bank loans and nearly all other asset classes, including equity securities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital or to merge with larger and stronger institutions. Some financial institutions have failed. 14 Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by some financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This tightening of credit has led to increased loan delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly, and access to deposits or borrowed funds has decreased for many institutions. It has also become more difficult to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in Peoples’ loan portfolio. The United States remains in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced, and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. A worsening of current conditions would likely adversely affect Peoples’ business and results of operations, as well as those of its customers. As a result, Peoples may experience increased foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. · Enactment of new legislation and increased regulatory oversight may significantly affect Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. The Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC and others have taken numerous actions to address the current liquidity and credit situation in the financial markets. These measures include actions to encourage loan restructuring and modification for homeowners; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; and coordinated efforts to address liquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The long-term effect of actions already taken as well as new legislation is unknown. Continued or renewed instability in the financial markets could weaken public confidence in financial institutions and adversely affect Peoples’ ability to attract and retain new customers. Further, the U.S. Congress is considering several legislative proposals that, if enacted, could cause Peoples to make adverse changes to its business practices related to loans and deposits. Specifically, proposed legislation would alter contractual rights and obligations of both Peoples and its customers under existing loan contracts by reducing amounts customers are required to pay or limiting Peoples’ ability to foreclose on collateral. Other legislation would impact how Peoples assesses certain fees on deposit accounts, such as overdraft fees. There can be no assurance that future legislation will not significantly impact Peoples’ ability to collect on its current loans and/or foreclose on collateral or require changes to business practices that would reduce the amount of revenue recognized in future periods. · Adverse changes in national and/or local economic and political conditions could impact Peoples’ earnings and financial condition. Peoples’ success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond Peoples’ control may adversely affect its asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. Because a significant amount of Peoples’ loans are secured by either commercial or residential real estate, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and Peoples’ ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of Peoples’ borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on Peoples’ earnings and cash flows. The local economies of the majority of Peoples’ market area historically have been less robust than the economy of the nation as a whole and typically are not subject to the same fluctuations as the national economy. Adverse economic conditions in Peoples’ market area, including the loss of certain significant employers, could reduce Peoples’ growth rate, affect borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and generally affect Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, continued declines in real estate values could cause additional loans to become under-collateralized and require further increases to the allowance for loan losses. · Adverse changes in the financial markets may adversely impact Peoples’ results of operations. The global financial markets have experienced increased volatility and an overall loss of investor confidence for the last two years. While Peoples generally invests in securities with limited credit risk, certain investment securities Peoples hold possess higher credit risk since they represent beneficial interests in structured investments collateralized by residential mortgages, debt obligations and other similar asset-backed assets. Regardless of the level of credit risk, all investment securities are subject to changes in market value due to changing interest rates and implied credit spreads. 15 Over the last few years, structured investments, like Peoples’ collateralized debt obligations, have been subject to significant market volatility due to the uncertainty of the credit ratings, deterioration in credit losses occurring within certain types of residential mortgages, changes in prepayments of the underlying collateral and the lack of transparency related to the investment structures and the collateral underlying the structured investment vehicles. These conditions have resulted in Peoples’ recognizing impairment charges on certain investment securities during 2007, 2008 and 2009. Given recent market conditions and changing economic factors, Peoples may be required to recognize additional impairment changes on securities held in its investment portfolio in the future. · Recent levels of market volatility are unprecedented. For more than two years, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility. In some cases, share prices and credit availability for certain issuers have declined without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, Peoples may experience a material adverse effect on its ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. · Defaults by larger financial institutions could adversely affect Peoples’ business, earnings and financial condition. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between and among the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This “systemic risk” may adversely affect Peoples’ business. Additionally, Peoples’ investment portfolio continues to include investments in individual bank-issued trust preferred securities and collateralized debt obligations, comprised mostly of bank-issued trust preferred securities. Under current market conditions, the fair value of these security types is based predominately on the present value of cash flows expected to be received in future periods. Significant defaults by other financial institutions could adversely affect conditions within the financial services industry, thereby causing investors to require higher rates of return for these investments. These factors could cause Peoples to recognize additional impairment losses on its investment in bank-issued trust preferred securities in future periods. · Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse affect on Peoples’ earnings. The number of bank failures increased significantly in 2008 and 2009, which dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund. Also during this period, the FDIC and U.S. Congress have instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and non-interest-bearing transactional accounts are fully insured (unlimited coverage). These actions have placed additional stress on the Deposit Insurance Funds. On January 1, 2014, the standard insurance amount will return to $100,000 per depositor for all account categories except Individual Retirement Accounts and certain other retirement accounts, which will remain at $250,000 per depositor. Since late 2008, the FDIC has taken various actions intended to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund. These actions included increasing assessment rates for all insured institutions, requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels, imposing a special assessment on all insured depository institutions for the second quarter of 2009 and requiring insured depository institutions to prepay their quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and full years 2010 through 2012 on December 29, 2009. In January 2010, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rule-making asking for comments on how the FDIC’s risk-based deposit insurance assessment system could be changed to include the risks of certain employee compensation as criteria in the assessment system. Peoples has limited ability to control the amount of premiums it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures, the FDIC may be required to increase assessment rates from the recently increased levels or take actions similar to those taken during 2009. As a result, insured depository institutions, including Peoples, may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums in future periods. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect Peoples’ results of operations and ability to continue to pay dividends on its common shares at the current rate or at all. · The Series A Preferred Shares impact net income available to Peoples’ common shareholders, and the Warrant may be dilutive to Peoples’ common shareholders. The additional capital Peoples raised through its participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program has provided further funding for its lending activities. Management also believes this capital has improved investor perceptions with regard to Peoples’ financial position. However, such capital has increased Peoples’ equity and the number of dilutive outstanding common shares. In addition, the dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Series A Preferred Shares reduces the net income available to Peoples’ common shareholders and earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of Peoples’ liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of Peoples’ existing common shareholders will be diluted to the extent the Warrant Peoples issued to the U.S. Treasury is exercised. Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the common shares it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any common shares acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this agreement. 16 · If Peoples is unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares after five years, the cost of this capital will increase substantially. If Peoples is unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on Peoples’ financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares could have a material negative effect on Peoples’ liquidity. · Changes in interest rates may adversely affect Peoples’ profitability. Peoples’ earnings are dependent to a significant degree on net interest income, which is the amount by which interest income exceeds interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Peoples’ control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Peoples receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Peoples’ ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Peoples’ financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of Peoples’ mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, Peoples’ net interest income and, therefore, earnings could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Management uses various measures to monitor interest rate risk and believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Peoples’ results of operations. Management also periodically adjusts the mix of assets and liabilities to manage interest rate risk. However, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. See the sections captioned “Interest Income and Expense” and “Interest Rate Sensitivity and Liquidity” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for further discussion related to Peoples’ interest rate risk. · Peoples’ exposure to credit risk could adversely affect Peoples’ earnings and financial condition. There are certain risks inherent in making loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks inherent in dealing with borrowers and, in the case of loans secured by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Commercial and commercial real estate loans comprise a significant portion of Peoples’ loan portfolio. Commercial loans generally are viewed as having a higher credit risk than residential real estate or consumer loans because they usually involve larger loan balances to a single borrower and are more susceptible to a risk of default during an economic downturn. Since Peoples’ loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, and ultimately could have a material adverse effect on Peoples’ earnings and financial condition. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, Peoples may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. Peoples may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, Peoples may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“US GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Peoples may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Peoples’ financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that Peoples relies on financial statements that do not comply with US GAAP or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading. · Peoples’ allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. Peoples maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan losses based on management’s quarterly analysis of the loan portfolio. The determination of the allowance for loan losses requires management to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of Peoples’ loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Additional information regarding Peoples’ allowance for loan losses methodology and the sensitivity of the estimates can be found the discussion of Peoples’ “Critical Accounting Policies” included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 17 Peoples’ estimation of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond Peoples’ control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Peoples cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If Peoples’ assumptions prove to be incorrect, Peoples’ allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio, resulting in additions which could have a material adverse impact on Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Peoples’ allowance for loan losses as part of their examination process and may require management to increase the allowance or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the provision for loan losses would decrease Peoples’ pretax and net income. · Changes in accounting standards, policies, estimates or procedures may impact Peoples’ reported financial condition or results of operations. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Peoples’ Consolidated Financial Statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how Peoples records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Peoples could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, no assurance can be given that Peoples will not be required to recognize significant, unexpected losses due to actual results varying materially from management’s estimates. Additional information regarding Peoples’ critical accounting policies and the sensitivity of estimates can be found in the section captioned “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. · The financial services industry is very competitive. Peoples experiences significant competition in originating loans, principally from other commercial banks, savings associations and credit unions. Several of Peoples’ competitors have greater resources, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. This competition could reduce Peoples’ net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that Peoples originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans. Moreover, technology and other changes are allowing businesses and individuals to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that in the past had been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating the use of banks to complete financial transactions could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. For a more complete discussion of Peoples’ competitive environment, see “Competition” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. If Peoples is unable to compete effectively, Peoples would lose market share, which could reduce income generated from deposits, loans and other products. · Peoples’ ability to pay dividends is limited. Peoples is a separate and distinct legal entity from Peoples’ subsidiaries. Peoples receives nearly all of its revenue from dividends from Peoples Bank, which are limited by federal banking laws and regulations. These dividends also serve as the primary source of funds to pay dividends on Peoples’ common shares. The inability of Peoples Bank to pay sufficient dividends to Peoples could have a material, adverse effect on its business. In addition, Peoples’ participation in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program currently restricts the ability to increase the dividend payable to holders of common shares above $0.23 per share without prior approval of the U.S. Treasury. Further discussion of Peoples’ ability to pay dividends can be found under the captions “Supervision and Regulation – TARP Capital Purchase Program” and “Supervision and Regulation – Dividend Restrictions” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K and Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. · Government regulation significantly affects Peoples’ business. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. Peoples is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, and Peoples Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC, and secondarily the FDIC. These regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not Peoples’ common shareholders. Peoples’ non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory agencies including the SEC and state securities and insurance regulators. Regulations affecting banks and financial services businesses are undergoing continuous change, and management cannot predict the effect of those changes. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that affects Peoples and its subsidiaries. Any modifications or new laws could adversely affect Peoples’ business. Further information about government regulation of Peoples’ business can be found under the caption “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 18 Legislation has been proposed on both the federal and the state levels that could substantially increase the regulation of the financial services industry. A substantial overhaul of the regulatory system in the United States is possible within the next few years. Peoples is unable to predict the likelihood, timing or details of any of these initiatives. Any such action could affect Peoples in unpredictable ways and have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. · Peoples is subject to several restrictions on compensation paid to Peoples’ executive officers because of its participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. As a recipient of government funding under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Peoples must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA and the standards established by the Secretary of the Treasury under the ARRA. The restrictions on executive compensation under these standards are more fully described in Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption “Supervision and Regulation – TARP Capital Purchase Program.” These standards could impact Peoples’ ability to hire or retain key executives or cause Peoples to make material changes to its current compensation plans and philosophy that could result in higher compensation costs in future periods. · Peoples’ business could be adversely affected by material breaches in security of its systems. Peoples collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both us and third party service providers. Peoples has security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible. Peoples also has implemented security controls to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires Peoples’ third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain these measures will be successful. A security breach of the computer systems and release of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could negatively affect customers’ confidence in Peoples, which may cause a loss of business, and could result in Peoples’ incurring financial losses for any fraudulent transactions completed by third parties due to the security breach. · Anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control by a third party. Provisions in the Ohio General Corporation Law and Peoples’ amended articles of incorporation and code of regulations, including a staggered board and a supermajority vote requirement for significant corporate changes, could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by shareholders to remove Peoples’ Board of Directors and management more difficult. These provisions may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or change in control that might be in the best interests of Peoples’ shareholders · Peoples and its subsidiaries are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. In the normal course of business, Peoples and its subsidiaries are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding positions taken regarding their respective tax returns. State tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions, especially those positions relating to tax compliance and calculation of taxes subject to apportionment. Any challenge or examination by a tax authority may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable net worth or taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. Management believes it has taken appropriate positions on all tax returns filed, to be filed or not filed and does not anticipate any examination would have a material impact on Peoples’ Consolidated Financial Statements. However, the outcome of such examinations and ultimate resolution of any resulting assessments are inherently difficult to predict. Thus, no assurance can be given that Peoples’ tax liability for any tax year open to examination will not be different than what is reflected in Peoples’ current and historical Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information can be found in the “Critical Accounting Policies – Income Taxes” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial Condition” included in this Form 10-K. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 