ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to Peoples’ business. This should not be viewed as an all-inclusive list of risks or presenting the risk factors listed in any particular order. 14 Table of Contents · Changes in Interest Rates May Adversely Affect Peoples’ Profitability. Peoples’ earnings are dependent to a significant degree on net interest income, which is the amount by which interest income exceeds interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Peoples’ control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Peoples receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Peoples’ ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Peoples’ financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of Peoples’ mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, Peoples’ net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Management uses various measures to monitor interest rate risk and believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Peoples’ results of operations. Management also periodically adjusts the mix of assets and liabilities to manage interest rate risk. However, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. See the sections captioned “Interest Income and Expense” and “Interest Rate Sensitivity and Liquidity” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for further discussion related to Peoples’ interest rate risk. · Peoples’ Exposure to Credit Risk Could Adversely Affect Peoples’ Earnings and Financial Condition. There are certain risks inherent in making loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks inherent in dealing with borrowers and, in the case of loans secured by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Commercial and commercial real estate loans comprise a significant portion of Peoples’ loan portfolio. Commercial loans generally are viewed as having a higher credit risk than residential real estate or consumer loans because they usually involve larger loan balances to a single borrower and are more susceptible to a risk of default during an economic downturn. Since Peoples’ loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, and ultimately could have a material adverse effect on Peoples’ earnings and financial condition. · Peoples’ Allowance For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient. Peoples maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan losses based on management’s quarterly analysis of the loan portfolio. There can be no assurance on the timing or amount of actual loan losses or that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Peoples’ allowance for loan losses as part of their examination process and may require management to increase the allowance or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the provision for loan losses would decrease Peoples’ pretax and net income. · Adverse Conditions in the Real Estate Markets and General Economy May Adversely Impact Peoples’ Results of Operations. During 2008, general economic conditions throughout the United States deteriorated and unemployment increased, as business activity across a wide range of industries and regions reduced significantly from a lack of consumer spending and lack of liquidity in the credit markets. In addition, the values of nearly all asset classes, including commercial real estate, decreased significantly, which has led to many loans becoming under-collateralized. These conditions have caused many financial institutions, including Peoples, to increase their allowance for loan losses, thereby reducing earnings. The conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. The increased level of financial institution failures, or near failures, has resulted in higher default rates on securities, including bank-issued trust preferred securities, and contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties, which placed additional stress on the market and reduced investor confidence. Consequently, the cost and availability of liquidity have been adversely affected, despite significant actions by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal government. In addition, Peoples could recognize additional impairment losses on its investment in trust preferred securities should default rates increase due to adverse conditions within the financial services industry. Peoples’ success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the specific local markets in which it operates. The local economies of Peoples’ market area historically have been less robust than the economy of the nation as a whole and typically are not subject to the same fluctuations as the national economy. Adverse economic conditions in Peoples’ market area, including the loss of certain significant employers, could reduce Peoples’ growth rate, affect borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and generally affect Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, continued declines in real estate values could cause additional loans to become under-collateralized and require further increases to the allowance for loan losses. 15 Table of Contents · Adverse Changes in the Financial Markets May Adversely Impact Peoples’ Results of Operations. Over the last several months, the global financial markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Peoples generally invests in obligations of the U.S. Treasury, agencies and corporations of the U.S. government, including mortgage-backed securities, bank eligible obligations of any state or political subdivision in the U.S., and bank eligible corporate obligations, including private-label mortgage-backed securities. While most of these investments may have limited credit risk, all are subject to changes in market value due to changing interest rates and implied credit spreads. Additionally, certain investment securities held by Peoples represent beneficial interests in structured investments, which are collateralized by residential mortgages, debt obligations and other similar asset-backed assets. These structured investments are generally rated investment grade by credit rating agencies at the time of Peoples’ initial investment, although the credit ratings are subject to change due to deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral. In recent months, these types of structured investments have been subject to significant market volatility due to the uncertainty of the credit ratings, deterioration in credit losses occurring within certain types of residential mortgages, changes in prepayments of the underlying collateral and the lack of transparency related to the investment structures and the collateral underlying the structured investment vehicles, which resulted in Peoples recognizing impairment charges on certain investment securities during 2007 and 2008. Given recent market conditions and changing economic factors, Peoples may be required to recognize additional impairment charges on securities held in its investment portfolio in the future. · Changes in Accounting Standards, Policies, Estimates or Procedures May Impact Peoples’ Reported Financial Condition or Results of Operations. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Peoples’ Consolidated Financial Statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how Peoples records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Peoples could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. In addition, the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, no assurance can be given that Peoples will not be required to recognize significant, unexpected losses due to actual results varying materially from management’s estimates. Additional information regarding Peoples’ critical accounting policies and the sensitivity of estimates can be found in the section captioned “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. · Peoples May Be Named as a Defendant From Time to Time in a Variety of Litigation And Other Actions, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Peoples’ Financial Condition And Results of Operations. Peoples or one of its subsidiaries may be named as a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation arising in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. Such litigation is normally covered by errors and omissions or other appropriate insurance. However, significant litigation could cause Peoples to devote substantial time and resources to defending its business or result in judgments or settlements that exceed insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on Peoples’ financial condition and results of operation. Further, any claims asserted against Peoples, regardless of merit or eventual outcome may harm Peoples’ reputation and result in loss of business. In addition, Peoples may not be able to obtain new or different insurance coverages or adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms. · The Financial Services Industry Is Very Competitive. Peoples experiences significant competition in originating loans, principally from other commercial banks, savings associations and credit unions. Several of Peoples’ competitors have greater resources, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. This competition could reduce Peoples’ net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that it originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans. For a more complete discussion of Peoples’ competitive environment, see “Competition” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. If Peoples is unable to compete effectively, Peoples will lose market share and income from deposits, loans and other products may be reduced. 16 Table of Contents · Peoples’ Ability to Pay Dividends Is Limited. Peoples is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. Peoples receives nearly all of its revenue from dividends from Peoples Bank, which are limited by federal banking laws and regulations. These dividends also serve as the primary source of funds to pay dividends on Peoples’ Common Shares and interest and principal on Peoples’ debt. The inability of Peoples Bank to pay sufficient dividends to Peoples could have a material, adverse effect on Peoples’ business. In addition, Peoples’ participation in the U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program currently restricts the ability to increase the dividend payable to holders of Common Shares without prior approval of the U.S. Treasury. Further discussion of Peoples’ ability to pay dividends can be found under the captions “Supervision and Regulation-TARP Capital Purchase Program” and “Supervision and Regulation-Dividend Restrictions” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. · Government Regulation Significantly Affects Peoples’ Business. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. Peoples is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, and Peoples Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC, and secondarily the FDIC. These regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not Peoples’ shareholders. Peoples’ non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory agencies including the SEC and state securities and insurance regulators. Regulations affecting banks and financial services businesses are undergoing continuous change, and management cannot predict the effect of those changes. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that affects Peoples and its subsidiaries. Any modifications or new laws could adversely affect Peoples’ business. Further information about government regulation of Peoples’ business can be found under the caption “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. As a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Peoples agreed to various requirements and restrictions imposed by the U.S. Treasury on all participants, which included a provision that the U. S. Treasury could change the terms of participation at any time. Further information regarding the current requirements and restrictions imposed on Peoples can be found under the caption “Supervision and Regulation – TARP Capital Purchase Program” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. · Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives to Address Difficult Market and Economic Conditions May Not Stabilize the U. S. Banking System and May Significantly Affect Peoples’ Financial Condition, Results of Operation, Liquidity or Stock Price. In 2008 and continuing into 2009, the U.S. government and various regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board, FDIC and SEC, have undertaken numerous initiatives intended to stabilize the U.S. banking system and address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage market crisis that began in 2007. Specifically, the EESA created the Troubled Assets Relief Program (“TARP”) intended to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and each other, as well as increased federal deposit insurance coverage limits through the end of 2009. The ARRA includes a wide array of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. Other initiatives have included homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the Federal Funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guarantee program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The legislative and regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects, as asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be limited. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, Peoples’ business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. · Because of Peoples’ Participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Peoples Is Subject to Several Restrictions on Compensation Paid to Peoples’ Executive Officers. As a recipient of government funding under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Peoples must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA. These restriction are more fully described in Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption “Supervision and Regulation-TARP Capital Purchase Program”. These standards, which are more stringent than those previously proposed by the U.S. Treasury, could impact Peoples’ ability to retain key executives or cause Peoples to make material changes to its current compensation plans and philosophy that could result in higher compensation costs in future periods. It is unclear how these standards will relate to the similar standards announced by the U.S. Treasury in the guidelines it issued on February 4, 2009, or whether the standards will be considered effective immediately or only after the U.S. Treasury adopts implementing regulations. 17 Table of Contents · The Series A Preferred Shares Impact Net Income Available to Peoples’ Common Shareholders And the Warrant May Be Dilutive to Peoples’ Common Shareholders. While the additional capital Peoples raised through its participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program provides further funding to Peoples’ business and Peoples believes has improved investor perceptions with regard to Peoples’ financial position, such capital has increased Peoples’ equity and the number of dilutive outstanding Common Shares as well as Peoples’ preferred dividend requirements. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Series A Preferred Shares will reduce the net income available to holders of Peoples’ Common Shares and Peoples’ earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of Peoples’ liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of Peoples’ Common Shares will be diluted to the extent the Warrant Peoples issued to the U.S. Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the U.S. Treasury of the Series A Preferred Shares is exercised. Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the Common Shares it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any Common Shares acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. · If Peoples Is Unable To Redeem The Series A Preferred Shares After Five Years, The Cost Of This Capital To Peoples Will Increase Substantially. If Peoples is unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to Peoples will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on Peoples’ financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares could have a material negative effect on Peoples’ liquidity. · Material Breaches in Security of Peoples’ Systems May Have a Significant Effect on Peoples’ Business. Peoples collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Peoples and third party service providers. Peoples has security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible. Peoples also has implemented security controls to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. A security breach of the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers’ confidence and, thus, loss of business. · Peoples and Its Subsidiaries Are Subject to Examinations And Challenges by Tax Authorities. In the normal course of business, Peoples and its subsidiaries are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding positions taken regarding their respective tax returns. State tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions, especially those positions relating to tax compliance and calculation of taxes subject to apportionment. Any challenge or examination by a tax authority may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable net worth or taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. Management believes it has taken appropriate positions on all tax returns filed, to be filed or not filed and does not anticipate any examination would have a material impact on Peoples’ Consolidated Financial Statements. However, the outcome of such examinations and ultimate resolution of any resulting assessments are inherently difficult to predict. Thus, no assurance can be given that Peoples’ tax liability for any tax year open to examination will not be different than what is reflected in Peoples’ current and historical Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information can be found in the “Critical Accounting Policies – Income Taxes” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial Condition” included in this Form 10-K. · Anti-Takeover Provisions May Delay Or Prevent an Acquisition Or Change in Control by a Third Party. Provisions in the Ohio General Corporation Law and Peoples’ amended articles of incorporation and code of regulations, including a staggered board and a supermajority vote requirement for significant corporate changes, could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by shareholders to remove Peoples’ Board of Directors and management more difficult. These provisions may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or change in control that might be in the best interests of Peoples’ shareholders. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 