ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to Peoples’ business. This should not be viewed as an all-inclusive list or in any particular order. • Changes In Interest Rates May Adversely Affect Peoples’ Profitability. Peoples’ earnings are dependent to a significant degree on net interest income, which is the amount by which interest income exceeds interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Peoples’ control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Peoples receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Peoples’ ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Peoples’ financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of Peoples’ mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, Peoples’ net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Management uses various measures to monitor interest rate risk and believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Peoples’ results of operations. Management also periodically adjusts the mix of assets and liabilities to manage interest rate risk. However, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. See the sections captioned “Interest Income and Expense” and ”Interest Rate Risk and Liquidity” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for further discussion related to Peoples’ interest rate risk. • Peoples’ Exposure To Credit Risk Could Adversely Affect Peoples’ Earnings And Financial Condition. There are certain risks inherent in making loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks inherent in dealing with borrowers and, in the case of loans secured by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Commercial and commercial real estate loans comprise a significant portion of Peoples’ loan portfolio. Commercial loans generally are viewed as having a higher credit risk than residential real estate or consumer loans because they usually involve larger loan balances to a single borrower and are more susceptible to a risk of default during an economic downturn. Since Peoples’ loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans, and ultimately could have a material adverse effect on Peoples’ earnings and financial condition. • Peoples’ Allowance For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient. Peoples maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan losses based on management’s quarterly analysis of the loan portfolio. There can be no assurance on the timing or amount of actual loan losses or that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Peoples’ allowance for loan losses as part of their examination process and may require management to increase the allowance or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the provision for loan losses would decrease Peoples’ pretax and net income. • Adverse Economic Conditions May Adversely Impact Peoples’ Results Of Operations. Peoples’ success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the specific local markets in which it operates. The local economies of Peoples’ market area historically have been less robust than the economy of the nation as a whole and are not subject to the same fluctuations as the national economy. Adverse economic conditions in Peoples’ market area, including the loss of certain significant employers, could reduce Peoples’ growth rate, affect its borrowers' ability to repay their loans and generally affect Peoples’ financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a downturn in real estate values in Peoples’ market area could cause many of its loans to become inadequately collateralized. 13 • The Financial Services Industry Is Very Competitive. Peoples experiences significant competition in originating loans, principally from other commercial banks, savings associations and credit unions. Several of Peoples’ competitors have greater resources, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. This competition could reduce Peoples’ net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that it originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans. For a more complete discussion of Peoples’ competitive environment, see “Business—Competition” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. If Peoples is unable to compete effectively, Peoples will lose market share and income from deposits, loans and other products may be reduced. • Peoples’ Ability to Pay Dividends Is Limited. Peoples is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. Peoples receives nearly all of its revenue from dividends from Peoples Bank, which are limited by federal banking laws and regulations. These dividends also serve as the primary source of funds to pay dividends on Peoples’ common shares and interest and principal on Peoples’ debt. The inability of Peoples Bank to pay sufficient dividends to Peoples could have a material, adverse effect on Peoples’ business. Further discussion of Peoples’ ability to pay dividends can be found under the caption “Supervision and Regulation-Limits on Dividends and Other Payments” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K and Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. • Government Regulation Significantly Affects Peoples’ Business. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. Peoples is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, and Peoples Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC. and secondarily the FDIC. These regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not Peoples’ shareholders. Peoples’ non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory agencies including the SEC and state securities and insurance regulators. Regulations affecting banks and financial services businesses are undergoing continuous change, and management cannot predict the effect of those changes. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that affects Peoples and its subsidiaries. Any modifications or new laws could adversely affect Peoples’ business. Further information about government regulation of Peoples’ business can be found under the caption “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. • Material Breaches in Security of Peoples’ Systems May Have a Significant Effect on Peoples’ Business Peoples collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Peoples and third party service providers. Peoples has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable. Peoples also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the computer systems and requires its third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain that these measures will be successful. A security breach in the computer systems and loss of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could result in a loss of customers’ confidence and, thus, loss of business. • Peoples and Its Subsidiaries Are Subject to Examinations And Challenges by Tax Authorities In the normal course of business, Peoples and its subsidiaries are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding positions taken in their tax returns. State tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions, especially those positions relating to tax compliance and calculation of taxes subject to apportionment. Any challenge or examination by a tax authority may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. While management believes it has taken appropriate positions on the tax returns filed, any examination or challenge made that is not resolved in Peoples’ favor could have a material adverse effect on Peoples’ financial condition and results of operation. Peoples Bank has been undergoing an examination by the Ohio Department of Taxation (the “Department”) of its 2002 Ohio Corporation Franchise Tax Report related to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 (the “2002 tax year”). On August 23, 2006, the Department issued a Notice of Assessment in the amount of approximately $1.4 million in regards to Peoples Bank’s corporate franchise tax liability for the 2002 tax year. Management disagrees with this assessment in its entirety, and on September 22, 2006, Peoples Bank filed a Petition for Reassessment with the Department objecting to the assessment. Peoples Bank is not liable for nor is it required to pay the assessment while the Petition for Reassessment is pending. 14 The Department has also issued proposed adjustments to Peoples Bank’s 2003 Ohio Corporation Franchise Tax Report (the “2003 Ohio Report”) related to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 (the “2003 tax year”) on the basis of the 2002 assessment that would materially increase the amount of franchise tax due. Management has objected to these proposed adjustments in their entirety and is working with the Department to resolve and eliminate the proposed adjustments. As part of this process, management has agreed to a one-year extension of the statute of limitations for the 2003 tax year. The Department has not issued a Notice of Assessment with respect to the 2003 Ohio Report. In the first quarter of 2007, a tax agent for the Department informed Peoples Bank, by telephone, that the Department planned to continue the examination of Peoples Bank’s 2003 Ohio Report in the second quarter of 2007 and also begin an examination of the Ohio Reports for the 2004 through 2006 tax years, which management believes is consistent with recent patterns of Department examinations. Although the administrative process is not yet complete, and Peoples is unable to predict the outcome of this matter, management does not anticipate that the ultimate resolution of the proposed adjustments for the 2002 tax year or 2003 tax year will result in a material impact on Peoples’ consolidated financial position. To the extent management determines additional taxes may be due, Peoples recognizes liabilities for such tax exposures when losses associated with the claims are judged to be probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. No assurance can be given that the final resolution of the proposed adjustments by the Department to Peoples Bank’s corporate franchise tax liability for the 2002 tax year or 2003 tax year will not be different than what is reflected in Peoples’ current and historical consolidated financial statements. • Anti-Takeover Provisions May Delay Or Prevent an Acquisition Or Change in Control by a Third Party. Provisions in the Ohio General Corporation Law and Peoples’ amended articles of incorporation and code of regulations, including a staggered board and a supermajority vote requirement for significant corporate changes, could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by shareholders to remove Peoples’ board of directors and management more difficult. These provisions may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or change in control that might be in the best interests of Peoples’ shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 