ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Without obtaining adequate capital funding, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm, Grant Thornton LLP, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 contained a fourth explanatory paragraph to reflect its significant doubt about our ability to continue a going concern as a result of our history of losses and our liquidity position, as discussed in this Form 10-K. If we are unable to obtain adequate capital funding in the future, we may not be able to continue as a going concern, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operations, and investors’ investment in us may decline. We have experienced a history of losses, we expect to incur future losses and we may be unable to obtain necessary additional capital to fund operations in the future. We have recorded minimal revenue to date and we have incurred a cumulative operating loss of approximately $66.2 million through December 31, 2005. Net losses for the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $1,700,000, $10,238,000 and $6,935,000, respectively. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development activities related to our efforts to develop clinical drug candidates and from the associated administrative costs. We expect to incur additional operating losses over the next several years. We also expect cumulative losses to increase if we expand research and development efforts and preclinical and clinical trials. Our net cash burn rate for the twelve months of 2005 was approximately $700,000 per month. We project our net cash burn rate for the next twelve months to be approximately $675,000 per month. Capital expenditures are forecasted to be minor for the next twelve months. We require substantial capital for our development programs and operating expenses, to pursue regulatory clearances and to prosecute and defend our intellectual property rights. We believe that our existing capital resources, interest income, product sales, royalties and revenue from possible licensing agreements and collaborative agreements will be sufficient to fund our currently expected operating expenses (other than debt and interest obligations including the approximately $5 million of Senior Convertible notes due March 31, 2007, and approximately $4,015,000 of convertible notes which are required to be repaid in April 2007 and interest of $1,189,000 due September 2006) and capital requirements for twelve months. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to support our ongoing operations and debt obligations. If we do raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders would result and future investors may be granted rights superior to those of existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available to us through additional equity offerings, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs or to obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to issue additional equity securities or to relinquish rights to certain technologies or drug candidates that we would not otherwise issue or relinquish in order to continue independent operations. As a result of our history of losses and our liquidity position, our auditors have issued an audit report expressing significant doubt about our ability to remain a going concern. We do not have operating revenue and we may never attain profitability. To date, we have funded our operations primarily through private sales of common stock and convertible notes. Contract research payments and licensing fees from corporate alliances and mergers have also provided funding for our operations. Our ability to achieve significant revenue or profitability depends upon our ability to successfully complete the development of drug candidates, to develop and obtain patent protection and regulatory approvals for our drug candidates and to manufacture and commercialize the resulting drugs. We sold our only revenue producing assets to Uluru, Inc. in October 2005. We are not expecting any revenues in the short-term from our other assets. Furthermore, we may not be able to ever successfully identify, develop, commercialize, patent, manufacture, obtain required regulatory approvals and market any additional products. Moreover, even if we do identify, develop, commercialize, patent, manufacture, and obtain required regulatory approvals to market additional products, we may not generate revenues or royalties from commercial sales of these products for a significant number of years, if at all. Therefore, our proposed operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise. In the next few years, our revenues may be limited to minimal product sales and royalties, any amounts that we receive under strategic partnerships and research or drug development collaborations that we may establish and, as a result, we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability in the future or to achieve significant revenues in order to fund our operations. Our Standby Equity Distribution Agreement may have a dilutive impact on our stockholders. We are dependent on external financing to fund our operations. Our financial needs may be partially provided from the SEDA. The issuance of shares of our common stock under the SEDA will have a dilutive impact on our other stockholders and the issuance or even potential issuance of such shares could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, if we access the SEDA, we will issue shares of our common stock to Cornell Capital Partners at a discount to the lowest daily volume weighted average of our common stock during a specified period of trading days after we access the SEDA. Issuing shares at a discount will further dilute the interests of other stockholders and may negatively affect the market price of our Common Stock. To the extent that Cornell Capital Partners sells shares of our common stock issued under the SEDA to third parties, our stock price may decrease due to the additional selling pressure in the market. The perceived risk of dilution from sales of stock to or by Cornell Capital Partners may cause holders of our common stock to sell their shares, or it may encourage short sales of our common stock or other similar transactions. This could contribute to a decline in the stock price of our common stock. At this time we are not be able to draw funds from the SEDA until an amendment to our registration statement relating to the SEDA is filed and declared effective by the SEC. We may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations and our assets may be seized as a result. We may not generate the cash flow required to pay our liabilities as they become due. Our outstanding debt includes approximately $5 million of Senior Convertible notes due March 31, 2007, and approximately $9.5 million of our Convertible Subordinated Notes of which $4.0 million is due in April 2007 and $5.5 million due is in September 2010. 13 If our cash flow is inadequate to meet these obligations, we will default on the notes. Any default on the notes could allow our note holders to foreclose upon our assets, force us into bankruptcy or our secured note holders could foreclose on the escrow and pledge of our shares and sell the shares on the open market, which is likely to cause a significant drop in the price of our stock. We may be unable to repay or repurchase or restructure the convertible subordinated notes due in April 2007 and September 2010 and be forced into bankruptcy. In the event of a default, the holders of our secured convertible notes have the right to foreclose on all of our assets, which could force us to curtail or cease our business operations. The holders of our Convertible Notes may require us to repurchase or prepay all of the outstanding Convertible Notes under certain circumstances. We may not have sufficient cash reserves to repurchase the Convertible Notes at such time, which would cause an event of default under the Convertible Notes and may force us to declare bankruptcy. We may not successfully commercialize our drug candidates. Our drug candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products based on new technologies and our failure to develop safe, commercially viable drugs would severely limit our ability to become profitable or to achieve significant revenues. We may be unable to successfully commercialize our drug candidates because: • some or all of our drug candidates may be found to be unsafe or ineffective or otherwise fail to meet applicable regulatory standards or receive necessary regulatory clearances; • our drug candidates, if safe and effective, may be too difficult to develop into commercially viable drugs; • it may be difficult to manufacture or market our drug candidates on a large scale; • proprietary rights of third parties may preclude us from marketing our drug candidates; and • third parties may market superior or equivalent drugs. The success of our research and development activities, upon which we primarily focus, is uncertain. Our primary focus is on our research and development activities and the commercialization of compounds covered by proprietary biopharmaceutical patents and patent applications. Research and development activities, by their nature, preclude definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. Actual research and development costs, therefore, could exceed budgeted amounts and estimated time frames may require extension. Cost overruns, unanticipated regulatory delays or demands, unexpected adverse side effects or insufficient therapeutic efficacy will prevent or substantially slow our research and development effort and our business could ultimately suffer. We anticipate that we will remain principally engaged in research and development activities for an indeterminate, but substantial, period of time. 14 We may be unable to successfully develop, market, or commercialize our products or our product candidates without establishing new relationships and maintaining current relationships. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our potential pharmaceutical products may require us to enter into various arrangements with corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and others, in addition to our existing relationships with other parties. Specifically, we may seek to joint venture, sublicense or enter other marketing arrangements with parties that have an established marketing capability or we may choose to pursue the commercialization of such products on our own. We may, however, be unable to establish such additional collaborative arrangements, license agreements, or marketing agreements as we may deem necessary to develop, commercialize and market our potential pharmaceutical products on acceptable terms. Furthermore, if we maintain and establish arrangements or relationships with third parties, our business may depend upon the successful performance by these third parties of their responsibilities under those arrangements and relationships. Our ability to successfully commercialize, and market our product candidates could be limited if a number of these existing relationships were terminated. Furthermore, our strategy with respect to our polymer platinate program is to enter into a licensing agreement with a pharmaceutical company pursuant to which the further costs of developing a product would be shared with our licensing partner. Although we have had discussions with potential licensing partners with respect to our polymer platinate program, to date we have not entered into any licensing arrangement. We may be unable to execute our licensing strategy for polymer platinate. We may be unable to successfully manufacture our products and our product candidates in clinical quantities or for commercial purposes without the assistance of contract manufacturers, which may be difficult for us to obtain and maintain. We have limited experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products in clinical quantities or for commercial purposes and we may not be able to manufacture any new pharmaceutical products that we may develop. As a result, we have established, and in the future intend to establish arrangements with contract manufacturers to supply sufficient quantities of products to conduct clinical trials and for the manufacture, packaging, labeling and distribution of finished pharmaceutical products if any of our potential products are approved for commercialization. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our potential pharmaceutical products on acceptable terms, our preclinical and human clinical testing schedule may be delayed, resulting in the delay of our clinical programs and submission of product candidates for regulatory approval, which could cause our business to suffer. Our business could suffer if there are delays or difficulties in establishing relationships with manufacturers to produce, package, label and distribute our finished pharmaceutical or other medical products, if any, market introduction and subsequent sales of such products. Moreover, contract manufacturers that we may use must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices, as required by the FDA. In this regard, the FDA will not issue a pre-market approval or product and establishment licenses, where applicable, to a manufacturing facility for the products until the manufacturing facility passes a pre-approval plant inspection. If we are unable to obtain or retain third party manufacturing on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to commercialize our products as planned. Our potential dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our ability to generate profits or acceptable profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. AP5346 is manufactured by third parties for our Phase I/II clinical trials. Manufacturing is ongoing for the current clinical trials. Certain manufacturing steps are conducted by the Company to enable significant cost savings to be realized. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation which increases our cost of doing business and may affect our ability to commercialize any new products that we may develop. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the introduction of pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory, preclinical and clinical testing procedures and other costly and time-consuming procedures to establish their safety and efficacy. All of our drugs and drug candidates require receipt and maintenance of governmental approvals for commercialization. Preclinical and clinical trials and manufacturing of our drug candidates will be subject to the rigorous testing and approval processes 15 of the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. The status of our principal products is as follows: • AP5346 is currently commencing a Phase II trial in Europe and has commenced a Phase II trial in the US. • AP5346 has been approved for an additional Phase I trial in the US by the FDA. • A mucoadhesive liquid technology product, Vipor™, will be the subject of a 510(k) device approval application in 2006. • Vitamin mediated delivery technology is currently in the pre-clinical phase. • We also have other products in the preclinical phase. Due to the time consuming and uncertain nature of the drug candidate development process and the governmental approval process described above, we cannot assure you when we, independently or with our collaborative partners, might submit a NDA, for FDA or other regulatory review. Government regulation also affects the manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Government regulations may delay marketing of our potential drugs for a considerable or indefinite period of time, impose costly procedural requirements upon our activities and furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies or companies more experienced in regulatory affairs. Delays in obtaining governmental regulatory approval could adversely affect our marketing as well as our ability to generate significant revenues from commercial sales. Our drug candidates may not receive FDA or other regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, if regulatory approval of a drug candidate is granted, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which such drug may be marketed. Even if we obtain initial regulatory approvals for our drug candidates, Access, our drugs and our manufacturing facilities would be subject to continual review and periodic inspection, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the marketing or manufacture of such drug, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. The FDA and other regulatory authorities stringently apply regulatory standards and failure to comply with regulatory standards can, among other things, result in fines, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The uncertainty associated with preclinical and clinical testing may affect our ability to successfully commercialize new products. Before we can obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our potential drugs, the drug candidates will be subject to extensive preclinical and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Preclinical or clinical trials of any of our future drug candidates may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such drug candidates at all or to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. In this regard, for example, adverse side effects can occur during the clinical testing of a new drug on humans which may delay ultimate FDA approval or even lead us to terminate our efforts to develop the drug for commercial use. Companies in the biotechnology industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after demonstrating promising results in earlier trials. In particular, polymer platinate has taken longer to progress through clinical trials than originally planned. This extra time has not been related to concerns of the formulations but rather due to the lengthy regulatory process. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a drug candidate under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the drug candidate. A delay or failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our drug candidates could prevent us from successfully commercializing such candidates and we could incur substantial additional expenses in our attempts to further develop such candidates and obtain future regulatory approval. We may incur substantial product liability expenses due to the use or misuse of our products for which we may be unable to obtain insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These risks will expand with respect to our drug candidates, if any, that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale and we may face substantial liability for damages in the event of adverse side effects or product defects identified with any of our products that are used in clinical tests or marketed to the public. We 16 generally procure product liability insurance for drug candidates that are undergoing human clinical trials. Product liability insurance for the biotechnology industry is generally expensive, if available at all, and as a result, we may be unable to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in a sufficient amount in the future, if at all. We may be unable to satisfy any claims for which we may be held liable as a result of the use or misuse of products which we have developed, manufactured or sold and any such product liability claim could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We may incur significant liabilities if we fail to comply with stringent environmental regulations or if we did not comply with these regulations in the past. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such material and certain waste products. Although we believe that our activities and our safety procedures for storing, using, handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. Intense competition may limit our ability to successfully develop and market commercial products. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. The following products may compete with polymer platinate: • Cisplatin, marketed by Bristol-Myers-Squibb, the originator of the drug, and several generic manufacturers; • Carboplatin, marketed by Bristol-Myers-Squibb in the US; and • Oxaliplatin, marketed exclusively by Sanofi-Synthelabo. The following companies are working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with our polymer platinate: • Antigenics and Regulon are developing liposomal formulations; and • American Pharmaceutical Partners, Cell Therapeutics, Daiichi, Enzon and Debio are developing alternate drugs in combination with polymers and other drug delivery systems. Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with our vitamin mediated drug delivery system are Bristol-Myers-Squibb, Centocor (acquired by Johnson & Johnson), GlaxoSmithKline, Imclone and Xoma which are developing targeted monoclonal antibody therapy. Amgen, CuraGen, McNeil, MGI Pharma and OSI Pharmaceuticals are developing products to treat mucositis that may compete with our mucoadhesive liquid technology. BioDelivery, Biovail Corporation, Cellgate, CIMA Labs, Inc., Depomed Inc., Emisphere Technologies, Inc., Eurand, Flamel Technologies, Nobex and Xenoport are developing products which compete with our oral drug delivery system. Many of these competitors have and employ greater financial and other resources, including larger research and development, marketing and manufacturing organizations. As a result, our competitors may successfully develop technologies and drugs that are more effective or less costly than any that we are developing or which would render our technology and future products obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, some of our competitors have greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical and clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or 17 other regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we do. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their drugs before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage. Drugs resulting from our research and development efforts or from our joint efforts with collaborative partners therefore may not be commercially competitive with our competitors’ existing products or products under development. Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates will substantially depend upon the availability of reimbursement funds for the costs of the resulting drugs and related treatments. The successful commercialization of, and the interest of potential collaborative partners to invest in the development of our drug candidates, may depend substantially upon reimbursement of the costs of the resulting drugs and related treatments at acceptable levels from government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, including health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. Limited reimbursement for the cost of any drugs that we develop may reduce the demand for, or price of such drugs, which would hamper our ability to obtain collaborative partners to commercialize our drugs, or to obtain a sufficient financial return on our own manufacture and commercialization of any future drugs. The market may not accept any pharmaceutical products that we successfully develop. The drugs that we are attempting to develop may compete with a number of well-established drugs manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any drugs developed by us will depend on a number of factors, including the establishment and demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of our drug candidates, the potential advantage of our drug candidates over existing therapies and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. Physicians, patients or the medical community in general may not accept or use any drugs that we may develop independently or with our collaborative partners and if they do not, our business could suffer. Trends toward managed health care and downward price pressures on medical products and services may limit our ability to profitably sell any drugs that we may develop. Lower prices for pharmaceutical products may result from: • third-party payers’ increasing challenges to the prices charged for medical products and services; • the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of HMOs and similar organizations that can control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products; and • legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, including practice protocols and guidelines and clinical pathways, and the effect of any healthcare reform, could limit our ability to profitably sell any drugs that we may successfully develop. Moreover, any future legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement, may cause our business to suffer. 18 We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain U.S. and foreign patent protection for our drug candidates and processes, preserve our trade secrets and operate our business without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions and the scope of claims made under such patents are still developing and there is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The patent position of a biotechnology firm is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. We cannot assure you that any existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not subsequently be challenged, infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. As a result, although we, together with our subsidiaries, are either the owner or licensee to 11 U.S. patents and to 11 U.S. patent applications now pending, and 4 European patents and 12 European patent applications, we cannot assure you that any additional patents will issue from any of the patent applications owned by, or licensed to, us. Furthermore, any rights that we may have under issued patents may not provide us with significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially viable. Our patents for the following technologies expire in the years and during the date ranges indicated below: • AP5280 in 2021 • AP5346 in 2021 • Mucoadhesive technology, patents are pending • Vitamin mediated technology between 2006 and 2019 In addition, patents may have been granted to third parties or may be granted covering products or processes that are necessary or useful to the development of our drug candidates. If our drug candidates or processes are found to infringe upon the patents or otherwise impermissibly utilize the intellectual property of others, our development, manufacture and sale of such drug candidates could be severely restricted or prohibited. In such event, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties to utilize the patents or proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we become involved in litigation regarding our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others, the potential cost of such litigation, regardless of the strength of our legal position, and the potential damages that we could be required to pay could be substantial. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific team, including our acting Chief Executive Officer, Rosemary Mazanet. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could delay or prevent the achievement of our research, development, marketing, or product commercialization objectives. While we have employment agreements with David Nowotnik, PhD our Senior Vice President Research and Development, and Stephen Thompson, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, their employment may be terminated by them or us at any time. Mr. Thompson’s and Dr. Nowotnik’s agreements expire within one year and are extendable each year on the anniversary date. Dr. Mazanet is currently an employee at will. We do not have employment contracts with our other key personnel. We do not maintain any “key-man” insurance policies on any of our key employees and we do not intend to obtain such insurance. In addition, due to the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. In view of the stage of our development and our research and development programs, we have restricted our hiring to research scientists and a small administrative staff and we have made only limited investments in manufacturing, production, sales or regulatory compliance resources. There is intense competition among major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, however, and we may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these personnel. An investment in our common stock may be less attractive because it is not traded on a recognized public market. In February, 2006, our common stock was de-listed from trading on AMEX, and currently trades on the “Pink Sheets.” This is viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our common stock. 19 Our common stock is subject to Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (as defined in Rule 501(c) of the Securities Act). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule adversely affects the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and purchasers of our common stock to sell their shares of our common stock. Additionally, our common stock is subject to SEC regulations applicable to “penny stock.” Penny stock includes any non-Nasdaq equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule proscribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered by a broker-dealer to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for our common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock that disclose recent price information for the penny stock and information of the limited market for penny stocks. These requirements adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. Ownership of our shares is concentrated, to some extent, in the hands of a few investors which could limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence the direction of the company. Larry N. Feinberg (Oracle Partners LP, Oracle Institutional Partners LP and Oracle Investment Management Inc.) and Heartland Advisors, Inc. each beneficially owned approximately 26.4% and 10.9%, respectively, of our common stock as of December 31, 2005. SCO Capital Partners LLC, and its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 72.7% of our common stock as at March 30, 2006. Accordingly, they collectively may have the ability to significantly influence or determine the election of all of our directors or the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of our other stockholders. Provisions of our charter documents could discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders and may have the effect of entrenching, and making it difficult to remove, management. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws and Stockholders Rights Plan may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. In particular, shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as our Board of Directors may determine, including, for example, rights to convert into our common stock. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of our preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and discourage these investors from acquiring a majority of our common stock. Further, the existence of these corporate governance provisions could have the effect of entrenching management and making it more difficult to change our management. Substantial sales of our common stock could lower our stock price. The market price for our common stock could drop as a result of sales of a large number of our presently outstanding shares or shares that we may issue or be obligated to issue in the future. All of the 17,651,040 shares of our common stock that are outstanding as of March 30, 2006, are unrestricted and freely tradable or tradable pursuant to a resale registration statement or under Rule 144 of the Securities Act or are covered by a registration rights agreement. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our operating results could be harmed. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, 20 have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate and improve our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 