Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 30 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 45 Item 9A(T) Controls and Procedures 45 Item 9B. Other Information 46 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 46 Item 11. Executive Compensation 47 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 47 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 47 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 47 Item 15. Exhibits 48 Signatures 51 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS This Form 10-K (including the information incorporated by reference) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to the uncertainties associated with research and development activities, clinical trials, our ability to raise capital, the timing of and our ability to achieve regulatory approvals, dependence on others to market our licensed products, collaborations, future cash flow, the timing and receipt of licensing and milestone revenues, the future success of our marketed products and products in development, our sales projections, and the sales projections of our licensing partners, our ability to achieve licensing milestones and other risks described below as well as those discussed elsewhere in this 10-K, documents incorporated by reference and other documents and reports that we file periodically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These statements include, without limitation, statements relating to our ability to continue as a going concern, anticipated payments to be received from Uluru, anticipated product approvals and timing thereof, product opportunities, clinical trials and U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) applications, as well as our drug development strategy, our clinical development organization, expectations regarding our rate of technological developments and competition, our plan not to establish an internal marketing organization, our expectations regarding minimizing development risk and developing and introducing technology, the size of our targeted markets, the terms of future licensing arrangements, our ability to secure additional financing for our operations and our expected cash burn rate. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “could,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks outlined under “Risk Factors,” that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels or activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of filing this Form 10-K to conform such statements to actual results. Business Access Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (together with our subsidiaries, “We”, “Access” or the “Company”) is a Delaware corporation. We are an emerging biopharmaceutical company focused on developing a range of pharmaceutical products primarily based upon our nanopolymer chemistry technologies and other drug delivery technologies. We currently have one approved product, one product at Phase 3 of clinical development, four products in Phase 2 of clinical development and four products in pre-clinical development. Low priority clinical and pre-clinical programs will be dependent on our ability to enter into collaborative arrangements. Our description of our business, including our list of products and patents, takes into consideration our acquisition of MacroChem Corporation which closed February 25, 2009. · MuGard™ is our approved product for the management of oral mucositis, a frequent side-effect of cancer therapy for which there is no established treatment. The market for mucositis treatment is estimated to be in excess of $1 billion world-wide. MuGard, a proprietary nanopolymer formulation, has received marketing allowance in the U.S. from the Food & Drug Administration (“FDA”) and we expect approval and sales by our licensee in various EU countries in the first half of 2009. · Our lead development candidate for the treatment of cancer is ProLindac™, a nanopolymer DACH-platinum prodrug. ProLindac just completed a Phase 2 clinical trial in the EU in patients with ovarian cancer patients. The clinical study had positive safety and efficacy results. We are currently planning a number of combination trials, looking at combining ProLindac with other cancer agents such as taxol and gemcitabine, in solid tumor indications including colorectal and ovarian. The DACH-platinum incorporated in ProLindac is the same active moiety as that in oxaliplatin (Eloxatin; Sanofi-Aventis), which has sales in excess of $2.0 billion. · Thiarabine, or 4-thio Ara-C, is a next generation nucleoside analog licensed from Southern Research Institute. Previously named SR9025 and OSI-7836, the compound has been in two Phase 1/2 solid tumor human clinical trials and was shown to have anti-tumor activity. We are working with leukemia and lymphoma specialists at MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston and intend to initiate additional Phase 2 clinical trials in adult AML, ALL and other indications. 2 · Pexiganan is a novel topical broad-spectrum antibiotic being developed for the treatment of mild-to-moderate diabetic foot ulcer infections. Pexiganan has been through two Phase 3 clinical trials, and data from these trials were presented last December 15, 2008 in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases. We are actively seeking co-development partners for Pexiganan. · EcoNail is a proprietary lacquer formulation of the anti-fungal econazole and our Soft Enhancement of Percutaneous Absorption (SEPA) technology for the treatment of onychomycosis. EcoNail recently completed a Phase 2 clinical trial and we are currently evaluating its development and partnering strategy. · Phenylbutyrate (PB), an HDAC inhibitor and a differentiating agent, has been investigated in multiple Phase 1/2 NIH and clinician-sponsored trials, and is currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of hyperuremia, a pediatric orphan indication. For its use in cancer, phenylbutyrate is a Phase 2 clinical candidate. · Cobalamin™ is our proprietary preclinical nanopolymer oral drug delivery technology based on the natural vitamin B12 oral uptake mechanism. We are currently developing a product for the oral delivery of insulin, and are conducting sponsored development of a product for oral delivery of human growth hormone. · Angiolix® is our preclinical humanized monoclonal antibody which acts as an anti-angiogenesis factor and is targeted to lactadherin, a glycoprotein secreted by cancer cells, notably breast, ovarian and colorectal cancers. · Prodrax® is our non-toxic prodrug which is activated in the hypoxic zones of solid tumors to kill cancer cells. This product is in preclinical development. · Cobalamin-mediated cancer targeted delivery is a preclinical technology which makes use of the fact that cell surface receptors for vitamins such as B12 are often overexpressed by cancer cells. Products Access used its drug delivery technologies to develop the following products and product candidates: Access Drug Portfolio Compound Originator Technology Indication Clinical Stage (1) MuGard™ Access Mucoadhesive liquid Mucositis (510k) Marketing clearance received ProLindacTM (Polymer Platinate, AP5346) (2) Access / Univ of London Synthetic polymer Cancer Phase 2 Thiarabine (4-thio Ara-C) Southern Research Institute Small molecule Cancer Phase 1/2 Pexiganan Genaera Corp. Small peptide Diabetic foot ulcer infections Phase 3 EcoNail Access SEPA Onychomycosis Phase 2 Phenylbutyrate (PB) National Institute of Health Small molecule Cancer Phase 2 Oral Insulin Access Cobalamin Diabetes Pre-clinical Oral Delivery System Access Cobalamin Various Pre-clinical Angiolix® Immunodex, Inc. Humanized monoclonal antibody Cancer Pre-clinical Prodrax® Univ of London Small molecule Cancer Pre-clinical Cobalamin-Targeted Therapeutics Access Cobalamin Anti-tumor Pre-clinical (1) For more information, see “Government Regulation” for description of clinical stages. (2) Licensed from the School of Pharmacy, The University of London. Subject to a 1% royalty and milestone payments on sales. 3 Approved Products MuGard™ - Mucoadhesive Liquid Technology (MLT) Mucositis is a debilitating condition involving extensive inflammation of mouth tissue that affects annually an estimated 400,000 cancer patients in the United States undergoing chemotherapy and radiation treatment. Any treatment that would accelerate healing and/or diminish the rate of appearance of mucositis would have a significant beneficial impact on the quality of life of these patients and may allow for more aggressive chemotherapy. We believe the potential addressable market for a mucositis product could be over $1 billion world-wide. Access’ MuGard is a viscous polymer solution which provides a coating for the oral cavity. MuGard is dispensed in a ready to use form. A multi-site, randomized clinical study was performed in the United States testing MuGard and MuGard containing an anti-inflammatory drug to determine the effect of these products on the prevention and treatment of mucositis. The data from this trial indicated that the patients using MuGard displayed a lower incidence of mucositis than is typically seen in the studied population with no additional benefit from the drug. The data were retrospectively compared with two historical patient databases to evaluate the potential advantages MuGard may provide in the prevention, treatment and management of mucositis. The patient evaluation was conducted using the oral mucositis assessment scale (OMAS), which qualifies the disease severity on a scale of 0-5. Key highlights of the comparison with the historical patient databases are as follows: • the average severity of the disease was reduced by approximately 40%; • the maximum intensity of the mucositis was approximately 35% lower; and • the median peak intensity was approximately 50% lower. These data confirmed the fact that MuGard could represent an important advancement in the management and prevention of mucositis. On September 20, 2006, we announced that we had submitted a Premarket Notification 510(k) application to the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announcing the Company’s intent to market MuGard. On December 13, 2006, we announced that we had received marketing clearance for MuGard from FDA for the indication of the management of oral wounds including mucositis, aphthous ulcers and traumatic ulcers. In August 2007, we signed a definitive licensing agreement with SpePharm Holding, B.V. under which SpePharm will market MuGard in Europe. MuGard sales are expected to start in the first six months of 2009 in Europe. In January 2008, we signed a definitive licensing agreement with RHEI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. under which RHEI will market MuGard in China and other Southeast Asian countries. In August 2008, we signed a definitive licensing agreement with Milestone Biosciences, LLC under which Milestone will market MuGard in the United States and Canada. Access is currently seeking marketing partners to market MuGard in other territories worldwide. Products in Development ProLindac™ (Polymer Platinate, AP5346) DACH Platinum Chemotherapy, surgery and radiation are the major components in the clinical management of cancer patients. Chemotherapy serves as the primary therapy for some solid tumors and metastases and is increasingly used as an adjunct to radiation and surgery to improve their effectiveness. For chemotherapeutic agents to be effective in treating cancer patients, however, the agent must reach the target cells in effective quantities with minimal toxicity in normal tissues. 4 The current optimal strategy for chemotherapy involves exposing patients to the most intensive cytotoxic regimens they can tolerate and clinicians attempt to design a combination of chemotherapeutic drugs, a dosing schedule and a method of administration to increase the probability that cancerous cells will be destroyed while minimizing the harm to healthy cells. Notwithstanding clinicians’ efforts, most current chemotherapeutic drugs have significant shortcomings that limit the efficacy of chemotherapy. For example, certain cancers are inherently unresponsive to chemotherapeutic agents. Alternatively, other cancers may initially respond, but subgroups of cancer cells acquire resistance to the drug during the course of therapy and the resistant cells may survive and cause a relapse. Serious toxicity, including bone marrow suppression, renal toxicity, neuropathy, or irreversible cardiotoxicity, are some of the limitations of current anti-cancer drugs that can prevent their administration in curative doses. Oxaliplatin, a compound of DACH platinum, is a chemotherapeutic which was initially approved in Europe in 1999 for the treatment of colorectal cancer. It is now also being marketed worldwide and generated sales in excess of $2 billion in 2006. Carboplatin and Cisplatin, two other approved platinum chemotherapy drugs, are not indicated for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. Oxaliplatin, in combination with 5-flurouracil and folinic acid (known as the FOLFOX regime) is indicated for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer in Europe and the U.S. The colorectal cancer market is a significant opportunity as there are over 940,000 reported new cases annually worldwide, increasing at a rate of approximately three percent per year, and 500,000 deaths. Currently, platinum compounds are one of the largest selling categories of chemotherapeutic agents, with annual sales in excess of $3.0 billion in 2006. As is the case with all chemotherapeutic drugs, the use of such compounds is associated with serious systemic side effects. The drug development goal therefore is to enhance delivery of the active drug to the tumor and minimize the amount of active drug affecting normal organs in the body. Utilizing a biocompatible water-soluble polymer (HPMA) as a drug carrier, Access’ drug candidate ProLindac, links DACH platinum to a polymer in a manner which permits the selective release of active drug to the tumor by several mechanisms. The main release mechanism takes advantage of the differential pH in tumor tissue compared to healthy tissue. The polymer also capitalizes on the biological differences in the permeability of blood vessels at tumor sites versus normal tissue. In this way, tumor selective delivery and platinum release is achieved. The ability of ProLindac to inhibit tumor growth has been evaluated in more than ten preclinical models. Compared with the marketed product oxaliplatin, ProLindac was superior, and in several cases markedly superior in most of these models. Preclinical studies of the delivery of platinum to tumors in an animal model have shown that, compared with oxaliplatin at equitoxic doses, ProLindac delivers in excess of 16 times more platinum to the tumor. An analysis of tumor DNA, which is the main target for anti-cancer platinum agents, has shown that ProLindac delivers approximately 14 times more platinum to tumor DNA than oxaliplatin. Results from preclinical efficacy studies conducted in the B16 and other tumor models have also shown that ProLindac is superior to oxaliplatin in inhibiting the growth of tumors. An extensive preclinical package has been developed supporting the development of ProLindac. In 2005, we completed a Phase 1 multi-center clinical study conducted in Europe, which enrolled 26 patients. The study was reported in a journal publication, Cancer Chemotherapy and Pharmacology, 60(4): 523-533 in 2007. The European trial was designed to identify the maximum tolerated dose, dose limiting toxicities, the pharmacokinetics of the platinum in plasma and the possible anti-tumor activity of ProLindac. The open-label, non-randomized, dose-escalation Phase 1 study was performed at two European centers. ProLindac was administered as an intravenous infusion over one hour, once a week on days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day cycle to patients with solid progressive tumors. We obtained results in 26 patients with a broad cross-section of tumor types, with doses ranging from 80-1,280 mg Pt/m2. Of the 26 patients, 10 were not evaluable for tumor response, principally due to withdrawal from the study prior to completing the required number of cycles. Of the 16 evaluable patients, 2 demonstrated a partial response, 1 experienced a partial response based on a biomarker and 4 experienced stable disease. One of the patients who attained a partial response had a melanoma with lung metastasis; a CT scan revealed a tumor decrease of greater than 50%. The other patient who responded had ovarian cancer; she had a reduction in lymph node metastasis and remission of a liver metastasis. The patient who experienced a partial response based on a biomarker was an ovarian cancer patient for whom Ca125 levels returned to normal. Also of note, a patient with cisplatin resistant cervical cancer showed a short lasting significant reduction in lung metastasis after 3 doses. However, due to toxicity, the patient could not be retreated to determine whether the partial response could be maintained. Enrollment in a Phase 2 clinical trial of ProLindac was completed late in 2008 in ovarian cancer patients who have relapsed after first line platinum therapy and second line therapies. The primary aim of the study was to determine the response rate of ProLindac monotherapy in this patient population. The response rates for other platinum compounds in this indication are reported, and were used for comparison. Patients were dosed either once every 2 weeks or once every three weeks. As the Phase 1 study involved weekly dosing, the initial phase of the ovarian cancer monotherapy study involved some dose escalation to determine recommended doses using these dosing regimens. 5 This 26 patient Phase 2 study explored 3 different dose levels and 2 dosing regimens of ProLindac as a monotherapy treatment for advanced ovarian cancer, to provide data on the monotherapy anticancer activity and safety of ProLindac. Of patients eligible for evaluation according to standard RECIST criteria, clinically-meaningful disease stabilization was achieved in 42% of all patients, and 66% of all patients in the higher dose groups. Sustained and significant reductions in Ca125, the established specific serum marker for ovarian cancer, were also observed in several patients. We reported positive safety and efficacy results from this Phase 2 monotherapy clinical study of ProLindacTM in late-stage, heavily pretreated ovarian cancer patients. No patient in any dose group exhibited any signs of acute neurotoxicity, which is a major adverse side-effect of the approved DACH platinum, Eloxatin, and ProLindac was well tolerated overall. The maximum tolerated dose of ProLindac was established as well as the recommended dose levels for future combination studies. ProLindac was well tolerated in an absolute sense and relative to commercially-available platinum therapies. We saw significant DACH platinum activity and efficacy in patients at the highest dose levels which is very encouraging given that this study involved monotherapy in a heavily pretreated patient population that typically only respond to aggressive drug combinations. The DACH platinum activity level seen benchmarked favorably with published studies of monotherapy oxaliplatin in similar but less heavily pre-treated patient populations. Having achieved the recommended dose for future combination studies, we look forward to moving ahead in the clinic ourselves and with our regional partners.” We previously submitted an IND application to the US Food and Drug Administration, and received clearance from the agency to proceed with a Phase 1 clinical study of ProLindac in combination with fluorouracil and leucovorin. The study is designed to evaluate the safety of ProLindac in combination with two standard drugs used to treat colorectal cancer and to establish a safe dose for Phase 2 clinical studies of this combination in colorectal cancer. We are currently evaluating various options for combination trials, to be conducted either within the US or in other countries. We are looking at combining ProLindac with other cancer agents, such as taxol and gemcitabine, in multiple solid tumor indications including colorectal and ovarian. Thiarabine (4-thio Ara-C) Our product candidate Thiarabine (SR-9025 or 4'-thio-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine) is a new generation nucleoside analogue which was invented by Southern Research Institute of Birmingham, Alabama. This compound is within a certain class of anti-cancer drugs generally characterized as cytotoxic agents with proven success in certain blood-borne cancers. Thiarabine exhibited significant activity, including regressions or cures, in six tested leukemia or lymphoma cell lines. The compound produced better activity than ara-C or a fatty acid-modified ara-C (depot) analog in four of six tested models. Thiarabine also performed as well or better than clofarabine and gemcitabine in each of the models. Unlike ara-C, thiarabine was found to be active in a wide variety of solid tumor xenograft models (14 different cell lines), including colorectal, lung, renal, prostate, breast and pancreatic tumors, mainly via intraperitoneal administration (one model was done iv). Thiarabine produced regressions or tumor-free survivors in about half of the models and exhibited better activity than gemcitabine or clofarabine in many models. Thiarabine activity was also better than that of paclitaxel or cisplatin in certain lung models. An increase in regression or cure rate over either compound alone was observed with combinations of thiarabine and cisplatin in lung tumors, thiarabine and irinotecan or clofarabine in colorectal tumors, and thiarabine plus clofarabine in a leukemia model. Two phase 1 studies were conducted of thiarabine monotherapy in patients with solid tumors. In the first phase 1 study, 26 patients with incurable advanced and/or metastatic solid tumors were enrolled. The protocol involved doseescalation, starting at 100 mg/m2 iv over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, every three weeks. Patients were dosed at 200, 400, 500, and 600 mg/m2. Out of 21 evaluable patients, 9 experienced stable disease (median duration 4.3 months, range 1.8-6.4 months). 6 Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) were observed at 400-600 mg/m2. Unlike previous observations with gemcitabine and ara-C (where the DLT is myelosupression; leucopenia and thrombocytopenia), there were no grade four toxicities and no hematological toxicities other than reversible, lymphopenia. Investigators concluded that the (Grade 3) dose-limiting toxicities were fatigue, rash, fever, seizure and lymphopenia. A second solid tumor phase 1 trial was carried out to explore other schedules. The schedules were 200 mg/m2 via 60-minute IV infusion every 21 days, 5-minute bolus on same schedule, and 5-minute bolus weekly for 4 weeks starting with a dose of 100 mg/m2. Of the 27 evaluable patients, 7 patients (bladder cancer and mesothelioma) achieved disease stabilization (median 3.7 months, range 1.9-5.4). The main toxicity was fatigue, which appeared to be schedule independent. The excellent results seen for thiarabine in leukemia and lymphoma preclinical models and the lymphopenia observed in clinical studies provides a strong rationale for further investigation of thiarabine in leukemia and lymphoma patients. Access plans to initiate further thiarabine clinical studies in at least one of these patient populations subject to funding or partnering. Sodium Phenylbutyrate Sodium Phenylbutyrate, or PB, is a small molecule that was previously approved by the FDA for sale as a treatment for a rare genetic disorder in infants known as hyperuremia. PB has a number of additional mechanisms of action, including the inhibition of histone deacetylase. Histone deacetylase is a class of enzymes that remove acetyl groups from the amino acids in DNA. The inhibition of histone deacetylase allows the body’s cancer suppressing genes to work as intended. In addition, PB is not toxic to cells. These characteristics make PB a good candidate to become a chemopotentiator; that is, a substance that enhances the activity of a chemotherapeutic agent. As a result, PB will ideally be administered in conjunction with radiation and/or chemotherapy. We are a party to a sublicense agreement with VectraMed, Inc. for the rights to develop and commercialize PB worldwide for the treatment of cancer, autoimmune diseases and other clinical indications. VectraMed obtained its rights to the product under an Exclusive Patent License Agreement dated May 25, 1995 with the U.S. Public Health Service, representing the National Institutes of Health. VectraMed subsequently assigned all its rights to PB to us pursuant to a novation agreement dated May 10, 2005. These patents expire at various times between 2011 and 2016. Phenylbutyrate has been the subject of numerous Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies sponsored by the National Cancer Institute and others demonstrating the safety and efficacy of PB in cancer, both as a monotherapy and in combination with other anticancer compounds. To date, we have not been involved in any capacity in the conduct of any clinical trial related to PB. We believe that PB may be a candidate to become a biological-response modifier that acts as a dose-dependent inhibitor of cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasiveness, possibly by inhibition of urokinase and c-myc pathways, which means that it inhibits the protease activity that irreversibly induces programmed cell death. In addition, we believe that PB shows potential for the treatment of malignant gliomas, which are cancers of the brain. We are aware of numerous products in development for brain cancers. We are aware of several products being developed by academic and commercial organizations targeting glioblastoma. Medicis Pharmaceuticals currently sells Sodium Phenylbutyrate (Buphenyl®) for the treatment of a urea cycle disorder, hyperuremia. There are thirteen key use patents related to PB which have been issued to the NIH and licensed by us. PB has potential to be used in combination to treat many different types of cancer. One of the more promising unmet needs for which PB has previously shown potential is glioblastoma, and we are evaluating whether to support additional clinical trials for this indication. PB also has shown considerable promise to be used as a topical medication to treat radiation dermatitis. A cream formulation of PB has been developed. We are looking for a partner to complete this work with PB. 7 Research Projects, Products and Products in Development Drug Development Strategy With the acquisition of Somanta Ltd. in 2008 and MacroChem Corporation in 2009, Access has a rich pipeline of products ranging from preclinical development candidates to one approved product. To maximize return on this portfolio, we have elected to sell the rights to some of the products so that we can focus our efforts on the development of the remaining products. Products being harvested for cash include MuGard, Pexiganan, EcoNail and Phenylbutyrate. Products and technologies that we are continuing to develop in-house and with collaborators are ProLindac, Thiarabine, Cobalamin, Angiolix, and Prodrax. A part of our integrated drug development strategy is to form alliances with centers of excellence in order to obtain alternative lead compounds while minimizing the overall cost of research. The Company does not spend significant resources on fundamental biological research but rather focuses on its chemistry expertise and clinical development. For example, certain of our polymer platinate technology has resulted in part from a research collaboration with The School of Pharmacy, University of London. Our strategy is to focus on our polymer therapeutic program for the treatment of cancer while continuing to develop technologies such as Cobalamin-mediated oral drug delivery and Cobalamin-mediated tumor targeting which could provide us with a revenue stream in the short term through commercialization or outlicensing to fund our longer-term polymer and oncology drug development programs such as Angiolix, Prodrax and Thiarabine. To reduce financial risk and equity financing requirements, we are directing our resources to the preclinical and early clinical phases of development. Where the size of the necessary clinical studies and cost associated with the later clinical development phases are significant, we plan to co-develop with or to outlicense to marketing partners our therapeutic product candidates. By forming strategic alliances with pharmaceutical and/or biotech companies, we believe that our technology can be more rapidly developed and successfully introduced into the marketplace. We will continue to evaluate the most cost-effective methods to advance our programs. We will contract certain research and development, manufacturing and manufacturing scaleup, certain preclinical testing and product production to research organizations, contract manufacturers and strategic partners. As appropriate to achieve cost savings and accelerate our development programs, we will expand our internal core capabilities and infrastructure in the areas of chemistry, formulation, analytical methods development, clinical development, biology and project management to maximize product opportunities in a timely manner. Process We begin the product development effort by screening and formulating potential product candidates, selecting an optimal active component, developing a formulation, and developing the processes and analytical methods. Pilot stability, toxicity and efficacy testing are conducted prior to advancing the product candidate into formal preclinical development. Specialized skills are required to produce these product candidates utilizing our technology. We have a limited core internal development capability with significant experience in developing these formulations, but also depend upon the skills and expertise of our contractors. Once the product candidate has been successfully screened in pilot testing, our scientists, together with external consultants, assist in designing and performing the necessary preclinical efficacy, pharmacokinetic and toxicology studies required for IND submission. External investigators and scaleup manufacturing facilities are selected in conjunction with our consultants. The initial Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies are conducted by institutions and investigators supervised and monitored by our employees and contract research organizations. We do not plan to have an extensive clinical development organization as we plan to have the advance phases of this process conducted by a development partner. Should we conduct Phase 3 clinical studies we expect to engage a contract research organization to perform this work. We contract with third party contract research organizations (CROs) to complete our large clinical trials and for data management of all of our clinical trials. Currently, we are preparing for two Phase 2 ProLindac trials to be completed by our licensees in China and Korea. Our licensees are funding these trials. We are also planning for additional Phase 2 clinical studies in France during 2009 subject to our ability to fund such trial. Our licensees for MuGard are planning for additional clinical studies to strengthen marketing claims 8 With all of our product development candidates, we cannot assure you that the results of the in vitro or animal studies are or will be indicative of the results that will be obtained if and when these product candidates are tested in humans. We cannot assure you that any of these projects will be successfully completed or that regulatory approval of any product will be obtained. We expended approximately $12,613,000 and $2,602,000 on research and development during the years 2008 and 2007, respectively. Scientific Background Access possesses a broad range of technologies and intellectual property in the areas of drug delivery and oncology. Our core technologies rely on the use of nanopolymers for use in the management of oral conditions such as mucositis, and in drug delivery. In addition, we have small molecule and monoclonal antibody programs which also embody the principals of drug delivery and drug targeting. The ultimate criteria for effective drug delivery is to control and optimize the localized release of the drug at the target site and rapidly clear the non-targeted fraction. Conventional drug delivery systems such as controlled release, sustained release, transdermal systems and others are designed for delivering active product into the systemic circulation over time with the objective of improving patient compliance. These systems do not address the biologically relevant issues such as site targeting, localized release and clearance of drug. The major factors that impact the achievement of this ultimate drug delivery goal are the physical characteristics of the drug and the biological characteristics of the disease target sites. The physical characteristics of the drug affect solubility in biological systems, its biodistribution throughout the body, and its interactions with the intended pharmacological target sites and undesired areas of toxicity. The biological characteristics of the diseased area impact the ability of the drug to selectively interact with the intended target site to allow the drug to express the desired pharmacological activity. We believe our drug delivery technologies are differentiated from conventional drug delivery systems in that they seek to apply a disease-specific approach to improve the drug delivery process with formulations to significantly enhance the therapeutic efficacy and reduce toxicity of a broad spectrum of products. Core Drug Delivery Technology Platforms and Technologies Our current drug delivery technology platforms for use in cancer chemotherapy are: · Synthetic Polymer Targeted Drug Delivery Technology; · Cobalamin™-Mediated Oral Delivery Technology; · Cobalamin™-Mediated Targeted Delivery Technology; · Angiolix®; and · Prodrax®. Our other drug delivery technologies are: · Pexiganan; and · EcoNail. Each of these platforms is discussed below: Synthetic Polymer Targeted Drug Delivery Technology In collaboration with The School of Pharmacy, University of London, we have developed a synthetic polymer technology, which utilizes a hydroxypropylmethacrylamide (HPMA) polymer with platinum, designed to exploit enhanced permeability and retention, or EPR, at tumor sites to selectively accumulate drug and control drug release. This technology is employed in our lead clinical program, ProLindac. Many solid tumors possess vasculature that is hyperpermeable, or leaky, to macromolecules. In addition to this enhanced permeability, tumors usually lack effective lymphatic and/or capillary drainage. Consequently, tumors selectively accumulate circulating macromolecules, including, for example, up to 10% of an intravenous dose in mice. This effect has been termed EPR, and is thought to constitute the mechanism of action of styrene-maleic/anhydride-neocarzinostatin, or SMANCS, which is in regular clinical use in Japan for the treatment of hepatoma. These polymers take advantage of endothelial permeability as the drug carrying polymers are trapped in tumors and then taken up by tumor cells. Linkages between the polymer and drug can be designed to be cleaved extracellularly or intracellularly. Utilizing the principles of prodrugs, the drug is essentially inert while attached to the polymer, but is released inside the tumor mass while polymer/drug not delivered to tumors is cleared from the body via the kidneys. For example, ProLindac is attached to a pH-sensitive linker which releases the platinum cytotoxic agent much faster in the low pH environments found typically outside of hypoxic tumor cells and within specific compartments inside of tumor cells. Data generated in animal studies have shown that the polymer/drug complexes are far less toxic than free drug alone and that greater efficacy can be achieved. Thus, these polymer complexes have demonstrated significant improvement in the therapeutic index of anti-cancer drugs, including, for example, platinum. 9 Cobalamin™-Mediated Oral Delivery Technology Oral delivery is the preferred method of administration of drugs where either long-term or daily use (or both) is required. However many therapeutics, including peptide and protein drugs, are poorly absorbed when given orally. With more and more peptide and protein based biopharmaceuticals entering the market, there is an increasing need to develop an effective oral delivery system for them, as well as for long-standing injected drugs such as insulin. The difficulty in administering proteins orally is their susceptibility to degradation by digestive enzymes, their inability to cross the intestinal wall and their rapid excretion by the body. Over the years, many different methodologies for making protein drugs available orally have been attempted. Most of the oral protein delivery technologies involve protecting the protein degradation in the intestine. More recently, strategies have been developed that involve coadministering the protein or peptide with permeation enhancers, which assist in passive transit through the gut wall or by attaching the protein or peptide to a molecule that transports the protein across the gut wall. However, the field of oral drug delivery of proteins and peptides has yet to achieve successful commercialization of a product (although positive results have been achieved in early clinical trials for some products under development). Many pharmaceutically active compounds such as proteins, peptides and cytotoxic agents cannot be administered orally due to their instability in the gastrointestinal tract or their inability to be absorbed and transferred to the bloodstream. A technology that would allow many of these actives to be taken orally would greatly enhance their acceptance and value. Several technologies for the protection of sensitive actives in the gastro-intestinal tract and/or enhancement of gastro-intestinal absorption have been explored and many have failed. Our proprietary technology for oral drug delivery utilizes the body’s natural vitamin B12 (VB12) transport system in the gut. The absorption of VB12 in the intestine occurs by way of a receptor-mediated endocytosis. Initially, VB12 binds to intrinsic factor (IF) in the small intestine, and the VB12-IF complex then binds to the IF receptor on the surface of the intestine. Receptor-mediated endocytosis then allows the transport of VB12 across the gut wall. After binding to another VB12-binding protein, transcobalamin II (TcII), VB12 is transferred to the bloodstream. Our scientists discovered that Cobalamin (analogs of VB12) will still be transported by this process even when drugs, macromolecules, or nanoparticles are coupled to the Cobalamin. Thus Cobalamin serves as a carrier to transfer these materials from the intestinal lumen to the bloodstream. For drugs and macromolecules that are stable in the gastro-intestinal tract, the drug or macromolecule can be coupled directly (or via a linker) to Cobalamin. If the capacity of the Cobalamin transport system is inadequate to provide an effective blood concentration of the active, transport can be amplified by attaching many molecules of the drug to a polymer, to which Cobalamin is also attached. A further option, especially for drugs and macromolecules that are unstable in the intestine, is to formulate the drug in a nanoparticle which is then coated with Cobalamin. Once in the bloodstream, the active is released by diffusion and/or erosion of the nanoparticle. Utilization of nanoparticles also serves to ‘amplify’ delivery by transporting many molecules at one time due to the inherently large nanoparticle volume compared with the size of the drug. Our proprietary position in this technology involves the conjugation of Cobalamin and/or folic acid and/or biotin (or their analogs) to a polymer to which is also attached the drug to be delivered, or attached to a nanoparticle in which the drug is incorporated. Since many molecules of the drug are attached to a single polymer strand, or are incorporated in a single nanoparticle, disease targeting is amplified compared to simpler conjugates involving one molecule of the vitamin with one drug molecule. However, in situations when such a simple conjugate might be preferred, our patents also encompass these vitamin-drug conjugates. 10 Cobalamin™-Mediated Targeted Delivery Technology Most drugs are effective only when they reach a certain minimum concentration in the region of disease, yet are well distributed throughout the body contributing to undesirable side effects. It is therefore advantageous to alter the natural biodistribution of a drug to have it more localized where it is needed. Our Cobalamin-mediated targeted delivery technology utilizes the fact that in many diseases where there is rapid growth and/or cell division, the demand for certain vitamins increases. By coupling the drug to a vitamin analog, the analog serves as a carrier to increase the amount of drug at the disease site relative to its normal distribution. One application of this technology is in tumor targeting. The use of cytotoxic drugs is one of the most common methods for treating a variety of malignancies including solid and non-solid tumors. The drawbacks of chemotherapeutic treatments, which include tumor resistance, cancer relapse and toxicity from severe damage to healthy tissues, has fuelled a scientific quest for novel treatments that are specifically targeted to malignant cells thus reducing damage to collateral tissues. The design of targeted therapies involves exploitation of the difference between the structure and function of normal cells compared with malignant cells. Differences include the increased levels of surface receptors on cancer cells, which makes them more sensitive to treatment regimes that target these cell surface receptors and differences in blood supply within and around tumor cells compared with normal cells. Two basic types of targeting approaches are utilized, passive tumor targeting and active tumor targeting. • passive tumor targeting involves transporting anti-cancer agents through the bloodstream to tumor cells using a “carrier” molecule. Many different carrier molecules, which can take a variety of forms (micelles, nanoparticles, liposomes and polymers), are being investigated as each provides advantages such as specificity and protection of the anti-cancer drug from degradation due to their structure, size (molecular weights) and particular interactions with tumor cells. Our polymer platinate program is a passive tumor targeting technology. • active tumor targeting involves attaching an additional fragment to the anticancer drug and the carrier molecule to create a new “targeted” agent that will actively seek a complementary surface receptor to which it binds (preferentially located on the exterior of the tumor cells). The theory is that the targeting of the anti-cancer agent through active means to the affected cells should allow more of the anti-cancer drug to enter the tumor cell, thus amplifying the response to the treatment and reducing the toxic effect on bystander, normal tissue. Examples of active targeting fragments include antibodies, growth factors and vitamins. Our scientists have specifically focused on using Cobalamin compounds (analogs of vitamin B12), but we have also used and have certain intellectual property protection for the use of folate and biotin which may more effectively target anti-cancer drugs to certain solid tumors. It has been known for some time that vitamin B12 and folic acid are essential for tumor growth and as a result, receptors for these vitamins are up-regulated in certain tumors. Vitamin B12 receptor over-expression occurs in breast, lung, leukemic cells, lymphoma cells, bone, thyroid, colon, prostate and brain cancers and some other tumor lines, while folate receptor over-expression occurs in breast, lung, ovarian, endometrial, renal, colon, brain and cancers of myeloid hemotopoietic cells and methotrexate-sensitive tumors. Angiolix® Angiolix (huMc-3) is a humanized monoclonal antibody targeting a glycoprotein known as lactadherin. Lactadherin promotes the growth of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) to support tumor growth. Angiolix, by blocking lactadherin, has the potential to induce programmed cell death, or apoptosis, in blood vessels supporting tumors. Angiolix was sublicensed from Immunodex, Inc., who licensed the product from the Cancer Research Institute of Contra Costa. Under that agreement, we are required to meet certain development targets, and make certain payments including an annual license maintenance fee and milestone payments. 11 We believe that Angiolix has a large market potential in the treatment of cancer. Avastin® is a marketed anti-angiogenesis monoclonal antibody that is effective by using a similar mechanism to that of Angiolix, and is used in the treatment of colorectal and other cancer types. Angiolix is unique in that it targets a propriety gene product which is expressed by cancerous tumors. We are not aware of any other organization developing similar products targeting this protein. The key patent relating to Angiolix has been issued in the U.S. and Australia. In general, it covers the composition of matter and various aspects of the binding to applicable antigens as well as the manufacture of Angiolix. We also have foreign counterparts to this patent pending in the European Union and Canada. Angiolix is a humanized monoclonal antibody. Humanization is a process by which genetic material from a mouse cell is made tolerable to humans, using a patented technology developed by the National Institute of Health. The NIH previously granted to the Cancer Research Institute of Contra Costa a license to the applicable humanization technology. Pursuant to the Immunodex agreement, Immunodex and the Cancer Research Institute of Contra Costa are seeking to obtain for us the NIH’s consent to a sublicense to us of the Cancer Research Institute of Contra Costa right to use the NIH humanization technology. We have an agreement with an academic investigator for the development of Angiolix. We intend to complete preclinical development of Angiolix through the contributions of this investigator and through a contract manufacturer and contract testing laboratories. As a result we anticipate beginning a Phase 1 clinical study of Angiolix in 2010. Prodrax® Prodrax is a prodrug technology whereby non-toxic small molecule anticancer drugs become highly cytotoxic in low oxygen tumors by irreversible conversion to a form capable of binding to the DNA in tumor cells. This binding of DNA can result in tumor cell death. Prodrax molecules are di-N-oxides of chloroalkylaminoanthraquinone derivatives. We have a license to this technology from the University of London School of Pharmacy. Prodrax is inert in normally oxygenated cells and becomes toxic in low oxygen areas, enabling it to kill tumor cells. Many solid tumors have a low oxygen area that is resistant to radiation and conventional chemotherapy. These cells repopulate the tumor with additional tumor cells that may be resistant to radiation and conventional chemotherapy. These cells are often referred to as quiescent. Cancer stems cells, now thought by many experts to be the progenitor of cancer spread (metastasis) throughout the body, are normally able to reside in hypoxic tumor regions unaffected by most anticancer therapies, which are only able to attack tumor cells which have a good blood and oxygen supply. Thus Prodrax has the potential to curtail tumor growth and progression by causing cell death in tumor regions normally unaffected by anticancer agents. Prodrax becomes irreversibly converted to its toxic form in low oxygen tumor cells where it remains localized. When the surrounding oxygenated cells are killed by radiotherapy or chemotherapy, these Prodrax-containing quiescent cells move closer to the oxygen source and attempt to resume more active replication. It is in this state that they are killed by Prodrax, through potent DNA damage. When given in conjunction with radiotherapy or conventional chemotherapy we expect Prodrax to result in significant improvement of tumor clearance and to reduce the likelihood of tumor repopulation, improving disease free survival. It is estimated that over 50% of all solid tumors exhibit clinically significant hypoxia, or low oxygenation, and that over two million people in the U.S. and Europe suffer from solid tumor cancers. If successful, Prodrax could improve the prognosis for a significant number of cancer sufferers in a wide range of tumor types. In a 2-year research agreement with the University of Bradford in the UK, which expired in March 2008, several Prodrax molecules were made and tested, and two lead compounds were identified. Additional testing is required in order to select a primary lead which will be taken forward into clinical development. We expect to identify the lead in the first half of 2009. 12 Pexiganan for mild diabetic foot infections We acquired in the MacroChem acquisition the exclusive worldwide rights for drug uses of pexiganan, a novel, small peptide anti-infective for topical treatment of patients with mild diabetic foot infection (DFI). These rights were acquired from Genaera in October 2007. There continues to be a very large and growing incidence of diabetes, approximately 20 million diabetics in the U.S. alone, and as a result a growing number of diabetic foot infections in the U.S. There is also a lack of effective topical anti-infectives to treat diabetic foot infection. We believe that pexiganan could fill an important unmet medical need for a topical anti-infective treatment and provide a significant commercial opportunity with an addressable market of approximately 3.5 million diabetic foot infections annually. Diabetic foot ulcers are normally treated by systemic antibiotics, giving rise to adverse side-effect and contributing to the increase of resistant bacteria. Clinical trials previously conducted by Genaera include two Phase 3 trials submitted in a New Drug Application (NDA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1998. At that time, outstanding issues with CMC (Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls) and an FDA request for one additional controlled trial precluded approval. MacroChem had made progress in addressing the CMC issues. In recent years there have been many advances in the manufacture of peptides, a better understanding of the treatment of diabetic foot infection, improvements in clinical trial design and execution, and more clarity concerning regulatory requirements for topical anti-infectives. EcoNail for Onychomycosis Onychomycosis, a fungal infection of the nail, is predominantly an infection of the toe nail bed and nail plate underlying the surface of a nail. Typical symptoms of onychomycosis can include: · nail discoloration; · nail thickening; · cracking and fissuring of the nail plate; and · in severe cases, inflammation, pain and secondary infection of the nail bed and adjacent skin. According to Fitzpatrick’s Dermatology in General Medicine (Sixth Edition), onychomycosis is a common disease, the prevalence of which varies by geographic region and ranges from approximately 2% to 18% of the worldwide population, with up to 48% of the population experiencing onychomycosis at least once by age 70. According to an article published in 2000 in the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, a large scale study found that the prevalence of onychomycosis in the normal population of North America was approximately 14%. Current treatment options for onychomycosis include oral drugs, debridement (filing, trimming and scraping), nail avulsion (surgical or chemical excision of the infected nail plate) and drug therapies. There are two oral therapies marketed for the treatment of onychomycosis in the U.S.: Lamisil (terbinafine) and Sporanox (itraconazole). The leading oral treatment, Lamisil, has a complete cure rate of approximately 38%, but also has a 15% relapse rate. Sporanox has a complete cure rate of approximately 14%. Complete cure refers to mycological cure, or simultaneous occurrence of a negative KOH (a potassium hydroxide staining method for direct microscopic examination of nail scrapings) and a negative fungal culture, plus clinical cure, or clearance of all signs of infection. One risk associated with each of the oral treatments, both of which undergo substantial first pass metabolism by the liver, is liver disease. As a result, patients must continually monitor their liver function for signs of failure, including fatigue, anorexia, nausea and/or vomiting, jaundice, dark urine or pale stools. Such monitoring typically requires blood tests and associated office visits, which can impact patient compliance. In the rare case that liver failure occurs, it can result in death or the need for a liver transplant. Mechanical debridement, which is a traditional podiatric approach to onychomycosis that reduces the thickness of the nail, is not a cure for onychomycosis and requires time, specialized instruments and experience. Nail avulsion, which requires surgical or chemical removal of the nail plate causes discomfort and traumatizes the nail bed. The only topical onychomycosis drug currently marketed in the U.S. is Penlac® (ciclopirox), a nail lacquer which has a complete cure rate of less than 10% and requires up to 48 weeks of treatment, including periodic removal of any unattached infected nail by a health care professional. 13 Topically delivered lacquer formulations, like EcoNail, have specific advantages over other existing oral treatments because they are applied like nail polish, treat fungal nail infections locally, and facilitate close and extended contact between an antifungal drug and the outer, or dorsal, nail surface. Developers of topical nail lacquers for onychomycosis face two major challenges. First, lacquers with acceptable hardness, durability and drying time tend not to release antifungal drugs from the lacquer matrix readily. Second, most antifungal drugs do not penetrate into the deep, or ventral, nail plate adequately when applied to the outer, or dorsal, nail surface, which results in insufficient antifungal concentrations at the site of infection. EcoNail is a topically applied lacquer formulation based on MacroChem’s proprietary SEPA (Soft Enhancer of Percutaneous Absorption ) topical drug delivery technology, and containing econazole, for the topical treatment of onychomycosis. Econazole, a topical antifungal agent, effectively inhibits in vitro growth of the fungi most commonly implicated in onychomycosis. In contrast to SEPA’s action in disrupting the lipid bilayer of the skin, SEPA as used in EcoNail works to soften the lacquer in which econazole is contained, thereby allowing for more rapid and complete release of econazole from the lacquer into and through the nail. A 14-day study of lacquers containing radioactively labeled econazole on human non-diseased cadaver nails demonstrated that EcoNail delivered approximately seven times more econazole to the ventral nail and 200 times more econazole to the nail bed than a similar lacquer without SEPA. In this study, EcoNail delivered to the ventral nail more than 14,000 times the minimum concentration of econazole needed to inhibit the two most common fungi associated with onychomycosis. In addition, we believe that EcoNail, as a locally applied lacquer, will have a reduced risk of systemic side effects compared with oral treatments for onychomycosis. Following MacroChem laboratory studies, MacroChem conducted a Phase 1 tolerance/human exposure clinical trial of EcoNail in patients with onychomycosis and released six week safety and tolerance data from that trial in November 2004. The trial was a randomized, double-blind, controlled Phase 1 trial conducted at two U.S. clinical sites. Nineteen patients with onychomycosis of the toenails completed the safety-tolerability segment of the study, in which all fingernails and toenails were treated twice daily for six weeks with either EcoNail or a control nail lacquer. The six week safety-tolerability segment was followed by an open-label segment of the trial in which all patients received EcoNail applied once daily to all nails for an additional 12 weeks to extend patient exposure experience. The main objectives of this Phase 1 study were to test the safety and local tolerability of EcoNail in patients with onychomycosis and to determine systemic exposure to econazole. In this study, EcoNail was well tolerated, and investigators reported no serious drug-related adverse events. Serum assays showed no detectable levels of econazole, further supporting EcoNail’s systemic safety profile. Full data from the 18 week trial were presented in May 2005 at the annual meeting of the Society for Investigative Dermatology. MacroChem commenced a 48 week, blinded open label Phase 2 efficacy study of EcoNail in the third quarter of 2006. This study was being conducted through a contract research organization with significant experience in onychomycosis trials. The study protocol allows for an interim review of the data after all patients have completed 24 weeks of treatment. On November 6, 2007, MacroChem announced that clinical photographs of 37 patients were assessed by an external expert panel, and 20 (54%) showed evidence of clinical improvement, defined as an increase in uninvolved nail of onychomycosis. All week 24 cultures were negative for dermatophyte growth, and the panel observed no signs of local irritation related to the once-daily EcoNail treatment. In a consensus clinical judgment by the external panel, 13 of 37 (32%) of patients demonstrated greater than or equal to 25% clinical improvement. Other Key Developments On March 5, 2009, we announced results from our Phase 2 ovarian cancer clinical trial. We reported positive safety and efficacy results from our Phase 2 monotherapy clinical study of ProLindacTM in late-stage, heavily pretreated ovarian cancer patients. In this monotherapy study 66% of patients who received the highest dose achieved clinically meaningful disease stabilization according to RECIST criteria. No patient in any dose group exhibited any signs of acute neurotoxicity, which is a major adverse side-effect of the approved DACH platinum, Eloxatin, and ProLindac was well tolerated overall. The maximum tolerated dose of ProLindac was established as well as the recommended dose levels for future combination studies. 14 On February 25, 2009, we closed our acquisition of MacroChem Corporation through the issuance of an aggregate of approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock. In addition, we cancelled all of the outstanding debt of MacroChem in exchange for the issuance of 859,172 shares of our unregistered common stock. On September 3, 2008, we announced that we had retained Piper Jaffray to augment ongoing business development efforts with the goal of establishing additional strategic development and commercialization partnerships for our product pipeline. The Piper Jaffray healthcare investment banking team will focus on partnering opportunities for ProLindac, Angiolix and the Cobalamin programs. On August 27, 2008, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with MacroChem Corporation in order for Access to loan MacroChem amounts to keep certain of their licenses and vendors current. As of December 31, 2008, we had loaned MacroChem $635,000. On August 18, 2008, we announced the signing of a definitive licensing agreement under which Milestone Biosciences, LLC will market MuGard in the United States and Canada. On June 4, 2008, we announced the signing of a definitive licensing agreement with Jiangsu Aosaikang Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd (“ASK”). Under this agreement ASK will manufacture, develop and commercialize our proprietary product ProLindac for the Greater China Region which includes the People’s Republic of China, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Macau Special Administrative Region and Taiwan. Under the terms of the agreement ASK paid Access an upfront fee and will pay subsequent milestone payments along with a royalty upon commercialization of ProLindac. In addition, in cooperation with Access, ASK has committed to fund two Phase 2 studies for ProLindac in colorectal cancer and one other indication to be determined by both parties. On February 4, 2008, we entered into securities purchase agreements (the “Purchase Agreements”) with accredited investors whereby we agreed to sell 272.5 shares of our preferred stock, designated “Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock”, par value $0.01 per share, for an issue price of $10,000 per share, (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) and agreed to issue warrants to purchase 499,584 shares of our common stock, which includes placement agent warrants to purchase 45,417 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $3.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase price for the Series A Preferred Stock and Warrants of $2,725,000. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock are convertible into common stock at the initial conversion price of $3.00 per share. On January 14, 2008, we announced the signing of a definitive licensing agreement under which RHEI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. will market and manufacture MuGard in the Peoples Republic of China and certain Southeast Asian countries. RHEI will also obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for MuGard in the territory. On January 4, 2008, we closed our acquisition of Somanta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In connection with the acquisition, Access issued an aggregate of approximately 1.5 million shares of Access Pharmaceuticals, Inc. common stock to the common and preferred shareholders of Somanta as consideration. In addition, Access exchanged all outstanding warrants of Somanta for warrants to purchase 191,991 shares of Access common stock at exercise prices ranging between $18.55 and $69.57 per share. In addition, $1,576,000 of Somanta Pharmaceuticals’ acquired accounts payable were settled by issuing 538,508 shares of Access common stock and warrants to purchase 246,753 shares of Access common stock at an exercise price of $3.50 per share. The value of the shares and warrants issued was determined based on the fair value of the accounts payable. Access was incorporated in Wyoming in 1974 as Chemex Corporation, and in 1983 Access changed its name to Chemex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Access changed its state of incorporation from Wyoming to Delaware on June 30, 1989. In 1996 Access merged with Access Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a private Texas corporation, and changed its name to Access Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Access’ principal executive office is located at 2600 Stemmons Freeway, Suite 176, Dallas, Texas 75207; Access’ telephone number is (214) 905-5100. Patents We believe that the value of technology both to us and to our potential corporate partners is established and enhanced by our broad intellectual property positions. Consequently, we have already been issued and seek to obtain additional U.S. and foreign patent protection for products under development and for new discoveries. Patent applications are filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and, when appropriate, with the Paris Convention's Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) Countries (most major countries in Western Europe and the Far East) for our inventions and prospective products. 15 Two U.S. patent applications and two European patent applications are under review for our mucoadhesive liquid technology. Our patent applications cover a range of products utilizing our mucoadhesive liquid technology for the management of the various phases of mucositis. Three U.S. patents and two European patents have issued and one U.S. patent and two European patent applications are pending for polymer platinum compounds. The two patents and patent applications are the result in part of our collaboration with The School of Pharmacy, University of London, from which the technology has been licensed and include a synthetic polymer, hydroxypropylmethacrylamide incorporating platinates, that can be used to exploit enhanced permeability and retention in tumors and control drug release. The patents and patent applications include a pharmaceutical composition for use in tumor treatment comprising a polymer-platinum compound through linkages that are designed to be cleaved under selected conditions to yield a platinum which is selectively released at a tumor site. The patents and patent applications also include methods for improving the pharmaceutical properties of platinum compounds. Thiarabine is subject to two process patents that expire in 2018, one use patent that expires in 2019, as well as patent applications that provide additional protection to the manufacturing process and use. In 2007, MacroChem acquired exclusive worldwide rights for drug uses of pexiganan, a novel, small peptide anti-infective for topical treatment of patients with mild diabetic foot infection (DFI) from Genaera Corporation (Genaera). Under the terms of the license agreement, Genaera was paid an initial fee of $1 million through February 1, 2008. The deal terms also include payments of $7 million to Genaera upon the achievement of certain clinical and regulatory milestones through approval, sales-based milestones of up to $35 million, and 10% royalty payments on net sales. In addition, we assumed all clinical development, manufacturing and regulatory activities for pexiganan. We own six composition of matter and use patents, with expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2019, for the combination of SEPA with numerous existing classes of drugs, including antifungals and human sex hormones. The patent for SEPA combined with antifungals covers the combination of SEPA and econazole in EcoNail, and the patent for SEPA combined with human sex hormones covers the combination of SEPA and testosterone in Opterone. With respect to Access’ MacroDerm technology, we have three U.S. patents covering the chemical composition and use of the MacroDerm polymers, which expire in 2015. In addition to the patent activity, we have trademarks for the marks SEPA, EcoNail, MacroDerm and Opterone. We have 13 key use patents related to Phenylbutyrate which have been issued to the NIH and licensed to us. We have two patented Cobalamin-mediated targeted therapeutic technologies: - the use of vitamin B12 to target the transcobalamin II receptor which is upregulated in numerous diseases including cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, certain neurological and autoimmune disorders with two U.S. patents and three U.S. and four European patent applications; and - oral delivery of a wide variety of molecules which cannot otherwise be orally administered, utilizing the active transport mechanism which transports vitamin B12 into the systemic circulation with six U.S. patents and two European patents and one U.S. and one European patent application. We also have intellectual property in connection with the use of another B vitamin, folic acid, for targeting of polymer therapeutics. Enhanced tumor delivery is achieved by targeting folate receptors, which are upregulated in certain tumor types. We have two U.S. and two European patent applications related to folate polymer therapeutics. We have two patents relating to composition and the humanization of Angiolix patents which expire in 2015. We have one patent and one patent application which protects the composition of matter and use of Prodrax molecules. These will expire in 2023. 16 Our patents for the following technologies expire in the years and during the date ranges indicated below: · Mucoadhesive technology in 2021, · ProLindac™ in 2021, · Thiarabine in 2018, · Pexiganan in 2016, · EcoNail in 2019, · Phenylbutyrate between 2011 and 2016, · Angiolix® in 2015, · Prodrax in 2023, · Cobalamin mediated technology between 2009 and 2019 In addition to issued patents, we have a number of pending patent applications. If issued, the patents underlying theses applications could extend the patent life of our technologies beyond the dates listed above. We have a strategy of maintaining an ongoing line of patent continuation applications for each major category of patentable carrier and delivery technology. By this approach, we are extending the intellectual property protection of our basic targeting technology and initial agents to cover additional specific carriers and agents, some of which are anticipated to carry the priority dates of the original applications. Government Regulation We are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, principally by the FDA, and, to a lesser extent, by other federal and state agencies as well as comparable agencies in foreign countries where registration of products will be pursued. Although a number of our formulations incorporate extensively tested drug substances, because the resulting formulations make claims of enhanced efficacy and/or improved side effect profiles, they are expected to be classified as new drugs by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, shipping and record keeping of our products. The FDA has the authority to approve or not approve new drug applications and inspect research, clinical and manufacturing records and facilities. Among the requirements for drug approval and testing is that the prospective manufacturer's facilities and methods conform to the FDA's Code of Good Manufacturing Practices regulations, which establish the minimum requirements for methods to be used in, and the facilities or controls to be used during, the production process. Such facilities are subject to ongoing FDA inspection to insure compliance. The steps required before a pharmaceutical product may be produced and marketed in the U.S. include preclinical tests, the filing of an IND with the FDA, which must become effective pursuant to FDA regulations before human clinical trials may commence, numerous phases of clinical testing and the FDA approval of a New Drug Application (“NDA”) prior to commercial sale. Preclinical tests are conducted in the laboratory, usually involving animals, to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the potential product. The results of preclinical tests are submitted as part of the IND application and are fully reviewed by the FDA prior to granting the sponsor permission to commence clinical trials in humans. All trials are conducted under International Conference on Harmonization, or ICH, good clinical practice guidelines. All investigator sites and sponsor facilities are subject to FDA inspection to insure compliance. Clinical trials typically involve a three-phase process. Phase 1 the initial clinical evaluations, consists of administering the drug and testing for safety and tolerated dosages and in some indications such as cancer and HIV, as preliminary evidence of efficacy in humans. Phase 2 involves a study to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug for a particular indication and to determine optimal dosage and dose interval and to identify possible adverse side effects and risks in a larger patient group. When a product is found safe, an initial efficacy is established in Phase 2, it is then evaluated in Phase 3 clinical trials. Phase 3 trials consist of expanded multi-location testing for efficacy and safety to evaluate the overall benefit to risk index of the investigational drug in relationship to the disease treated. The results of preclinical and human clinical testing are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA for approval to commence commercial sales. 17 The process of forming the requisite testing, data collection, analysis and compilation of an IND and an NDA is labor intensive and costly and may take a protracted time period. In some cases, tests may have to be redone or new tests instituted to comply with FDA requests. Review by the FDA may also take considerable time and there is no guarantee that an NDA will be approved. Therefore, we cannot estimate with any certainty the length of the approval cycle. We are also governed by other federal, state and local laws of general applicability, such as laws regulating working conditions, employment practices, as well as environmental protection. Competition The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is characterized by intense competition, rapid product development and technological change. Competition is intense among manufacturers of prescription pharmaceuticals and other product areas where we may develop and market products in the future. Most of our potential competitors are large, well established pharmaceutical, chemical or healthcare companies with considerably greater financial, marketing, sales and technical resources than are available to us. Additionally, many of our potential competitors have research and development capabilities that may allow such competitors to develop new or improved products that may compete with our product lines. Our potential products could be rendered obsolete or made uneconomical by the development of new products to treat the conditions to be addressed by our developments, technological advances affecting the cost of production, or marketing or pricing actions by one or more of our potential competitors. Our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected by any one or more of such developments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research activities and seeking patent protection and may commercialize products on their own or with the assistance of major health care companies in areas where we are developing product candidates. We are aware of certain development projects for products to treat or prevent certain diseases targeted by us, the existence of these potential products or other products or treatments of which we are not aware, or products or treatments that may be developed in the future, may adversely affect the marketability of products developed by us. In the area of advanced drug delivery, which is the focus of our early stage research and development activities, a number of companies are developing or evaluating enhanced drug delivery systems. We expect that technological developments will occur at a rapid rate and that competition is likely to intensify as various alternative delivery system technologies achieve similar if not identical advantages. Even if our products are fully developed and receive required regulatory approval, of which there can be no assurance, we believe that our products can only compete successfully if marketed by a company having expertise and a strong presence in the therapeutic area. Consequently, we do not currently plan to establish an internal marketing organization. By forming strategic alliances with major and regional pharmaceutical companies, management believes that our development risks should be minimized and that the technology potentially could be more rapidly developed and successfully introduced into the marketplace. Amgen Inc., Carrington Laboratories Inc., CuraGen Corporation, Cytogen Corporation, Endo Pharmaceuticals, MGI Pharma Inc., Nuvelo, Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. are developing products to treat mucositis that may compete with Access’ mucoadhesive liquid technology. The following products may compete with polymer platinate: • Cisplatin, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, the originator of the drug, and several generic manufacturers; • Carboplatin, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb in the US; and • Oxaliplatin, marketed exclusively by Sanofi-Aventis. 18 The following companies are working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with Access’ polymer platinate: • Antigenics and Regulon are developing liposomal platinum formulations; • Poniard Pharmaceuticals is developing both i.v. and oral platinum formulations; • Nanocarrier and Debio are developing micellar nanoparticle platinum formulations; and • American Pharmaceutical Partners, Cell Therapeutics, Daiichi, and Enzon are developing alternate drugs in combination with polymers and other drug delivery systems. Thiarabine’s competitors are Eli Lilly and Company, Bayer Healthcare, SciClone Pharmaceuticals and Genzyme. With respect to mild diabetic foot infection (DFI), there is currently no topical treatment approved by the FDA. In addition, we are not aware of any other companies working on a topical treatment for mild diabetic foot infection. With respect to onychomycosis, Novartis AG and Johnson & Johnson each offer an orally administered antifungal therapy and Sanofi Aventis (Dermik Laboratories) offers a topical nail lacquer therapy for treating fungal infections of the nail. A number of other companies, including Nexmed, Inc./Novartis AG, Schering-Plough/Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Ivrea/MediQuest Therapeutics, Inc., are also developing topical therapies for these infections. Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with our Sodium Phenylbutyrate are Medicis Pharmaceuticals which currently sells Sodium Phenylbutyrate (Buphenyl®) for the treatment of a urea cycle disorder, hyperuremia. We are aware of numerous products in development for brain cancers. We are aware of several products being developed by academic and commercial organizations targeting glioblastoma. Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with our vitamin mediated drug delivery system are Bristol-Myers Squibb, Centocor (acquired by Johnson & Johnson), Endocyte, GlaxoSmithKline, Imclone and Xoma which are developing targeted monoclonal antibody therapy. BioDelivery Sciences International, Biovail Corporation, Cellgate, CIMA Labs, Inc., EUSA Pharma, Depomed Inc., Emisphere Technologies, Inc., Eurand, Flamel Technologies, Nobex and Xenoport are developing products which compete with our oral drug delivery system. We are targeting a propriety gene product which is expressed by cancerous tumors. We are not aware of any other organization developing similar products targeting this type of protein. Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with our Prodrax are Novocea, Inc., which has exclusively licensed from KuDOS Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Astra Zeneca, a small molecule prodrug that is selectively activated by low oxygen tumors that is similar to our Prodrax, and Novocea is developing this small molecule prodrug in a similar fashion to Prodrax. Many of these competitors have and employ greater financial and other resources, including larger research and development, marketing and manufacturing organizations. As a result, our competitors may successfully develop technologies and drugs that are more effective or less costly than any that we are developing or which would render our technology and future products obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, some of our competitors have greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical and clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we do. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their drugs before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage. Drugs resulting from our research and development efforts or from its joint efforts with collaborative partners therefore may not be commercially competitive with its competitors' existing products or products under development. 19 Suppliers Some materials used by us are specialized. We obtain materials from several suppliers based in different countries around the world. If materials are unavailable from one supplier we have alternate suppliers available. Employees As of March 30, 2009, we had nine full time employees, four of whom have advanced scientific degrees. We have never experienced employment-related work stoppages and consider that we maintain good relations with our personnel. In addition, to complement our internal expertise, we have contracts with scientific consultants, contract research organizations and university research laboratories that specialize in various aspects of drug development including clinical development, regulatory affairs, toxicology, process scale-up and preclinical testing. Web Availability We make available free of charge through our website, www.accesspharma.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K and other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission as well as certain of our corporate governance policies, including the charters for the Board of Directors’ audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees and its code of ethics, corporate governance guidelines and whistleblower policy. We will also provide to any person without charge, upon request, a copy of any of the foregoing materials. Any such request must be made in writing to us at: Access Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 2600 Stemmons Freeway, Suite 176, Dallas, TX 75207 attn: Investor Relations. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Without obtaining adequate capital funding, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 contained a fourth explanatory paragraph to reflect its significant doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of our history of losses and our liquidity position. If we are unable to obtain adequate capital funding in the future, we may not be able to continue as a going concern, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operations, and investors’ investment in us may decline. We have experienced a history of losses, we expect to incur future losses and we may be unable to obtain necessary additional capital to fund operations in the future. We have recorded minimal revenue to date and have incurred an accumulated deficit of approximately $134.9 million through December 31, 2008. Net losses for the years ended 2008 and 2007 were $20.6 million and $36.7 million, respectively. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development activities related to our efforts to develop clinical drug candidates and from the associated administrative costs. We expect to incur additional operating losses over the next several years. We also expect cumulative losses to increase if we expand research and development efforts and preclinical and clinical trials. Our net cash burn rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 was approximately $505,000 per month. We project our net cash burn rate from operations for the next twelve months to be approximately $115,000 per month. Capital expenditures are forecasted to be minor for the next twelve months. We require substantial capital for its development programs and operating expenses, to pursue regulatory clearances and to prosecute and defend its intellectual property rights. We believe that our existing capital resources, interest income, product sales, royalties and revenue from possible licensing agreements and collaborative agreements will be sufficient to fund our currently expected operating expenses and capital requirements into the first quarter of 2010. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to support our ongoing operations. If we do raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders would result and future investors may be granted rights superior to those of existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available to us through additional equity offerings, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs or to obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to issue additional equity securities or to relinquish rights to certain technologies or drug candidates that we would not otherwise issue or relinquish in order to continue independent operations. 20 We have issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock with rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. The issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock grant the holders of such preferred stock anti-dilution, dividend and liquidations rights that are superior to those held by the holders of our common stock. Should we issue additional shares of common stock for a price below $3.00 per share, the conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be lowered to the lowest issue price below $3.00 per share which will have the effect of diluting the holders of our common stock. We do not have operating revenue and it may never attain profitability. To date, we have funded its operations primarily through private sales of common stock, preferred stock and convertible notes. Contract research payments and licensing fees from corporate alliances and mergers have also provided funding for its operations. Our ability to achieve significant revenue or profitability depends upon our ability to successfully complete the development of drug candidates, to develop and obtain patent protection and regulatory approvals for our drug candidates and to manufacture and commercialize the resulting drugs. We sold its only revenue producing assets to Uluru, Inc. in October 2005. We are not expecting any significant revenues in the short-term from its other assets. Furthermore, we may not be able to ever successfully identify, develop, commercialize, patent, manufacture, obtain required regulatory approvals and market any additional products. Moreover, even if we do identify, develop, commercialize, patent, manufacture, and obtain required regulatory approvals to market additional products, we may not generate revenues or royalties from commercial sales of these products for a significant number of years, if at all. Therefore, our proposed operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise. In the next few years, our revenues may be limited to minimal product sales and royalties, any amounts that we receive under strategic partnerships and research or drug development collaborations that we may establish and, as a result, we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability in the future or to achieve significant revenues in order to fund its operations. Although we expect that the acquisition of MacroChem will result in benefits to the combined company the combined company may not realize those benefits because of integration and other challenges. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of the Company to integrate the business of MacroChem with the business of Access. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies, and may not result in the full benefits expected by Access and MacroChem. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; and • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. We may not successfully commercialize our drug candidates. Our drug candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products based on new technologies, and its failure to develop safe commercially viable drugs would severely limit its ability to become profitable or to achieve significant revenues. We may be unable to successfully commercialize our drug candidates because: · some or all of its drug candidates may be found to be unsafe or ineffective or otherwise fail to meet applicable regulatory standards or receive necessary regulatory clearances; · its drug candidates, if safe and effective, may be too difficult to develop into commercially viable drugs; · it may be difficult to manufacture or market its drug candidates on a large scale; · proprietary rights of third parties may preclude it from marketing its drug candidates; and · third parties may market superior or equivalent drugs. 21 The success of our research and development activities, upon which we primarily focuses, is uncertain. Our primary focus is on our research and development activities and the commercialization of compounds covered by proprietary biopharmaceutical patents and patent applications. Research and development activities, by their nature, preclude definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. Actual research and development costs, therefore, could exceed budgeted amounts and estimated time frames may require extension. Cost overruns, unanticipated regulatory delays or demands, unexpected adverse side effects or insufficient therapeutic efficacy will prevent or substantially slow our research and development effort and our business could ultimately suffer. We anticipate that we will remain principally engaged in research and development activities for an indeterminate, but substantial, period of time. We may be unable to successfully develop, market, or commercialize our products or our product candidates without establishing new relationships and maintaining current relationships. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of its potential pharmaceutical products may require us to enter into various arrangements with corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and others, in addition to its existing relationships with other parties. Specifically, we may seek to joint venture, sublicense or enter other marketing arrangements with parties that have an established marketing capability or we may choose to pursue the commercialization of such products on our own. We may, however, be unable to establish such additional collaborative arrangements, license agreements, or marketing agreements as we may deem necessary to develop, commercialize and market our potential pharmaceutical products on acceptable terms. Furthermore, if we maintain and establish arrangements or relationships with third parties, our business may depend upon the successful performance by these third parties of their responsibilities under those arrangements and relationships. Our ability to successfully commercialize, and market our product candidates could be limited if a number of these existing relationships were terminated. Furthermore, our strategy with respect to our polymer platinate program is to enter into a licensing agreement with a pharmaceutical company pursuant to which the further costs of developing a product would be shared with our licensing partner. Although we have had discussions with potential licensing partners with respect to its polymer platinate program, to date we have not entered into any licensing arrangement, other than for China and Korea. We may be unable to execute our licensing strategy for polymer platinate. We may be unable to successfully manufacture our products and our product candidates in clinical quantities or for commercial purposes without the assistance of contract manufacturers, which may be difficult for us to obtain and maintain. We have limited experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products in clinical quantities or for commercial purposes and we may not be able to manufacture any new pharmaceutical products that we may develop. As a result, we have established, and in the future intends to establish arrangements with contract manufacturers to supply sufficient quantities of products to conduct clinical trials and for the manufacture, packaging, labeling and distribution of finished pharmaceutical products if any of our potential products are approved for commercialization. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our potential pharmaceutical products on acceptable terms, our preclinical and human clinical testing schedule may be delayed, resulting in the delay of our clinical programs and submission of product candidates for regulatory approval, which could cause our business to suffer. Our business could suffer if there are delays or difficulties in establishing relationships with manufacturers to produce, package, label and distribute its finished pharmaceutical or other medical products, if any, market introduction and subsequent sales of such products. Moreover, contract manufacturers that we may use must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices, as required by the FDA. In this regard, the FDA will not issue a pre-market approval or product and establishment licenses, where applicable, to a manufacturing facility for the products until the manufacturing facility passes a pre-approval plant inspection. If we are unable to obtain or retain third party manufacturing on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to commercialize our products as planned. Our potential dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of its products may adversely affect our ability to generate profits or acceptable profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. 22 ProLindac™ is manufactured by third parties for Access’ Phase 2 clinical trials. Manufacturing is ongoing for the current clinical trials. Certain manufacturing steps are conducted by us to enable significant cost savings to be realized. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation which increases our cost of doing business and may affect our ability to commercialize any new products that we may develop. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the introduction of pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory, preclinical and clinical testing procedures and other costly and time-consuming procedures to establish our safety and efficacy. All of our drugs and drug candidates require receipt and maintenance of governmental approvals for commercialization. Preclinical and clinical trials and manufacturing of our drug candidates will be subject to the rigorous testing and approval processes of the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. The status of our principal products is as follows: ● A mucoadhesive liquid technology product, MuGard™, has received marketing approval by the FDA. ● ProLindac™ is in the planning stage for a Phase 2 trial in China, Korea and Europe. ● ProLindac™ has been approved for an additional Phase 1 trial in the US by the FDA. ● Thiarabine is in the planning stage for a Phase 2 trial in the United States. ● Pexiganan clinical work will proceed with a commercial partner. ● EcoNail will proceed with a commercial partner. ● Phenylbutyrate is in planning stage for a Phase 2 trial in the United States. ● Cobalamin™ mediated delivery technology is currently in the pre-clinical phase. ● Angiolix® is currently in the pre-clinical phase. ● Prodrax® is currently in the pre-clinical phase. ● Access also has other products in the preclinical phase. Due to the time consuming and uncertain nature of the drug candidate development process and the governmental approval process described above, we cannot assure you when we, independently or with our collaborative partners, might submit a NDA, for FDA or other regulatory review. Government regulation also affects the manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Government regulations may delay marketing of our potential drugs for a considerable or indefinite period of time, impose costly procedural requirements upon our activities and furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies or companies more experienced in regulatory affairs. Delays in obtaining governmental regulatory approval could adversely affect our marketing as well as our ability to generate significant revenues from commercial sales. Our drug candidates may not receive FDA or other regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, if regulatory approval of a drug candidate is granted, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which such drug may be marketed. Even if we obtain initial regulatory approvals for our drug candidates, our drugs and our manufacturing facilities would be subject to continual review and periodic inspection, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the marketing or manufacture of such drug, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. The FDA and other regulatory authorities stringently apply regulatory standards and failure to comply with regulatory standards can, among other things, result in fines, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. 23 The uncertainty associated with preclinical and clinical testing may affect our ability to successfully commercialize new products. Before we can obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our potential drugs, the drug candidates will be subject to extensive preclinical and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. Preclinical or clinical trials of any of our future drug candidates may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such drug candidates at all or to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. In this regard, for example, adverse side effects can occur during the clinical testing of a new drug on humans which may delay ultimate FDA approval or even lead it to terminate our efforts to develop the drug for commercial use. Companies in the biotechnology industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after demonstrating promising results in earlier trials. In particular, polymer platinate has taken longer to progress through clinical trials than originally planned. This extra time has not been related to concerns of the formulations but rather due to the lengthy regulatory process. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a drug candidate under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the drug candidate. A delay or failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our drug candidates could prevent us from successfully commercializing such candidates and we could incur substantial additional expenses in its attempts to further develop such candidates and obtain future regulatory approval. We may incur substantial product liability expenses due to the use or misuse of its products for which we may be unable to obtain insurance coverage. Our business exposes it to potential liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These risks will expand with respect to our drug candidates, if any, that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale and we may face substantial liability for damages in the event of adverse side effects or product defects identified with any of its products that are used in clinical tests or marketed to the public. We generally procure product liability insurance for drug candidates that are undergoing human clinical trials. Product liability insurance for the biotechnology industry is generally expensive, if available at all, and as a result, we may be unable to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in a sufficient amount in the future, if at all. We may be unable to satisfy any claims for which we may be held liable as a result of the use or misuse of products which we have developed, manufactured or sold and any such product liability claim could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We may incur significant liabilities if we fail to comply with stringent environmental regulations or if we did not comply with these regulations in the past. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such material and certain waste products. Although we believe that our activities and our safety procedures for storing, using, handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. Intense competition may limit our ability to successfully develop and market commercial products. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. Amgen Inc., Carrington Laboratories Inc., CuraGen Corporation, Cytogen Corporation, Endo Pharmaceuticals, MGI Pharma Inc., Nuvelo, Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. are developing products to treat mucositis that may compete with our mucoadhesive liquid technology. The following products may compete with polymer platinate: • Cisplatin, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, the originator of the drug, and several generic manufacturers; • Carboplatin, marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb in the US; and • Oxaliplatin, marketed exclusively by Sanofi-Aventis. 24 The following companies are working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with our polymer platinate: • Antigenics and Regulon are developing liposomal platinum formulations; • Poniard Pharmaceuticals is developing both i.v. and oral platinum formulations; • Nanocarrier and Debio are developing micellar nanoparticle platinum formulations; and • American Pharmaceutical Partners, Cell Therapeutics, Daiichi, and Enzon are developing alternate drugs in combination with polymers and other drug delivery systems. Thiarabine’s competitors are Eli Lilly and Company, Bayer Healthcare, SciClone Pharmaceuticals and Genzyme. With respect to mild diabetic foot infection (DFI), there is currently no topical treatment approved by the FDA. In addition, we are not aware of any other companies working on a topical treatment for mild diabetic foot infection. With respect to onychomycosis, Novartis AG and Johnson & Johnson each offer an orally administered antifungal therapy and Sanofi Aventis (Dermik Laboratories) offers a topical nail lacquer therapy for treating fungal infections of the nail. A number of other companies, including Nexmed, Inc./Novartis AG, Schering-Plough/Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Ivrea/MediQuest Therapeutics, Inc., are also developing topical therapies for these infections. Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with our Sodium Phenylbutyrate are Medicis Pharmaceuticals which currently sells Sodium Phenylbutyrate (Buphenyl®) for the treatment of a urea cycle disorder, hyperuremia. We are aware of numerous products in development for brain cancers. We are aware of several products being developed by academic and commercial organizations targeting glioblastoma. Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with our vitamin mediated drug delivery system are Bristol-Myers Squibb, Centocor (acquired by Johnson & Johnson), Endocyte, GlaxoSmithKline, Imclone and Xoma which are developing targeted monoclonal antibody therapy. BioDelivery Sciences International, Biovail Corporation, Cellgate, CIMA Labs, Inc., EUSA Pharma, Depomed Inc., Emisphere Technologies, Inc., Eurand, Flamel Technologies, Nobex and Xenoport are developing products which compete with our oral drug delivery system. We are targeting a propriety gene product which is expressed by cancerous tumors. We are not aware of any other organization developing similar products targeting this type of protein. Companies working on therapies and formulations that may be competitive with our Prodrax are Novocea, Inc., which has exclusively licensed from KuDOS Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Astra Zeneca, a small molecule prodrug that is selectively activated by low oxygen tumors that is similar to our Prodrax, and Novocea is developing this small molecule prodrug in a similar fashion to Prodrax. 25 Many of these competitors have and employ greater financial and other resources, including larger research and development, marketing and manufacturing organizations. As a result, our competitors may successfully develop technologies and drugs that are more effective or less costly than any that we are developing or which would render our technology and future products obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, some of our competitors have greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical and clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA or other regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we do. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their drugs before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage. Drugs resulting from our research and development efforts or from its joint efforts with collaborative partners therefore may not be commercially competitive with its competitors' existing products or products under development. We depend on licenses from third parties and the maintenance of its licenses are necessary for our success. We, as a result of our recent acquisition of MacroChem Corporation, have obtained rights to some product candidates through license agreements with various third party licensors as follows: · A license for Thiarabine was acquired from Southern Research Institute of Birmingham, Alabama. · A license for Sodium Phenylbutyrate was acquired from the NIH. Thirteen key use patents have been issued to the NIH and licensed by us. We, as a result of our acquisition of Somanta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in January 2008, have obtained rights to some product candidates through license agreements with various third party licensors as follows: • Exclusive Patent and Know-how Sub-license Agreement between Somanta and Immunodex, Inc. dated August 18, 2005, as amended; • Patent and Know-how Assignment and License Agreement between Somanta and De Montfort University dated March 20, 2003; • Patent and Know-how Assignment and License Option Agreement between Somanta and The School of Pharmacy, University of London dated March 16, 2004, as amended on September 21, 2005; and • The Phenylbutyrate Co-Development and Sublicense Agreement between Somanta and Virium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated February 16, 2005, as amended. We are dependent upon these licenses for our rights to develop and commercialize our product candidates. While we believe we are in compliance with our obligations under the licenses, certain licenses may be terminated or converted to non-exclusive licenses by the licensor if we breach, or have breached the terms of the license. We cannot guarantee you that the licenses will not be terminated or converted in the future. While we expect that we will be able to continue to identify licensable product candidates or research suitable for licensing and commercialization by it, there can be no assurance that this will occur. 26 Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates will substantially depend upon the availability of reimbursement funds for the costs of the resulting drugs and related treatments. The successful commercialization of, and the interest of potential collaborative partners to invest in the development of its drug candidates, may depend substantially upon reimbursement of the costs of the resulting drugs and related treatments at acceptable levels from government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, including health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. Limited reimbursement for the cost of any drugs that we develop may reduce the demand for, or price of such drugs, which would hamper its ability to obtain collaborative partners to commercialize its drugs, or to obtain a sufficient financial return on its own manufacture and commercialization of any future drugs. The market may not accept any pharmaceutical products that we successfully develop. The drugs that we are attempting to develop may compete with a number of well-established drugs manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any drugs developed by it will depend on a number of factors, including the establishment and demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of its drug candidates, the potential advantage of our drug candidates over existing therapies and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. Physicians, patients or the medical community in general may not accept or use any drugs that we may develop independently or with its collaborative partners and if they do not, our business could suffer. Trends toward managed health care and downward price pressures on medical products and services may limit its ability to profitably sell any drugs that we may develop. Lower prices for pharmaceutical products may result from: · third-party payers' increasing challenges to the prices charged for medical products and services; · the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of HMOs and similar organizations that can control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products; and · legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, including practice protocols and guidelines and clinical pathways, and the effect of any healthcare reform, could limit our ability to profitably sell any drugs that we may successfully develop. Moreover, any future legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement, may cause its business to suffer. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain U.S. and foreign patent protection for our drug candidates and processes, preserve our trade secrets and operate our business without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnological inventions and the scope of claims made under such patents are still developing and there is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The patent position of a biotechnology firm is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. We cannot assure you that any existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not subsequently be challenged, infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. As a result, although we, together with our subsidiaries, are either the owner or licensee to 34 U.S. patents and to 10 U.S. patent applications now pending, and 5 European patents and 13 European patent applications, we cannot assure you that any additional patents will issue from any of the patent applications owned by, or licensed to, it. Furthermore, any rights that we may have under issued patents may not provide it with significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially viable. Our patents for the following technologies expire in the years and during the date ranges indicated below: · Mucoadhesive technology in 2021, · ProLindac™ in 2021, · Thiarabine in 2018, · Pexiganan in 2016, · EcoNail in 2019, · Phenylbutyrate between 2011 and 2016, · Angiolix® in 2015, · Prodrax in 2023, · Cobalamin mediated technology between 2009 and 2019 27 In addition to issued patents, we have a number of pending patent applications. If issued, the patents underlying theses applications could extend the patent life of its technologies beyond the dates listed above. Patents may have been granted to third parties or may be granted covering products or processes that are necessary or useful to the development of our drug candidates. If our drug candidates or processes are found to infringe upon the patents or otherwise impermissibly utilize the intellectual property of others, our development, manufacture and sale of such drug candidates could be severely restricted or prohibited. In such event, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties to utilize the patents or proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we become involved in litigation regarding our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others, the potential cost of such litigation, regardless of the strength of its legal position, and the potential damages that we could be required to pay could be substantial. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of its senior management and scientific team, including its President and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey B. Davis. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could delay or prevent the achievement of its research, development, marketing, or product commercialization objectives. While we have employment agreements with Jeffrey B. Davis, David P. Nowotnik, PhD its Senior Vice President Research and Development, and Stephen B. Thompson, its Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, their employment may be terminated by them or us at any time. Mr. Davis’, Dr. Nowotnik's and Mr. Thompson’s agreements expire within one year and are extendable each year on the anniversary date. We do not have employment contracts with its other key personnel. We do not maintain any "key-man" insurance policies on any of its key employees and we do not intend to obtain such insurance. In addition, due to the specialized scientific nature of its business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. In view of the stage of its development and its research and development programs, we have restricted its hiring to research scientists and a small administrative staff and we have made only limited investments in manufacturing, production, sales or regulatory compliance resources. There is intense competition among major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, however, and we may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these personnel. An investment in our common stock may be less attractive because it is not traded on a recognized public market. Our common stock has traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB since June 5, 2006. From February 1, 2006 until June 5, 2006 we traded on the “Pink Sheets” after our common stock was de-listed from trading on AMEX. The OTCBB and Pink Sheets are viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our common stock. Our common stock is subject to Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell its common stock to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" (as defined in Rule 501(c) of the Securities Act). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule adversely affects the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and purchasers of its common stock to sell their shares of our common stock. Additionally, our common stock is subject to SEC regulations applicable to "penny stock." Penny stock includes any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule proscribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered by a broker-dealer to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for our common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock that disclose recent price information for the penny stock and information of the limited market for penny stocks. These requirements adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. Ownership of our shares is concentrated in the hands of a few investors which could limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence the direction of the company. 29 As calculated by the SEC rules of beneficial ownership, SCO Capital Partners LLC and affiliates, Larry N. Feinberg (Oracle Partners LP, Oracle Institutional Partners LP and Oracle Investment Management Inc.), and Lake End Capital LLC each beneficially owned approximately 59.0%, 8.3% and 11.7%, respectively, of our common stock as of March 30, 2009. Accordingly, they collectively may have the ability to significantly influence or determine the election of all of our directors or the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of our other stockholders. We may be required to pay liquidated damages to certain investors if we do not maintain an effective registration statement relating to common stock issuable upon conversion of Series A Preferred stock or upon exercise of certain warrants. Pursuant to issuing Series A Preferred Stock and warrants, we entered into an Investor Rights Agreement with the purchasers of Series A Preferred Stock. The Investor Rights Agreement requires, among other things, that we maintain an effective registration statement for common stock issuable upon conversion of Series A Preferred Stock or upon exercise of certain warrants. If we fail to maintain such an effective registration statement it may be required to pay liquidated damages to the holders of such Series A Preferred Stock and warrants for the period of time in which an effective registration statement was not in place. Provisions of our charter documents could discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders and may have the effect of entrenching, and making it difficult to remove, management. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws and Stockholders Rights Plan may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. In particular, shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as our Board of Directors may determine, including, for example, rights to convert into our common stock. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of our preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and discourage these investors from acquiring a majority of our common stock. Further, the existence of these corporate governance provisions could have the effect of entrenching management and making it more difficult to change our management. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our operating results could be harmed. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate and improve our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm its operating results or cause us to fail to meet its reporting obligations. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on its stock price. Future sales by our stockholders could lower our stock price. Sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. Sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems acceptable or at all. Of the 11,315,272 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 30, 2009, 10,361,100 shares are, or will be, freely tradable without restriction, unless held by our “affiliates.” Some of these shares may be resold under Rule 144. The sale of the 10,809,539 shares issuable upon conversion of our preferred stock and 9,687,326 shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants could also lower the market price of our common stock. 30 ITEM 