ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following are certain risks that management believes are specific to Peoples' business. This should not be viewed as an all-inclusive list of risks or presenting the risk factors listed in any particular order. Additional risks that are not presently known or that Peoples presently deems to be immaterial could also have a material, adverse impact on Peoples' business, financial condition or results of operations.15Table of Contents•Conditions in the financial markets, the real estate markets and economic conditions generally may adversely affect Peoples' business. Beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing throughout 2011, negative developments in the capital markets resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and an economic downturn. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions decreased substantially causing the U.S. economy to be in a recession from December 2007 through June 2009. Since 2007, the general housing market also has been weak, resulting in decreased home prices and increased delinquencies and foreclosures. These conditions caused significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital or to merge with larger and stronger institutions. Some financial institutions have failed. Peoples' financial performance generally is highly dependent upon the business environment and economic conditions in the markets where it operates and, to a lesser extent, the U.S as a whole. The local economies of the majority of Peoples' market area historically have been less robust than the economy of the nation as a whole and typically are not subject to the same fluctuations as the national economy. In general, a favorable business environment and economic conditions are generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, the business environment and general economic conditions in 2011 were adverse for many households and businesses in the U.S. and worldwide. While some economic indicators show signs of improvement, many businesses, states and municipalities are still in serious difficulty, due to reduced cash flow and weakened financial condition. Further, there can be no assurance this improvement will continue. A lack of a return to favorable economic conditions in a reasonable timeframe could have an adverse affect on Peoples' asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, Peoples' financial condition and results of operations. Because a significant amount of Peoples' loans are secured by either commercial or residential real estate, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and Peoples' ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. •Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact Peoples or the businesses in which it is engaged.The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. Peoples is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, and Peoples Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC, and secondarily the FDIC. These regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund, not Peoples' common shareholders. Peoples' non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory agencies, including the SEC and state securities and insurance regulators.Regulations affecting banks and financial services businesses are undergoing continuous change, and management cannot predict the effect of those changes. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies could adversely affect Peoples' business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against Peoples could cause Peoples to devote significant time and resources to defending its business and may lead to penalties that materially affect Peoples and its shareholders. Further information about government regulation of Peoples' business can be found under the caption “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. •The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact Peoples' results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the U.S. There are a number of reform provisions that are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including Peoples and Peoples Bank, do business. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be implemented immediately and will require interpretation and rule making by federal regulators. Peoples is closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on Peoples 16Table of Contentsand Peoples Bank cannot currently be determined, the law and its implementing rules and regulations are likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on Peoples' and Peoples Bank's operations, all of which may have a material adverse affect on Peoples' operating results and financial condition. A detailed discussion regarding the Dodd-Frank Act can be found under the caption “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. •Removal or reduction in stimulus activities or financial stabilization efforts by the federal government and other agencies may significantly affect Peoples' financial condition and results of operations.The Federal Reserve Board, the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC and others have taken numerous actions to stimulate economic activity, as well as address the current liquidity and credit situation in the financial markets. These measures include actions to encourage loan restructuring and modification for homeowners; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; and coordinated efforts to address liquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The long-term effect of actions already taken as well as new legislation is unknown. Continued or renewed instability in the financial markets could weaken public confidence in financial institutions and adversely affect Peoples' ability to attract and retain new customers. Further, the removal or reduction in any of the economic stimulus or financial stabilization programs could cause higher market interest rates, which may have an adverse affect on Peoples' business, earnings and financial condition.•Defaults by larger financial institutions could adversely affect Peoples' business, earnings and financial condition.The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between and among the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This “systemic risk” may adversely affect Peoples' business.Additionally, Peoples' investment portfolio continues to include investments in individual bank-issued trust preferred securities. Under current market conditions, the fair value of these security types is based predominately on the present value of cash flows expected to be received in future periods. Significant defaults by other financial institutions could adversely affect conditions within the financial services industry, thereby causing investors to require higher rates of return for these investments. These factors could cause Peoples to recognize additional impairment losses on its investment in bank-issued trust preferred securities in future periods.•Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse affect on Peoples' earnings.The number of bank failures has increased significantly since 2007, which dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund. Also during this period, the FDIC and the U.S. Congress have instituted two programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and non-interest-bearing transactional accounts are fully insured (unlimited coverage) until the end of 2012. These actions have placed additional stress on the Deposit Insurance Fund. Since late 2008, the FDIC has taken various actions intended to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the Deposit Insurance Fund. These actions have included increasing assessment rates for all insured institutions, requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels, imposing a special assessment on all insured depository institutions for the second quarter of 2009 and requiring insured depository institutions to prepay their quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and full years 2010 through 2012. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that changed the deposit insurance assessment base and assessment rate schedule, adopted a new large-bank pricing assessment scheme, and set a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund. The rule, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, finalized a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund at 2 percent of insured deposits. The final rule went into effect beginning with the second quarter of 2011. Management does not expected these changes to have a material adverse effect on Peoples' future results of operations given the current structure of Peoples Bank's balance sheet. Peoples Bank has limited ability to control the amount of premiums it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures, the FDIC may be required to increase assessment rates or take actions similar to those taken during 2009. As a result, insured depository institutions, including Peoples Bank, may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums in future periods. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on Peoples' results of operations and ability to continue to pay dividends on its common shares at the current rate or at all.17Table of Contents•Changes in interest rates may adversely affect Peoples' profitability.Peoples' earnings are dependent to a significant degree on net interest income, which is the amount by which interest income exceeds interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Peoples' control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest Peoples receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) Peoples' ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of Peoples' financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of Peoples' mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, Peoples' net interest income and, therefore, earnings could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Management uses various measures to monitor interest rate risk and believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on Peoples' results of operations. Management also periodically adjusts the mix of assets and liabilities to manage interest rate risk. However, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' financial condition and results of operations. See the sections captioned “Interest Income and Expense” and “Interest Rate Sensitivity and Liquidity” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for further discussion related to Peoples' interest rate risk. •Peoples' exposure to credit risk could adversely affect Peoples' earnings and financial condition.There are certain risks inherent in making loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks inherent in dealing with borrowers and, in the case of loans secured by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral.Commercial and commercial real estate loans comprise a significant portion of Peoples' loan portfolio. Commercial loans generally are viewed as having a higher credit risk than residential real estate or consumer loans because they usually involve larger loan balances to a single borrower and are more susceptible to a risk of default during an economic downturn. Since Peoples' loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, and ultimately could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' earnings and financial condition.In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, Peoples may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. Peoples may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, Peoples may assume that the customer's audited financial statements conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“US GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Peoples may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Peoples' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that Peoples relies on financial statements that do not comply with US GAAP or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading.•Peoples' allowance for loan losses may be insufficient.Peoples maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable loan losses based on management's quarterly analysis of the loan portfolio. The determination of the allowance for loan losses requires management to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of Peoples' loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Additional information regarding Peoples' allowance for loan losses methodology and the sensitivity of the estimates can be found in the discussion of Peoples' “Critical Accounting Policies” included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.Peoples' estimation of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond Peoples' control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Peoples cannot be assured of the amount or timing of losses nor whether the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If Peoples' assumptions prove to be incorrect, Peoples' allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio, resulting in additions which could have a material adverse impact on Peoples' 18Table of Contentsfinancial condition and results of operations. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Peoples' allowance for loan losses as part of their examination process and may require management to increase the allowance or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the provision for loan losses would decrease Peoples' pretax and net income.•Changes in accounting standards, policies, estimates or procedures may impact Peoples' reported financial condition or results of operations.The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Peoples' Consolidated Financial Statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how Peoples records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Peoples could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements.The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, actual results may vary materially from management's estimates. Additional information regarding Peoples' critical accounting policies and the sensitivity of estimates can be found in the section captioned “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.•Peoples and Peoples Bank may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed.Peoples and Peoples Bank are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support their operations. If capital requirements are raised or if Peoples Bank experiences loan losses, additional capital may be needed. In addition, Peoples and Peoples Bank may elect to raise additional capital to support their businesses or to finance acquisitions, if any, or for other as yet unanticipated reasons. Their ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside their control. Therefore, there can be no assurance additional capital can be raised when needed or that capital can be raised on acceptable terms. The inability to raise capital may have a material adverse effect on Peoples' financial condition, results of operations and prospects. •The financial services industry is very competitive.Peoples experiences significant competition in originating loans, principally from other commercial banks, savings associations and credit unions. Several of Peoples' competitors have greater resources, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. This competition could reduce Peoples' net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that Peoples originates and the interest rates it may charge on these loans. Moreover, technology and other changes are allowing businesses and individuals to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that in the past had been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating the use of banks to complete financial transactions could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on Peoples' financial condition and results of operations. For a more complete discussion of Peoples' competitive environment, see “Competition” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. If Peoples is unable to compete effectively, Peoples would lose market share, which could reduce income generated from deposits, loans and other products.•Peoples' ability to pay dividends is limited.Peoples is a separate and distinct legal entity from Peoples' subsidiaries. Peoples receives nearly all of its revenue from dividends from Peoples Bank, which are limited by federal banking laws and regulations. These dividends also serve as the primary source of funds to pay dividends on Peoples' common shares. The inability of Peoples Bank to pay sufficient dividends to Peoples could have a material, adverse effect on its business. Further discussion of Peoples' ability to pay dividends can be found under the caption “Supervision and Regulation - Dividend Restrictions” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K and Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.•Peoples' business could be adversely affected by material breaches in security of its systems.Peoples collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Peoples and third party service providers. Peoples has security and backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan, to ensure the computer systems will not be inoperable, to the extent possible. Peoples also has implemented security controls to prevent unauthorized access to 19Table of Contentsthe computer systems and requires Peoples' third party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, management cannot be certain these measures will be successful. A security breach of the computer systems and release of confidential information, such as customer account numbers and related information, could negatively affect customers' confidence in Peoples, which may cause a loss of business, and could result in Peoples' incurring financial losses for any fraudulent transactions completed by third parties due to the security breach.•Anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent an acquisition or change in control by a third party.Provisions in the Ohio General Corporation Law and Peoples' Amended Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations, including a staggered board and a supermajority vote requirement for significant corporate changes, could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by shareholders to remove Peoples' Board of Directors and management more difficult. These provisions may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction or change in control that might be in the best interests of Peoples' shareholders.•Peoples and its subsidiaries are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities.In the normal course of business, Peoples and its subsidiaries are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding positions taken regarding their respective tax returns. State tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions, especially those positions relating to tax compliance and calculation of taxes subject to apportionment. Any challenge or examination by a tax authority may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable net worth or taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. Management believes it has taken appropriate positions on all tax returns filed, to be filed or not filed and does not anticipate any examination would have a material impact on Peoples' Consolidated Financial Statements. However, the outcome of such examinations and ultimate resolution of any resulting assessments are inherently difficult to predict. Thus, no assurance can be given that Peoples' tax liability for any tax year open to examination will not be different than what is reflected in Peoples' current and historical Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information can be found in the “Critical Accounting Policies - Income Taxes” section of “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in this Form 10-K.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.