Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements made by Genentech, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our product sales, royalties, contract revenues, expenses, net income and earnings per share. The successful development of biotherapeutics is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures Successful development of biotherapeutics is highly uncertain. Products that appear promising in research or early phases of development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons including: · Preclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models. · Clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects. 10 · Failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies, extended length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis or Biologic Licensing Application (or “BLA”) preparation, discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (or “FDA”), an FDA request for additional preclinical or clinical data, or unexpected safety, efficacy or manufacturing issues. · Difficulties formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or in getting approval for manufacturing. · Manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors that make the product uneconomical. · The proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies that may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. If our large-scale clinical trials are not successful, we will not recover our substantial investments in the product. Factors affecting our research and development (or “R&D”) productivity and the amount of our R&D expenses include, but are not limited to: · The number of and the outcome of clinical trials currently being conducted by us and/or our collaborators. For example, our R&D expenses may increase based on the number of late-stage clinical trials being conducted by us and/or our collaborators. · The number of products entering into development from late-stage research. For example, there is no guarantee that internal research efforts will succeed in generating sufficient data for us to make a positive development decision or that an external candidate will be available on terms acceptable to us. In the past, some promising candidates did not yield sufficiently positive preclinical results to meet our stringent development criteria. · Decisions by F. Hoffmann-La Roche (or “Hoffmann-La Roche”) whether to exercise its options to develop and sell our future products in non-U.S. markets and the timing and amount of any related development cost reimbursements. · In-licensing activities, including the timing and amount of related development funding or milestone payments. For example, we may enter into agreements requiring us to pay a significant upfront fee for the purchase of in-process R&D, which we may record as an R&D expense. · Participation in a number of collaborative research arrangements. On many of these collaborations, our share of expenses recorded in our financial statements is subject to volatility based on our collaborators’ spending activities as well as the mix and timing of activities between the parties. · Charges incurred in connection with expanding our product manufacturing capabilities, as described in “Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or in obtaining materials from our suppliers could harm our business and/or negatively affect our financial performance” below. · Future levels of revenue. 11 We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products We are subject to stringent regulation with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international, federal, state and local authorities. Of particular significance are the FDA’s requirements covering R&D, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. A biotherapeutic cannot be marketed in the United States (or “U.S.”) until it has been approved by the FDA, and then can only be marketed for the indications approved by the FDA. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of a New Drug Application or a BLA, are substantial and can require a number of years. In addition, even if our products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA regulation, including, for example, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians or a product recall. We may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of the products we are developing or manufacturing or maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our existing products, and all of the following could have a material adverse effect on our business: · Significant delays in obtaining or failing to obtain required approvals as described in “The successful development of biotherapeutics is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures” above. · Loss of, or changes to, previously obtained approvals, including those resulting from post-approval safety or efficacy issues. · Failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. · Changes to manufacturing processes, manufacturing process standards or Good Manufacturing Practices following approval or changing interpretations of these factors. In addition, the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product development or marketing, which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products or require us to make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or in obtaining materials from our suppliers could harm our business and/or negatively affect our financial performance Manufacturing biotherapeutics is difficult and complex, and requires facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose. It can take longer than five years to design, construct, validate, and license a new biotechnology manufacturing facility. We currently produce all of our products at our manufacturing facilities located in South San Francisco, California; Vacaville, California; Porriño, Spain; or increasingly through various contract-manufacturing arrangements. Problems with any of our or our contractors’ manufacturing processes could result in failure to produce adequate product supplies or product defects which could require us to delay shipment of products, recall products previously shipped or be unable to supply products at all. In addition, we may need to record period charges associated with manufacturing or inventory failures or other production-related costs that are not absorbed into inventory or incur costs to secure additional sources of capacity. Furthermore, there are inherent uncertainties associated with forecasting future demand, especially for newly introduced products of ours or of those for whom we produce products, and as a consequence we may have inadequate capacity to meet our own actual demands and/or the actual demands of those for whom we produce product. In order to maintain adequate supply to keep up with growing demand for our products, we must successfully implement a number of manufacturing capacity enhancement projects on schedule, utilize nearly 100 percent of our production capacity in the next several years and maintain a state of regulatory compliance at all production sites. If we or any of our contract manufacturers for any reason fail to obtain licensure for our capacity enhancement projects on schedule, fail to operate at or near full capacity utilization, fail to maintain a state of regulatory compliance, or if actual demand significantly exceeds our internal forecasts, we may be unable to maintain an adequate supply of our products to meet all demand. Key capacity enhancement projects, which we must successfully implement, include the following: (i) licensure of Wyeth Pharmaceuticals contract manufacturing facility at Andover, Massachusetts to produce Herceptin bulk drug substance by the end of 2006; (ii) licensure of additional capacity at our Porriño, Spain 12 facility in 2006 to produce Avastin bulk drug substance; (iii) licensure of yield improvement processes for Rituxan by the end of 2006 and for Avastin by early 2007; (iv) licensure of our recently acquired Oceanside, California manufacturing facility during the first half of 2007; and (v) construction, qualification and licensure of our new plant in Vacaville, California by the end of 2009. If we experience a significant malfunction in our filling facility, we could experience a shortfall or stock out of one or more products, which, if it were to continue for a significant period of time, could result in a material adverse effect on our product sales and our business. Furthermore, certain of our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our principal products or products we make for others are available only through sole source suppliers (the only recognized supplier available to us) or single source suppliers (the only approved supplier for us among other sources), and such raw materials cannot be obtained from other sources without significant delay or at all. If such sole source or single source suppliers were to limit or terminate production or otherwise fail to supply these materials for any reason, such failures could also have a material adverse impact on our products sales and our business. Any prolonged interruption in the operations of our or our contractors’ manufacturing facilities could result in cancellations of shipments, loss of product in the process of being manufactured, or a shortfall or stock-out of available product inventory, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. A number of factors could cause prolonged interruptions, including: · the inability of a supplier to provide raw materials used for manufacture of our products; · equipment obsolescence, malfunctions or failures; · product contamination problems; · damage to a facility, including our warehouses and distribution facilities, due to natural disasters, including, but not limited to, earthquakes as our South San Francisco, Oceanside and Vacaville facilities are located in areas where earthquakes could occur; · changes in FDA regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to our manufacturing processes; · action by the FDA or by us that results in the halting or slowdown of production of one or more of our products or products we make for others due to regulatory issues; · a contract manufacturer going out of business or failing to produce product as contractually required; · other similar factors. Because our manufacturing processes and those of our contractors are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties or delays in our or our contractors’ manufacturing and supply of existing or new products could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share, damage our reputation and could result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition We face competition from pharmaceutical companies, pharmaceutical divisions of chemical companies, and biotechnology companies. The introduction of new competitive products or follow-on biologics or new information about existing products may result in lost market share for us, reduced utilization of our products, and/or lower prices, even for products protected by patents. 13 Rituxan: Rituxan's current competitors include BEXXAR® (GlaxoSmithKline) and ZEVALIN® (Biogen Idec), both of which are radioimmunotherapies and indicated for treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade, follicular, or transformed B-cell NHL. Other competitors include CAMPATH® (Berlex, Inc.), which is indicated for B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (an unapproved use of Rituxan), and VELCADE® (Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) which is indicated for multiple myeloma (an unapproved use of Rituxan). Avastin: Avastin competes with ImClone/Bristol-Myers Squibb’s ERBITUX®, which is an EGFR-inhibitor approved for the treatment of irinotecan refractory or intolerant metastatic colorectal cancer patients. While ERBITUX® and Avastin are approved for use in different settings (Avastin in front-line and ERBITUX® in relapsed patients), physicians use both products across all lines of therapy. In December 2005, the FDA approved Nexavar® (sorafenib) from Bayer Corporation/Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (or “RCC”), or kidney cancer (an unapproved use for Avastin). In January 2006, Pfizer, Inc. received FDA approval for Sutent® (sunitinib malate) for use in advanced RCC and Gleevec-refractory / intolerant gastrointestinal stromal tumor (both unapproved uses of Avastin). Avastin could face competition from products in development that currently do not have regulatory approval, including Amgen Inc.’s panitumumab. Amgen has announced that it expects panitumumab may be approved for refractory metastatic colorectal cancer in late 2006. Lucentis: We are aware that some retinal specialists are currently using Avastin to treat the wet form of age-related macular degeneration, an unapproved use, and that there may be continued Avastin use in this setting even after Lucentis has been approved for commercial use. Herceptin: Herceptin could face competition in the future from experimental drugs and products in development that do not currently have regulatory approval for any use outside of clinical trials, including lapatinib, which is being developed by GlaxoSmithKline. Tarceva: Tarceva competes with the chemotherapeutic products Taxotere® and Alimta®, both of which are indicated for the treatment of relapsed NSCLC. Although not FDA approved for use in pancreatic cancer, Xeloda® and 5-FU represent competitors in this market. Tarceva could also face competition in the future from products in development that currently do not have regulatory approval for use outside of clinical trials, including ZactimaTM. Xolair: In mid-October 2005, Critical Therapeutics, Inc. (or “Critical Therapeutics”) launched Zyflo®, a leukotriene antagonist, for the prevention and chronic treatment of asthma in patients 12 years of age and older. While not a direct competitor to Xolair, we understand that Critical Therapeutics’ marketing efforts are directed at the use of Zyflo® prior to Xolair. Xolair also faces competition from other asthma therapies, including inhaled corticosteroids, long-acting beta agonists, combination products such as fixed dose inhaled corticosteroids/long-acting beta agonists and leukotriene inhibitors, as well as oral corticosteroids. Raptiva: Raptiva competes with established therapies for moderate-to-severe psoriasis including oral systemics such as methotrexate and cyclosporin, as well as ultraviolet light therapies. In addition, Raptiva competes with FDA-approved biologic agents Amevive® and ENBREL®, which are marketed by Biogen Idec and Amgen, respectively. Remicade® and Humira®, marketed by Centocor, Inc. (or “Centocor”) and Abbott Laboratories (or “Abbott”), respectively, are used off-label in the psoriasis market. In October 2005, Centocor filed with the FDA for approval of Remicade® for the treatment of psoriasis. Nutropin: In the growth hormone market, we face competition from other companies currently selling growth hormone products and delivery devices. Nutropin’s current competitors include Genotropin® (Pfizer), Norditropin® (Novo Nordisk), Humatrope® (Eli Lilly and Company), Tev-Tropin® (Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.), and Saizen® (Serono, Inc.). As a result of multiple competitors, we have experienced and may continue to experience a loss of market share and a demand for increasing discounts to managed care. Some competitors have additional indications, including Prader Willi Syndrome and SGA (small for gestational age) for which Nutropin is not approved. Nutropin has five approved indications in the U.S., more than any other growth hormone. Thrombolytics: We face competition in our acute myocardial infarction market with sales of TNKase and Activase affected by the adoption by physicians of mechanical reperfusion strategies. We expect that the use of mechanical 14 reperfusion in lieu of thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction will continue to grow. TNKase and Activase for acute myocardial infarction also face competition from aggressive price discounting on Retavase (reteplase), marketed by ESP Pharma, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of PDL BioPharma, Inc.). Activase may face competition in the catheter clearance market from Nuvelo’s Alfimeprase, which is in ongoing phase III clinical trials. Pulmozyme: Pulmozyme faces competition from an emerging, inexpensive approach to clearing the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients. Specifically, the use of hypertonic saline could limit or reduce penetration into specific segments of the cystic fibrosis population. Research continues on new approaches to disease modification of cystic fibrosis which could reduce the number of patients in need of therapy. In addition to the commercial and late stage development products listed above, there are numerous products in earlier stages of development at other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that, if successful in clinical trials, may compete with our products. Decreases in third party reimbursement rates may affect our product sales, results of operations and financial condition Sales of our products will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations to physicians. Third party payers and governmental health administration authorities are increasingly attempting to limit and/or regulate the price of medical products and services, especially branded prescription drugs. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act, enacted in December 2003 (or “Medicare Act”), provides for, among other things, a reduction in the Medicare reimbursement rates to physicians for many drugs, including many of our products. The Medicare Act as well as other changes in government legislation or regulation or in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for our products may reduce reimbursement of our products’ costs to physicians. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our products could reduce physician usage of the product and may have a material adverse effect on our product sales, results of operations and financial condition. Protecting our proprietary rights is difficult and costly The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the breadth of claims allowed in these companies’ patents. Patent disputes are frequent and can preclude the commercialization of products. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be, involved in material litigation and other legal proceedings relating to our proprietary rights, such as the Cabilly reexaminations discussed in Note 7, “Leases, Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Such litigation and other legal proceedings are costly in their own right and could subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties. An adverse decision could force us to either obtain third-party licenses at a material cost or cease using the technology or commercializing the product in dispute. An adverse decision with respect to one or more of our patents or other intellectual property rights could cause us to incur a material loss of royalties and other revenue from licensing arrangements that we have with third-parties, and could significantly interfere with our ability to negotiate future licensing arrangements. The presence of patents or other proprietary rights belonging to other parties may lead to our termination of the R&D of a particular product, a loss of our entire investment in the product and subject us to infringement claims. If there is an adverse outcome in our pending litigation or other legal actions our business may be harmed Litigation to which we are currently or have been subjected relates to, among other things, our patent and other intellectual property rights, licensing arrangements with other persons, product liability and financing activities. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending litigation, which may include an injunction against the manufacture or sale of a product or potential product or a judgment with significant monetary award, including the possibility of punitive damages, or a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are 15 invalid or unenforceable. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits and these lawsuits could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products are subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). In 1999 we agreed to pay $50 million to settle a federal investigation relating to our past clinical, sales and marketing activities associated with human growth hormone. We are currently being investigated by the Department of Justice with respect to our promotional practices of Rituxan, and may in the future be investigated for our promotional practices relating to any of our products. If the government were to bring charges against or convict us of violating these laws, or if we were subject to third party litigation relating to the same promotional practices, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If a court were to find us liable for violating these laws, or if the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including on our stock price. We may be unable to manufacture certain of our products if there is BSE contamination of our bovine source raw material Most biotechnology companies, including Genentech, have historically used bovine source raw materials to support cell growth in cell production processes. Bovine source raw materials from within or outside the U.S. are increasingly subject to greater public and regulatory scrutiny because of the perceived risk of contamination with bovine spongiform encephalopathy (or “BSE”). Should BSE contamination occur during the manufacture of any of our products that require the use of bovine source raw materials, it would negatively impact our ability to manufacture those products for an indefinite period of time (or at least until an alternative process is approved), negatively affect our reputation and could result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to retain skilled personnel and maintain key relationships The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to (i) attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, (ii) successfully integrate large numbers of new employees into our corporate culture, and (iii) develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense. Among other benefits, we use stock options to attract and retain personnel. Our affiliation agreement with Roche provides that, among other things, we will establish a stock repurchase program designed to maintain Roche’s percentage ownership in our Common Stock if we issue or sell any shares. In addition, changes in stock option accounting rules will require us to recognize all stock-based compensation costs as expenses. These or other factors could reduce the number of shares management and our board of directors choose to grant under our stock option plans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled personnel or maintain key relationships or that the costs of retaining such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially increase. 16 Other factors could affect our product sales Other factors that could affect our product sales include, but are not limited to: · The timing of FDA approval, if any, of competitive products. · Our pricing decisions, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product, and the pricing decisions of our competitors. · Government and third-party payer reimbursement and coverage decisions that affect the utilization of our products and competing products. · Negative safety or efficacy data from new clinical studies conducted either in the U.S. or internationally by any party could cause the sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled. · Negative safety or efficacy data from post-approval marketing experience could cause sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled. · The degree of patent protection afforded our products by patents granted to us and by the outcome of litigation involving our patents. · The outcome of litigation involving patents of other companies concerning our products or processes related to production and formulation of those products or uses of those products. · The increasing use and development of alternate therapies. · The rate of market penetration by competing products. · The termination of, or change in, an existing arrangement with any major wholesalers who supply our products. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by our royalty and contract revenues Royalty and contract revenues in future periods could vary significantly. Major factors affecting these revenues include, but are not limited to: · Hoffmann-La Roche’s decisions whether to exercise its options and option extensions to develop and sell our future products in non-U.S. markets and the timing and amount of any related development cost reimbursements. · Variations in Hoffmann-La Roche’s sales and other licensees’ sales of licensed products. · The expiration or termination of existing arrangements with other companies and Hoffmann-La Roche, which may include development and marketing arrangements for our products in the U.S., Europe and other countries outside the U.S. · The timing of non-U.S. approvals, if any, for products licensed to Hoffmann-La Roche and to other licensees. · Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. · The initiation of new contractual arrangements with other companies. 17 · Whether and when contract milestones are achieved. · The failure of or refusal of a licensee to pay royalties. · The expiration or invalidation of our patents or licensed intellectual property. For example, patent litigations, interferences, oppositions, and other proceedings involving our patents often include claims by third-parties that such patents are invalid or unenforceable. If a court, patent office, or other authority were to determine that a patent under which we receive royalties and/or other revenues is invalid or unenforceable, that determination could cause us to suffer a loss of such royalties and/or revenues, and could cause us to incur other monetary damages. · Decreases in licensees’ sales of product due to competition, manufacturing difficulties or other factors that affect the sales of product. Our affiliation agreement with Roche Holdings, Inc. could adversely affect our cash position Our affiliation agreement with Roche provides that we establish a stock repurchase program designed to maintain Roche’s percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock based on an established Minimum Percentage. For more information on our stock repurchase program, see discussion below in “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Cash Provided by or Used in Financing Activities.” See Note 8, “Relationship with Roche and Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information regarding the Minimum Percentage. While the dollar amounts associated with future stock repurchase programs cannot currently be determined, future stock repurchases could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, credit rating and ability to access additional capital in the financial markets, and may have the effect of limiting our ability to use our capital stock as consideration for acquisitions. Our affiliation agreement with Roche could limit our ability to make acquisitions and could have a material negative impact on our liquidity The affiliation agreement between us and Roche contains provisions that: · Require the approval of the directors designated by Roche to make any acquisition or any sale or disposal of all or a portion of our business representing 10% or more of our assets, net income or revenues. · Enable Roche to maintain its percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock. · Require us to establish a stock repurchase program designed to maintain Roche’s percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock based on an established Minimum Percentage. For information regarding Minimum Percentage, see Note 8, “Relationship with Roche and Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of our relationship with Roche and Roche’s ability to maintain its percentage ownership interest in our stock. For more information on our stock repurchase program, see discussion below in “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Cash Provided by or Used in Financing Activities.” These provisions may have the effect of limiting our ability to make acquisitions and while the dollar amounts associated with our future stock repurchases cannot currently be estimated, stock repurchases could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, credit rating and ability to access additional capital in the financial markets. Future sales of our Common Stock by Roche could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline As of December 31, 2005, Roche owned 587,189,380 shares of our Common Stock, or 55.7% of our outstanding shares. All of our shares owned by Roche are eligible for sale in the public market subject to compliance with the applicable securities laws. We have agreed that, upon Roche’s request, we will file one or more registration statements under the Securities Act in order to permit Roche to offer and sell shares of our Common Stock. Sales of 18 a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock by Roche in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Roche Holdings, Inc., our controlling stockholder, may have interests that are adverse to other stockholders Roche, as our majority stockholder, controls the outcome of most actions requiring the approval of our stockholders. Our bylaws provide, among other things, that the composition of our board of directors shall consist of at least three directors designated by Roche, three independent directors nominated by the nominating committee and one Genentech executive officer nominated by the nominating committee. Currently, three of our directors, Mr. William Burns, Dr. Erich Hunziker and Dr. Jonathan K.C. Knowles, also serve as officers and employees of Roche Holding Ltd and its affiliates. As long as Roche owns in excess of 50% of our Common Stock, Roche directors will comprise two of the three members of the nominating committee. However, at any time until Roche owns less than 5% of our stock, Roche will have the right to obtain proportional representation on our board. We cannot assure you that Roche will not seek to influence our business operations in a manner that is contrary to our goals or strategies. Our stockholders may be unable to prevent transactions that are favorable to Roche but adverse to us Our certificate of incorporation includes provisions relating to the following matters: · Competition by Roche affiliates with us. · Offering of corporate opportunities. · Transactions with interested parties. · Intercompany agreements. · Provisions limiting the liability of specified employees. Our certificate of incorporation provides that any person purchasing or acquiring an interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have consented to the provisions in the certificate of incorporation relating to competition with Roche, conflicts of interest with Roche, the offer of corporate opportunities to Roche and intercompany agreements with Roche. This deemed consent might restrict the ability to challenge transactions carried out in compliance with these provisions. Potential conflicts of interest could limit our ability to act on opportunities that are favorable to us but adverse to Roche Persons who are directors and/or officers of Genentech and who are also directors and/or officers of Roche may decline to take action in a manner that might be favorable to us but adverse to Roche. Three of our directors currently serve as officers and employees of Roche Holding Ltd and its affiliates. We may incur material product liability costs The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Liability exposures for biotherapeutics could be extremely large and pose a material risk. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by a successful product liability claim or claims in excess of any insurance coverage that we may have. Insurance coverage is increasingly more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain While we currently have a certain amount of insurance to minimize our direct exposure to certain business risks, premiums are generally increasing and coverage is narrowing in scope. As a result, we may be required to assume more risk in the future or make significant expenditures to maintain our current levels of insurance. If we are subject to third-party claims or suffer a loss or damages in excess of our insurance coverage, we will incur the cost of the portion of the retained risk. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may affect our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs. 19 We are subject to environmental and other risks We use certain hazardous materials in connection with our research and manufacturing activities. In the event such hazardous materials are stored, handled or released into the environment in violation of law or any permit, we could be subject to loss of our permits, government fines or penalties and/or other adverse governmental or private actions. The levy of a substantial fine or penalty, the payment of significant environmental remediation costs or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could materially adversely affect our business. We also have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, land and buildings as we expand our operations. Some of these properties are “brownfields” for which redevelopment or use is complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant or contaminant. Certain events could occur which may require us to pay significant clean-up or other costs in order to maintain our operations on those properties. Such events include, but are not limited to, changes in environmental laws, discovery of new contamination, or unintended exacerbation of existing contamination. The occurrence of any such event could materially affect our ability to continue our business operations on those properties. Fluctuations in our operating results could affect the price of our Common Stock Our operating results may vary from period to period for several reasons including: · The overall competitive environment for our products as described in “We face competition” above. · The amount and timing of sales to customers in the U.S. For example, sales of a product may increase or decrease due to pricing changes, fluctuations in distributor buying patterns or sales initiatives that we may undertake from time to time. · The amount and timing of our sales to Hoffmann-La Roche and our other collaborators of products for sale outside of the U.S. and the amount and timing of sales to their respective customers, which directly impacts both our product sales and royalty revenues. · The timing and volume of bulk shipments to licensees. · The availability and extent of government and private third-party reimbursements for the cost of therapy. · The extent of product discounts extended to customers. · The effectiveness and safety of our various products as determined both in clinical testing and by the accumulation of additional information on each product after the FDA approves it for sale. · The rate of adoption by physicians and use of our products for approved indications and additional indications. Among other things, the rate of adoption by physicians and use of our products may be affected by results of clinical studies reporting on the benefits or risks of a product. · The potential introduction of new products and additional indications for existing products. · The ability to successfully manufacture sufficient quantities of any particular marketed product. · Pricing decisions we may adopt. 20 Our integration of new information systems could disrupt our internal operations, which could harm our revenues and increase our expenses Portions of our information technology infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors. As part of our Enterprise Resource Planning efforts, we are implementing new information systems, but we may not be successful in implementing all of the new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Any disruptions that may occur in the implementation of new systems or any future systems could adversely affect our ability to report in an accurate and timely manner the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows. Disruptions to these systems also could adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other operational processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results. Our stock price, like that of many biotechnology companies, is volatile The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile. In addition, the following factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. · Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors. · Publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development or being commercialized by us or our competitors. · Developments or outcome of litigation, including litigation regarding proprietary and patent rights. · Regulatory developments or delays concerning our products in the U.S. and foreign countries. · Issues concerning the safety of our products or of biotechnology products generally. · Economic and other external factors or a disaster or crisis. · Period to period fluctuations in our financial results. Our effective income tax rate may vary significantly Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective income tax rate. These factors include but are not limited to changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years’ items, future levels of R&D spending, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. To pay our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash and may adversely affect our operations and financial results As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $2.1 billion of long-term debt. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our long-term debt obligations, and to fund planned capital expenditures, R&D, as well as stock repurchases and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are and will remain beyond our control. Additionally, our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, R&D, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes, and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. 21 Accounting pronouncements may affect our future financial position and results of operations There may be new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an affect on our future financial position and results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued a revision of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (or “FAS”) No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” The revision is referred to as “FAS 123R — Share-Based Payment”, which supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and will require companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to share-based payments including stock options and stock issued under our employee stock plans. We have adopted FAS 123R using the modified prospective basis on January 1, 2006. Our adoption of FAS 123R is expected to result in compensation expense that will reduce diluted net income per share by approximately $0.15 to $0.17 per share for 2006. However, our estimate of future stock-based compensation expense is affected by our stock price, the number of stock-based awards our board of directors may grant in 2006, as well as a number of complex and subjective valuation assumptions and the related tax impact. These valuation assumptions include, but are not limited to, the volatility of our stock price and employee stock option exercise behaviors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 