Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our product sales, royalties, contract revenues, expenses, net income and earnings per share. The successful development of biotherapeutics is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time Successful development of biotherapeutics is highly uncertain. Products that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons including: · Preclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models. · Clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects. · Failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies, extended length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis or Biologic Licensing Application (or “BLA”) preparation, discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (or “FDA”), FDA requests for additional preclinical or clinical data, analyses or changes to study design, or unexpected safety, efficacy or manufacturing issues. · Difficulties formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or in getting approval for manufacturing. 11 · Manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors that make the product uneconomical. · The proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies that may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. · The contractual rights of our collaborators or others that may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. If our large-scale clinical trials are not successful, we will not recover our substantial investments in the product. Factors affecting our research and development (or “R&D”) productivity and the amount of our R&D expenses include, but are not limited to: · The number of and the outcome of clinical trials currently being conducted by us and/or our collaborators. For example, our R&D expenses may increase based on the number of late-stage clinical trials being conducted by us and/or our collaborators. · The number of products entering into development from late-stage research. For example, there is no guarantee that internal research efforts will succeed in generating a sufficient number of candidate products that are ready to move into development or that product candidates will be available for in-licensing on terms acceptable to us and permitted under the anti-trust laws. · Decisions by F. Hoffmann-La Roche (or “Hoffmann-La Roche”) whether to exercise its options to develop and sell our future products in non-U.S. markets and the timing and amount of any related development cost reimbursements. · Our ability to in-license projects of interest to us and the timing and amount of related development funding or milestone payments for such licenses. For example, we may enter into agreements requiring us to pay a significant upfront fee for the purchase of in-process R&D, which we may record as an R&D expense. · Participation in a number of collaborative research arrangements. On many of these collaborations, our share of expenses recorded in our financial statements is subject to volatility based on our collaborators’ spending activities as well as the mix and timing of activities between the parties. · Charges incurred in connection with expanding our product manufacturing capabilities, as described in “Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or in obtaining materials from our suppliers could harm our business and/or negatively affect our financial performance” below. · Future levels of revenue. We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products We are subject to stringent regulation with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international, federal, state and local authorities. Of particular significance are the FDA’s requirements covering R&D, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. A biotherapeutic cannot be marketed in the United States (or “U.S.”) until it has been approved by the FDA, and then can only be marketed for the indications approved by the FDA. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of a BLA or NDA, are substantial and can require a number of years. In addition, even if our products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA 12 regulation, including, for example, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians and/or a product recall or withdrawal. We may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of the products we are developing or manufacturing or we may not maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our existing products, and all of the following could have a material adverse effect on our business: · Significant delays in obtaining or failing to obtain approvals as described in “The successful development of biotherapeutics is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time” above. · Loss of, or changes to, previously obtained approvals, including those resulting from post-approval safety or efficacy issues. · Failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. · Changes to manufacturing processes, manufacturing process standards or Good Manufacturing Practices (or “GMP”) following approval or changing interpretations of these factors. In addition, the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product development or marketing, which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products or require us to make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. We face competition We face competition from pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. The introduction of new competitive products or follow-on biologics, new information about existing products or pricing decisions by us or our competitors may result in lost market share for us, reduced utilization of our products, reduced product sales, and/or lower prices, even for products protected by patents. Avastin: Avastin competes with Erbitux® (Imclone/Bristol-Myers Squibb), which is an EGFR-inhibitor approved for the treatment of irinotecan refractory or intolerant metastatic colorectal cancer (or “CRC”) patients, Nexavar® (sorafenib Bayer Corporation/Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (or “RCC”) or kidney cancer (an unapproved use of Avastin), Sutent® (sunitinib malate, Pfizer, Inc.) for use in advanced RCC (an unapproved use of Avastin), Gleevec® (imatinib mesylate, Novartis) for use in refractory/intolerant gastrointestinal stromal tumor (an unapproved use of Avastin), and Vectibix™ (panitumumab, Amgen), for the treatment of EGFR-expressing, metastatic colorectal carcinoma with disease progression on or following fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin-, and irinotecan-containing chemotherapy regimens. Avastin could face competition from products in development that currently do not have regulatory approval. Amgen has stated that it will initiate head-to-head clinical trials comparing AMG 706 and Avastin. There are also head-to-head clinical trials that have recently begun comparing both Sutent and AZD2171 (AstraZeneca) to Avastin. Additionally, there are more than 65 molecules that target VEGF inhibition, and over 130 companies that are developing molecules that, if approved, may compete with Avastin. Rituxan: Rituxan’s primary competitor is Bexxar® (GlaxoSmithKline (or “GSK”)) which is radioimmunotherapy indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade, follicular, or transformed B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (or “NHL”). Other potential competitors include Campath® in relapsed CLL (an unapproved use of Rituxan), Velcade® (Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) which is indicated for multiple myeloma and more recently, mantle cell lymphoma (both unapproved uses of Rituxan). Ofatumumab (Humax CD20™), an anti-CD20 antibody being co-developed by Genmab and GSK is in late-stage development for refractory CLL and NHL. In addition to the products detailed above, we are aware of other anti-CD20 molecules in development that, if successful in clinical trials, may compete with Rituxan. 13 Rituxan’s current biologic competitors in rheumatoid arthritis (or “RA”) include Enbrel® (Amgen/Wyeth), Humira® (Abbott), Remicade® (Johnson & Johnson), Orencia® (Bristol-Myers Squibb), and Kineret® (Amgen). These products are approved for use in a broader RA patient population than the approved population for Rituxan. Herceptin: Herceptin could face competition in the future from experimental drugs and products in development that do not currently have regulatory approval for use outside of clinical trials, including lapatinib ditosylate (Tykerb®), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor being developed by GSK. On April 3, 2006, GSK announced that it stopped enrollment in its Phase III clinical trial to evaluate lapatinib ditosylate because of positive results in treating HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer in women whose disease had progressed following a Herceptin-containing regimen and other cancer therapies. Results from this trial showed that lapatinib ditosylate in combination with capecitabine increased time to disease progression compared to capecitabine alone. GSK filed for regulatory approval of lapatinib ditosylate in the third quarter of 2006 and was granted priority review with approval expected in the first quarter of 2007. Lucentis: We are aware that retinal specialists are currently using Avastin to treat the wet form of age-related macular degeneration, an unapproved use for Avastin, which results in significantly less revenue to us per treatment as compared to Lucentis. We expect Avastin use to continue in this setting. Additionally, the National Eye Institute and National Institute of Health have announced a head-to-head trial of Avastin and Lucentis in this setting. Lucentis also competes with Macugen® (Pfizer/OSI Pharmaceuticals), and Visudyne® (Novartis) alone, or in combination with the off-label steroid triamcinolone in wet AMD. Xolair: Xolair faces competition from other asthma therapies, including inhaled corticosteroids, long-acting beta agonists, combination products such as fixed dose inhaled corticosteroids/long-acting beta agonists and leukotriene inhibitors, as well as oral corticosteroids and immunotherapy. Tarceva: Tarceva competes with the chemotherapy agents Taxotere® (Sanofi-Aventis) and Alimta® (Eli Lilly and Company), both of which are indicated for the treatment of relapsed non-small cell lung cancer (or “NSCLC”). Recent increases in the off-label use of Avastin in combination with chemotherapy in second-line NSCLC have also had an impact in this setting. In front-line pancreatic cancer, Tarceva primarily competes with Gemzar® (Eli Lilly) monotherapy and Gemzar® in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents. Tarceva could also face competition in the future from products in late-phase development that currently do not have regulatory approval for use in NSCLC or pancreatic cancer. Examples of potential competitors in NSCLC include Erbitux® (Bristol-Myers Squibb), Xyotax® (Cell Therapeutics Inc.), Telcyta® (Telik, Inc.), Nexavar® (sorafenib, Bayer/Onyx) and Zactima® (Astra Zeneca). Examples of potential competitors in Phase III pancreatic cancer trials are Xeloda® (F. Hoffmann-La Roche) and Erbitux® (Bristol-Myers Squibb). Nutropin: In the growth hormone market, we face competition from other companies currently selling growth hormone products. Nutropin’s current competitors are Genotropin® (Pfizer), Norditropin® (Novo Nordisk), Humatrope® (Eli Lilly and Company), Tev-Tropin® (Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.), and Saizen® (Serono, Inc.). In addition, follow-on biologics are beginning to enter the growth hormone market. The FDA recently approved the first follow-on version of a protein product, Omnitrope® (Sandoz), as a biologic similar to Genotropin® (Pfizer). Furthermore, as a result of multiple competitors, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, a loss of patient share and increased competition for managed care product placement. Obtaining placement on the preferred product lists of managed care companies may require that we discount the price of Nutropin. Thrombolytics: We face competition in our acute myocardial infarction market, with sales of TNKase and Activase affected by the adoption by physicians of mechanical reperfusion strategies. We expect that the use of mechanical reperfusion in lieu of thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction will continue to grow. TNKase, for acute myocardial infarction, also faces competition from Retavase® (PDL BioPharma Inc.), which engages in competitive price discounting. Pulmozyme: Pulmozyme faces competition from the use of hypertonic saline, an emerging, inexpensive approach to clearing the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients. 14 Raptiva: Raptiva competes with established therapies for moderate-to-severe psoriasis including oral systemics such as methotrexate and cyclosporin, as well as ultraviolet light therapies. In addition, Raptiva competes with biologic agents Amevive® (Astellas), Enbrel® (Amgen), and Remicade® (Centocor, Inc.). Raptiva also competes with the biologic agent Humira® (Abbott Laboratories), which is currently used off-label in the psoriasis market. In addition to the commercial and late stage development products listed above, there are numerous products in earlier stages of development at other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that, if successful in clinical trials, may compete with our products. Decreases in third party reimbursement rates may affect our product sales, results of operations and financial condition Sales of our products will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our products and related treatments will be available to physicians from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third party payers and governmental health administration authorities increasingly attempt to limit and/or regulate the reimbursement for medical products and services, including branded prescription drugs. Changes in government legislation or regulation, such as the Medicare Act, or changes in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for our products may reduce reimbursement of our products’ costs to physicians. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our products could reduce physician usage of the product and may have a material adverse effect on our product sales, results of operations and financial condition. Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or in obtaining materials from our suppliers could harm our business and/or negatively affect our financial performance Manufacturing biotherapeutics is difficult and complex, and requires facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose. It can take longer than five years to design, construct, validate, and license a new biotechnology manufacturing facility. We currently produce our products at our manufacturing facilities located in South San Francisco, California and Vacaville, California and through various contract-manufacturing arrangements. Maintaining an adequate supply to meet demand for our products depends on our ability to execute on an aggressive production plan. Any significant problem in the operations of our or our contractors’ manufacturing facilities could result in cancellations of shipments, loss of product in the process of being manufactured, a shortfall or stock-out or recall of available product inventory, or unplanned increases in production costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of factors could cause significant production problems or interruptions, including: · the inability of a supplier to provide raw materials used for manufacture of our products; · equipment obsolescence, malfunctions or failures; · product quality or contamination problems; · damage to a facility, including our warehouses and distribution facilities, due to natural disasters, including, but not limited to, earthquakes as our South San Francisco, Oceanside and Vacaville facilities are located in areas where earthquakes occur; · changes in FDA regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to our manufacturing processes; · action by the FDA or by us that results in the halting or slowdown of production of one or more of our products or products we make for others; · a contract manufacturer going out of business or failing to produce product as contractually required; 15 · failure to maintain an adequate state of GMP compliance; and · successful implementation and integration of our new enterprise resource planning system, including the portions relating to manufacturing and distribution. In addition, there are inherent uncertainties associated with forecasting future demand, especially for newly introduced products of ours or of those for whom we produce products, and as a consequence we may have inadequate capacity to meet our own actual demands and/or the actual demands of those for whom we produce product. Increasing our manufacturing capacity to keep pace with growing demand will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully implement key capacity enhancement projects, including the following: (i) licensure of 90,000 liters of capacity at our Oceanside, California manufacturing facility during the first half of 2007 to produce Avastin, and (ii) completion of construction, qualification and licensure of our new plant in Vacaville, California in 2009. Furthermore, certain of our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our principal products or products we make for others are available only through sole-source suppliers (the only recognized supplier available to us) or single-source suppliers (the only approved supplier for us among other sources), and we may not be able to obtain such raw materials without significant delay or at all. If such sole-source or single-source suppliers were to limit or terminate production or otherwise fail to supply these materials for any reason, such failures could also have a material adverse effect on our product sales and our business. Because our manufacturing processes and those of our contractors are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties or delays in our or our contractors’ manufacturing and supply of existing or new products could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share, damage our reputation and could result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. Protecting our proprietary rights is difficult and costly The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the breadth of claims allowed in these companies’ patents. Patent disputes are frequent and can preclude the commercialization of products. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be, involved in material litigation and other legal proceedings relating to our proprietary rights, such as the Cabilly reexaminations discussed in Note 8, “Leases, Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Such litigation and other legal proceedings are costly in their own right and could subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties. An adverse decision could force us to either obtain third-party licenses at a material cost or cease using the technology or commercializing the product in dispute. An adverse decision with respect to one or more of our patents or other intellectual property rights could cause us to incur a material loss of royalties and other revenue from licensing arrangements that we have with third-parties, and could significantly interfere with our ability to negotiate future licensing arrangements. The presence of patents or other proprietary rights belonging to other parties may lead to our termination of the R&D of a particular product, or to a loss of our entire investment in the product and subject us to infringement claims. If there is an adverse outcome in our pending litigation or other legal actions our business may be harmed Litigation or other legal actions to which we are currently or have been subjected relates to, among other things, our patent and other intellectual property rights, licensing arrangements and other contracts with third parties, and product liability. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending proceedings, which may include an injunction against the development, manufacture or sale of a product or potential product or a judgment with significant monetary award, including the possibility of punitive damages, or a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expense in these proceedings and such matters could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. 16 Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products are subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). In 1999 we agreed to pay $50 million to settle a federal investigation relating to our past clinical, sales and marketing activities associated with human growth hormone. We are currently being investigated by the Department of Justice with respect to our promotional practices, and may in the future be investigated for our promotional practices relating to any of our products. If the government were to bring charges against or convict us of violating these laws, or if we were subject to third party litigation relating to the same promotional practices, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If a court were to find us liable for violating these laws, or if the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including on our stock price. We may be unable to manufacture certain of our products if there is BSE contamination of our bovine source raw material Most biotechnology companies, including Genentech, have historically used bovine source raw materials to support cell growth in our production processes. Bovine source raw materials from within or outside the U.S. are increasingly subject to greater public and regulatory scrutiny because of the perceived risk of contamination with bovine spongiform encephalopathy (or “BSE”). Should BSE contamination occur during the manufacture of any of our products that require the use of bovine source raw materials, it would negatively affect our ability to manufacture those products for an indefinite period of time (or at least until an alternative process is approved), negatively affect our reputation and could result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to retain skilled personnel and maintain key relationships The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to (i) attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, (ii) successfully integrate large numbers of new employees into our corporate culture, and (iii) develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled personnel or maintain key relationships or that the costs of retaining such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially increase. Other factors could affect our product sales Other factors that could affect our product sales include, but are not limited to: · The timing of FDA approval, if any, of competitive products. 17 · Our pricing decisions, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product, the pricing decisions of our competitors, as well as our Avastin Patient Assistance Program, which is a voluntary program that enables eligible patients who receive greater than 10,000 milligrams of Avastin over a 12-month period to receive free Avastin during the remainder of the 12-month period. Eligible patients include those who are being treated for an FDA-approved indication. · Government and third-party payer reimbursement and coverage decisions that affect the utilization of our products and competing products. · Negative safety or efficacy data from new clinical studies conducted either in the U.S. or internationally by any party could cause the sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled or withdrawn. · Negative safety or efficacy data from post-approval marketing experience or production quality problems could cause sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled. · Efficacy data from clinical studies conducted by any party in the U.S. or internationally, showing or perceived to show, a similar or an improved treatment benefit at a lower dose or shorter duration of therapy could cause the sales of our products to decrease. · The degree of patent protection afforded our products by patents granted to us and by the outcome of litigation involving our patents. · The outcome of litigation involving patents of other companies concerning our products or processes related to production and formulation of those products or uses of those products. · The increasing use and development of alternate therapies. · The rate of market penetration by competing products. · Our distribution strategy, including the termination of, or change in, an existing arrangement with any major wholesalers who supply our products. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by our royalty and contract revenues, and sales to collaborators Royalty and contract revenues, and sales to collaborators in future periods could vary significantly. Major factors affecting these revenues include, but are not limited to: · Hoffmann-La Roche’s decisions whether to exercise its options and option extensions to develop and sell our future products in non-U.S. markets and the timing and amount of any related development cost reimbursements. · Variations in Hoffmann-La Roche’s sales and other licensees’ sales of licensed products. · The expiration or termination of existing arrangements with other companies and Hoffmann-La Roche, which may include development and marketing arrangements for our products in the U.S., Europe and other countries outside the U.S. · The timing of non-U.S. approvals, if any, for products licensed to Hoffmann-La Roche and to other licensees. 18 · Government and third-party payer reimbursement and coverage decisions that affect the utilization of our products and competing products. · Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. · The initiation of new contractual arrangements with other companies. · Whether and when contract milestones are achieved. · The failure of or refusal of a licensee to pay royalties. · The expiration or invalidation of our patents or licensed intellectual property. For example, patent litigations, interferences, oppositions, and other proceedings involving our patents often include claims by third-parties that such patents are invalid, unenforceable, or unpatentable. If a court, patent office, or other authority were to determine that a patent under which we receive royalties and/or other revenues is invalid, unenforceable, or unpatentable, that determination could cause us to suffer a loss of such royalties and/or revenues, and could cause us to incur other monetary damages. · Decreases in licensees’ sales of product due to competition, manufacturing difficulties or other factors that affect the sales of product. Our affiliation agreement with Roche Holdings, Inc. could adversely affect our cash position Our affiliation agreement with Roche provides that we establish a stock repurchase program designed to maintain Roche’s percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock based on an established Minimum Percentage. For more information on our stock repurchase program, see discussion in “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash Used in or Provided by Financing Activities.” See Note 9, “Relationship with Roche and Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information regarding the Minimum Percentage. Roche’s ownership percentage is diluted by the exercise of stock options to purchase shares of our Common Stock by our employees and the purchase of shares of our Common Stock through our employee stock purchase plan. In order to maintain Roche’s Minimum Percentage, we repurchase shares of our Common Stock under the stock repurchase program. See Note 3, “Employee Stock-Based Compensation,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information regarding employee stock plans. While the dollar amounts associated with future stock repurchase programs cannot currently be determined, future stock repurchases could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, credit rating and ability to access additional capital in the financial markets. Our affiliation agreement with Roche could limit our ability to make acquisitions The affiliation agreement between us and Roche contains provisions that: · Require the approval of the directors designated by Roche to make any acquisition or any sale or disposal of all or a portion of our business representing 10% or more of our assets, net income or revenues. · Enable Roche to maintain its percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock. · Require us to establish a stock repurchase program designed to maintain Roche’s percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock based on an established Minimum Percentage. For information regarding Minimum Percentage, see Note 9, “Relationship with Roche and Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 19 These provisions may have the effect of limiting our ability to make acquisitions. Future sales of our Common Stock by Roche could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline As of December 31, 2006, Roche owned 587,189,380 shares of our Common Stock, or 55.8% of our outstanding shares. All of our shares owned by Roche are eligible for sale in the public market subject to compliance with the applicable securities laws. We have agreed that, upon Roche’s request, we will file one or more registration statements under the Securities Act in order to permit Roche to offer and sell shares of our Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock by Roche in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Roche Holdings, Inc., our controlling stockholder, may seek to influence our business in a manner that is adverse to us or adverse to other stockholders who may be unable to prevent actions by Roche Roche, as our majority stockholder, controls the outcome of most actions requiring the approval of our stockholders. Our bylaws provide, among other things, that the composition of our board of directors shall consist of at least three directors designated by Roche, three independent directors nominated by the nomination committee and one Genentech executive officer nominated by the nominations committee. Our bylaws also provide that Roche will have the right to obtain proportional representation on our board until such time that Roche owns less than 5% of our stock. Currently, three of our directors, Mr. William Burns, Dr. Erich Hunziker and Dr. Jonathan K.C. Knowles, also serve as officers and employees of Roche Holding Ltd and its affiliates. As long as Roche owns in excess of 50% of our Common Stock, Roche directors will comprise two of the three members of the nominations committee. Our certificate of incorporation includes provisions relating to competition by Roche affiliates with us, offering of corporate opportunities, transactions with interested parties, intercompany agreements, and provisions limiting the liability of specified employees. We cannot assure that Roche will not seek to influence our business in a manner that is contrary to our goals or strategies or the interests of other stockholders. Moreover, persons who are directors and/or officers of Genentech and who are also directors and/or officers of Roche may decline to take action in a manner that might be favorable to us but adverse to Roche. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation provides that any person purchasing or acquiring an interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have consented to the provisions in the certificate of incorporation relating to competition with Roche, conflicts of interest with Roche, the offer of corporate opportunities to Roche and intercompany agreements with Roche. This deemed consent might restrict the ability to challenge transactions carried out in compliance with these provisions. We may incur material product liability costs The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Liability exposures for biotherapeutics could be extremely large and pose a material risk. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by a successful product liability claim or claims in excess of any insurance coverage that we may have. Insurance coverage is increasingly more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain While we currently have a certain amount of insurance to minimize our direct exposure to certain business risks, premiums are generally increasing and coverage is narrowing in scope. As a result, we may be required to assume more risk in the future or make significant expenditures to maintain our current levels of insurance. If we are subject to third-party claims or suffer a loss or damages in excess of our insurance coverage, we will incur the cost of the portion of the retained risk. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may affect our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs. We are subject to environmental and other risks We use certain hazardous materials in connection with our research and manufacturing activities. In the event such hazardous materials are stored, handled or released into the environment in violation of law or any permit, we could 20 be subject to loss of our permits, government fines or penalties and/or other adverse governmental or private actions. The levy of a substantial fine or penalty, the payment of significant environmental remediation costs or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could materially adversely affect our business. We also have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, land and buildings as we expand our operations. Some of these properties are “brownfields” for which redevelopment or use is complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant or contaminant. Certain events which could occur may require us to pay significant clean-up or other costs in order to maintain our operations on those properties. Such events include, but are not limited to, changes in environmental laws, discovery of new contamination, or unintended exacerbation of existing contamination. The occurrence of any such event could materially affect our ability to continue our business operations on those properties. Fluctuations in our operating results could affect the price of our Common Stock Our operating results may vary from period to period for several reasons including: · The overall competitive environment for our products as described in “We face competition” above. · The amount and timing of sales to customers in the U.S. For example, sales of a product may increase or decrease due to pricing changes, fluctuations in distributor buying patterns or sales initiatives that we may undertake from time to time. · The amount and timing of our sales to Hoffmann-La Roche and our other collaborators of products for sale outside of the U.S. and the amount and timing of sales to their respective customers, which directly affects both our product sales and royalty revenues. · The timing and volume of bulk shipments to licensees. · The availability and extent of government and private third-party reimbursements for the cost of therapy. · The extent of product discounts extended to customers. · The efficacy and safety of our various products as determined both in clinical testing and by the accumulation of additional information on each product after the FDA approves it for sale. · The rate of adoption by physicians and use of our products for approved indications and additional indications. Among other things, the rate of adoption by physicians and use of our products may be affected by results of clinical studies reporting on the benefits or risks of a product. · The potential introduction of new products and additional indications for existing products. · The ability to successfully manufacture sufficient quantities of any particular marketed product. · Pricing decisions that we or our competitors have adopted or may adopt, as well as our Avastin Patient Assistance Program. Our integration of new information systems could disrupt our internal operations, which could harm our revenues and increase our expenses Portions of our information technology infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors. As part of our Enterprise Resource Planning efforts, we are implementing new information systems, but we may not be successful in implementing all of the new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the 21 process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Any disruptions that may occur in the implementation of new systems or any future systems could adversely affect our ability to report in an accurate and timely manner the results of our consolidated operations, our financial position and cash flows. Disruptions to these systems also could adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other operational processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results. Our stock price, like that of many biotechnology companies, is volatile The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The following factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our Common Stock. · Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors. · Publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development or being commercialized by us or our competitors. · Concerns about the pricing of our products, or our pricing initiatives (including our Avastin Patient Assistance Program), and the potential effect of such on their utilization or our product sales. · Developments or outcome of litigation, including litigation regarding proprietary and patent rights. · Regulatory developments or delays concerning our products in the U.S. and foreign countries. · Issues concerning the safety of our products or of biotechnology products generally. · Economic and other external factors or a disaster or crisis. · Period to period fluctuations in our financial results. Our effective income tax rate may vary significantly Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective income tax rate. These factors include but are not limited to changes in tax laws, regulations and/or rates, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years’ items, past and future levels of R&D spending, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. To pay our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash and may adversely affect our operations and financial results As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $2.0 billion of long-term debt. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our long-term debt obligations, and to fund planned capital expenditures, R&D, as well as stock repurchases and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are and will remain beyond our control. Additionally, our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, R&D, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes, and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. 22 Accounting pronouncements may affect our future financial position and results of operations Under Financial Accounting Standards Board (or “FASB”) Interpretation No. 46R (or “FIN 46R”), a revision to Interpretation 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,” we are required to assess new business development collaborations as well as to reassess, upon certain events, some of which are outside our control, the accounting treatment of our existing business development collaborations based on the nature and extent of our variable interests in the entities as well as the extent of our ability to exercise influence over the entities with which we have such collaborations. Our continuing compliance with FIN 46R may result in our consolidation of companies or related entities with which we have a collaborative arrangement and this may have a material effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations in future periods. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (or “FIN”) No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.” FIN 48 clarifies the application of FASB Statement 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” by defining criteria that must be met for any part of a benefit related to an individual tax position to be recognized in the financial statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on measurement, derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition and is effective for us beginning January 1, 2007. We are currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our consolidated results of operations and financial position, but we do not expect the effect to be material. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 