Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our product sales, royalties, contract revenue, expenses, net income, and earnings per share. The successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time. Successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain. Products that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: Ÿ Preclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models. Ÿ Clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects. Ÿ Failure to receive the necessary U.S. and international regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies; extended length of time to achieve study endpoints; additional time requirements for data analysis or BLA or NDA preparation; discussions with the United States (U.S.) Food and Drug Administration (FDA); FDA requests for additional preclinical or clinical data; analyses or changes to study design; or unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues. Ÿ Difficulties in formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process, or getting approval for manufacturing. Ÿ Manufacturing costs, pricing, or reimbursement issues, or other factors may make the product uneconomical. Ÿ The proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. Ÿ The contractual rights of our collaborators or others may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. -11- Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. If our large-scale clinical trials are not successful, we will not recover our substantial investments in the product. Factors affecting our research and development (R&D) productivity and the amount of our R&D expenses include, but are not limited to: Ÿ The number of and the outcome of clinical trials currently being conducted by us and/or our collaborators. For example, our R&D expenses may increase based on the number of late-stage clinical trials being conducted by us and/or our collaborators. Ÿ The number of products entering into development from late-stage research. For example, there is no guarantee that internal research efforts will succeed in generating a sufficient number of product candidates that are ready to move into development or that product candidates will be available for in-licensing on terms acceptable to us and permitted under the anti-trust laws. Ÿ Decisions by Roche Holding AG and affiliates (Roche) whether to exercise its options to develop and sell our future products in non-U.S. markets, and the timing and amount of any related development cost reimbursements. Ÿ Our ability to in-license projects of interest to us, and the timing and amount of related development funding or milestone payments for such licenses. For example, we may enter into agreements requiring us to pay a significant up-front fee for the purchase of in-process R&D, which we may record as an R&D expense. Ÿ Participation in a number of collaborative research arrangements. On many of these collaborations, our share of expenses recorded in our financial statements is subject to volatility based on our collaborators’ spending activities as well as the mix and timing of activities between the parties. Ÿ Charges incurred in connection with expanding our product manufacturing capabilities, as described below in “Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or in obtaining materials from our suppliers, or difficulties in accurately forecasting manufacturing capacity needs, could harm our business and/or negatively affect our financial performance.” Ÿ Future levels of revenue. Ÿ Our ability to supply product for use in clinical trials. We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products. We are subject to stringent regulation with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international, federal, state, and local authorities. Of particular significance are the FDA’s requirements covering R&D, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, and promotion of drugs for human use. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures, and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of a BLA or NDA are substantial and can require a number of years. In addition, even if our products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA regulations, including, for example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians, and/or a product recall or withdrawal. -12- We may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of the products we are developing or manufacturing, or we may not maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our existing products, and all of the following could have a material adverse effect on our business: Ÿ Significant delays in obtaining or failing to obtain approvals, as described above in “The successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time.” Ÿ Loss of, or changes to, previously obtained approvals or accelerated approvals, including those resulting from post-approval safety or efficacy issues. For example, with respect to the FDA’s accelerated approval of Avastin in combination with paclitaxel chemotherapy for the treatment of patients who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic HER2-negative BC, the FDA may withdraw or modify such approval, or request additional post-marketing studies. Ÿ Failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. Ÿ A determination by the FDA that any study endpoints used in clinical trials for our products are not sufficient for product approval. Ÿ Changes to manufacturing processes, manufacturing process standards or current Good Manufacturing Practices following approval or changing interpretations of these factors. In addition, the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product development or marketing, which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products or require us to make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. We face competition. We face competition from pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. The introduction of new competitive products or follow-on biologics, and/or new information about existing products or pricing decisions by us or our competitors, may result in lost market share for us, reduced utilization of our products, lower prices, and/or reduced product sales, even for products protected by patents. Avastin: Avastin competes in metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) with Erbitux® (Imclone/Bristol-Myers Squibb), which is an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor approved for the treatment of irinotecan refractory or intolerant metastatic CRC patients; and with Vectibix™ (Amgen), which is indicated for the treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic CRC who have disease progression on or following fluoropyrimidine–, oxaliplatin–, and irinotecan–containing regimens. Avastin could also face competition from Erbitux® in metastatic NSCLC. In the third quarter of 2007, ImClone Systems Incorporated and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company announced that a Phase III study of Erbitux® in combination with vinorelbine plus cisplatin met its primary endpoint of increasing overall survival compared with chemotherapy alone in patients with advanced NSCLC. Data from this study are expected in 2008. In addition, Avastin competes with Nexavar® (sorafenib, Bayer Corporation/Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Sutent® (sunitinib malate, Pfizer, Inc.), and Torisel® (Wyeth) for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (an unapproved use of Avastin). Avastin could face competition from products in development that currently do not have regulatory approval. Sanofi-Aventis is developing a VEGF inhibitor VEGF-Trap in multiple indications, including metastatic CRC and metastatic NSCLC. There are also ongoing head-to-head clinical trials comparing both Sutent® and AZD2171 (AstraZeneca) to Avastin. Likewise, Amgen has initiated head-to-head clinical trials comparing AMG 706 and Avastin in NSCLC and metastatic breast cancer (BC). Overall, there are more than 65 molecules in clinical development that target VEGF inhibition, and over 130 companies are developing molecules that, if successful in clinical trials, may compete with Avastin. -13- Rituxan: Rituxan’s current competitors in hematology-oncology include Bexxar® (GlaxoSmithKline [GSK]) and Zevalin® (Cell Therapeutics), both of which are radioimmunotherapies indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade, follicular, or transformed B-cell NHL. Other potential competitors include Campath® (Bayer Corporation/Genzyme) in previously untreated and relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (an unapproved use of Rituxan); Velcade® (Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), which is indicated for multiple myeloma and more recently, mantle cell lymphoma (both unapproved uses of Rituxan); and Revlimid® (Celgene), which is indicated for multiple myeloma and myelodysplastic syndromes (both unapproved uses of Rituxan). Rituxan’s current competitors in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) include Enbrel® (Amgen/Wyeth), Humira® (Abbott Laboratories), Remicade® (Johnson & Johnson), Orencia® (Bristol-Myers Squibb), and Kineret® (Amgen). These products are approved for use in a RA patient population that is broader than the approved population for Rituxan. In addition, molecules in development that, if approved by the FDA, may compete with Rituxan in RA include: Actemra™, an anti-interleukin-6 receptor being developed by Chugai and Roche; Cimzia™ (certolizumab pegol), an anti-TNF antibody being developed by UCB; and CNTO 148 (golimumab), an anti-TNF antibody being developed by Centocor, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson). Rituxan may face future competition in both hematology-oncology and RA from Humax CD20™ (Ofatumumab), an anti-CD20 antibody being co-developed by Genmab and GSK. Genmab and GSK announced their plans to file for approval of Humax™ in 2008 for monotherapy use in refractory CLL and to complete a monotherapy trial for refractory indolent NHL. In addition, we are aware of other anti-CD20 molecules in development that, if successful in clinical trials, may compete with Rituxan. Rituxan could also face competition from Treanda® (Cephalon, Inc.), a NHL treatment candidate that showed positive results in Phase III clinical trials for refractory indolent NHL patients and previously untreated CLL patients. There are several therapeutic vaccines currently in development that may seek approval in indolent NHL in the future. Herceptin: Herceptin faces competition in the relapsed metastatic setting from Tykerb® (lapatinib ditosylate), manufactured by GSK. On March 13, 2007, the FDA approved Tykerb®, in combination with capecitabine, for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic BC whose tumors overexpress HER2 and who have received prior therapy, including an anthracycline, a taxane, and Herceptin. Market research indicates that lapatinib use in the fourth quarter was primarily within the later lines of metastatic BC. We will continue to monitor the clinical development of lapatinib in early lines of metastatic and adjuvant breast cancer. Lucentis: We are aware that retinal specialists are currently using Avastin to treat the wet form of AMD, an unapproved use for Avastin, which results in significantly less revenue to us per treatment compared to Lucentis. As of January 1, 2008, we no longer directly supply Avastin to compounding pharmacies. After discussions with the leadership of the American Society of Retina Specialists and the American Academy of Ophthalmology, we expect ocular use of Avastin to continue as physicians can purchase Avastin from authorized distributors and ship to the destination of the physicians’ choice. Additionally, an independent head-to-head trial of Avastin and Lucentis in wet AMD is being partially funded by the National Eye Institute, who announced that it expects to begin enrollment in the next few months. Lucentis also competes with Macugen® (Pfizer/OSI Pharmaceuticals), and with Visudyne® (Novartis) alone, in combination with Lucentis, in combination with Avastin, or in combination with the off-label steroid triamcinolone in wet AMD. In addition, VEGF-Trap-Eye, a vascular endothelial growth factor blocker being developed by Bayer Corporation and Regeneron, is in Phase III clinical trials for treatment of wet AMD. Xolair: Xolair faces competition from other asthma therapies, including inhaled corticosteroids, long-acting beta agonists, combination products such as fixed-dose inhaled corticosteroids/long-acting beta agonists and leukotriene inhibitors, as well as oral corticosteroids and immunotherapy. Tarceva: Tarceva competes with the chemotherapy agents Taxotere® (Sanofi-Aventis) and Alimta® (Eli Lilly and Company), both of which are indicated for the treatment of relapsed NSCLC. Astra Zeneca recently announced completion of enrollment in their Phase III study comparing Zactima™ head-to-head with Tarceva in second-line NSCLC (ZEST). In September 2007, Astra Zeneca announced comparable survival data for Iressa® versus Taxotere® for the treatment of relapsed NSCLC in an international study. The results of this study have not yet been -14- published, and it is unclear whether a re-filing of Iressa® with U.S. regulatory authorities is pending. Eli Lilly recently announced positive Phase III maintenance therapy data for Alimta®. Since Alimta® has not yet been approved in this setting, its potential impact on treatment is uncertain. BMS/ImClone/Merck KGaA announced positive data on the use of Erbitux® in combination with chemotherapy for the front-line treatment of NSCLC (an unapproved use of Tarceva). This may have a material impact on the landscape of treatment options for the management of patients with relapsed NSCLC. In front-line pancreatic cancer, Tarceva primarily competes with Gemzar® (Eli Lilly) monotherapy and Gemzar® in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents. Tarceva also faces competition in the future from products in late-phase development, such as Erbitux®, in the treatment of relapsed NSCLC and Xeloda® (Roche), in the treatment of pancreactic cancer; none of these products currently has regulatory approval for use in NSCLC or pancreatic cancer. Nutropin: Nutropin faces competition in the growth hormone market from five (5) branded competitors: Ÿ Humatrope® (Lilly) Ÿ Genotropin® (Pfizer) Ÿ Norditropin® (Novo Nordisk) Ÿ Saizen® (Merck Serono) Ÿ Tev-Tropin® (Teva) Nutropin also faces competition from three (3) follow-on biologics: Ÿ Omnitrope® (Sandoz) Ÿ Valtropin® (LG Life Sciences) Ÿ Accretropin® (Cangene) As a result of this competition, we have experienced and may continue to experience a loss of patient share and increased competition for managed care product placement. Obtaining placement on the preferred product lists of managed care companies may require that we further discount the price of Nutropin. In addition to managed care placement, patient and healthcare provider services provided by growth hormone manufacturers are increasingly important to creating brand preference. Thrombolytics: Our thrombolytic products face competition in the acute myocardial infarction market, with sales of TNKase and Activase affected by the adoption by physicians of mechanical reperfusion strategies. We expect that the use of mechanical reperfusion, in lieu of thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, will continue to grow. TNKase, for acute myocardial infarction, also faces competition from Retavase® (PDL BioPharma Inc.). Pulmozyme: Pulmozyme currently faces competition from the use of hypertonic saline, an inexpensive approach to clearing sputum from the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients. Approximately 25% of cystic fibrosis patients receive hypertonic saline and it is estimated that in a small percentage of patients (less than 5%), this use will impact how a physician may prescribe or a patient may use Pulmozyme. Raptiva: Raptiva competes with established therapies for moderate-to-severe psoriasis, including oral systemics such as methotrexate and cyclosporin as well as ultraviolet light therapies. In addition, Raptiva competes with biologic agents Amevive® (Astellas), Enbrel® (Amgen), and Remicade® (Centocor). Raptiva also competes with the biologic agent Humira® (Abbott), which was approved by the FDA for use in moderate-to-severe psoriasis on January 18, 2008, and was used off-label in psoriasis prior to FDA approval. Raptiva may face future competition from the biologic Ustekinumab/CNTO-1275 (Centocor), which was filed with the FDA for approval in the treatment of psoriasis on December 4, 2007. In addition to the commercial and late-stage development products listed above, numerous products are in earlier stages of development at other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that, if successful in clinical trials, may compete with our products. -15- Decreases in third-party reimbursement rates may affect our product sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Sales of our products will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our products and related treatments will be available to physicians and patients from U.S. and international government health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations. Third-party payers and government health administration authorities increasingly attempt to limit and/or regulate the reimbursement of medical products and services, including branded prescription drugs. Changes in government legislation or regulation, such as the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, and the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007; changes in Compendia listing; or changes in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for our products may reduce reimbursement of our products’ costs to physicians, pharmacies, and distributors. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our products could reduce usage of the products, sales to collaborators, and royalties, and may have a material adverse effect on our product sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or in obtaining materials from our suppliers, or difficulties in accurately forecasting manufacturing capacity needs, could harm our business and/or negatively affect our financial performance. Manufacturing pharmaceutical products is difficult and complex, and requires facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose. It can take longer than five years to design, construct, validate, and license a new biotechnology manufacturing facility. We currently produce our products at our manufacturing facilities located in South San Francisco, Vacaville, and Oceanside, California and through various contract-manufacturing arrangements. Maintaining an adequate supply to meet demand for our products depends on our ability to execute on our production plan. Any significant problem in the operations of our or our contractors’ manufacturing facilities could result in cancellation of shipments; loss of product in the process of being manufactured; a shortfall, stock-out, or recall of available product inventory; or unplanned increases in production costs—any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of factors could cause significant production problems or interruptions, including: Ÿ The inability of a supplier to provide raw materials used to manufacture our products; Ÿ Equipment obsolescence, malfunctions, or failures; Ÿ Product quality or contamination problems, due to a number of factors included but not limited to human error; Ÿ Damage to a facility, including our warehouses and distribution facilities, due to events such as fires or earthquakes, as our South San Francisco, Vacaville, and Oceanside facilities are located in areas where earthquakes and/or fires have occurred; Ÿ Changes in FDA regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to our manufacturing processes; Ÿ Action by the FDA or by us that results in the halting or slowdown of production of one or more of our products or products that we make for others; Ÿ A contract manufacturer going out of business or failing to produce product as contractually required; Ÿ Failure to maintain an adequate state of current Good Manufacturing Practices compliance; and Ÿ Implementation and integration of our new enterprise resource planning system, including the portions related to manufacturing and distribution. -16- In addition, there are inherent uncertainties associated with forecasting future demand for our products or those products we produce for others, and as a consequence we may have inadequate capacity to meet actual demand. Alternatively, we may have an excess of available capacity, which could lead to an idling of a portion of our manufacturing facilities and incurring unabsorbed or idle plant charges, costs associated with the termination of existing contract manufacturing relationships, costs associated with a reduction in workforce, or other excess capacity charges, resulting in an increase in our COS. Furthermore, certain of our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our principal products, or products that we make for others, are available only through sole-source suppliers (the only recognized supplier available to us) or single-source suppliers (the only approved supplier for us among other sources), and we may not be able to obtain such raw materials without significant delay or at all. If such sole-source or single-source suppliers were to limit or terminate production or otherwise fail to supply these materials for any reason, such failures could also have a material adverse effect on our product sales and our business. Because our manufacturing processes and those of our contractors are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties or delays in our or our contractors’ manufacturing and supply of existing or new products could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share, damage our reputation, and result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Protecting our proprietary rights is difficult and costly. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the breadth of claims that will be allowed in companies’ patents. Patent disputes are frequent and may ultimately preclude the commercialization of products. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be involved in material litigation and other legal proceedings related to our proprietary rights, such as the Cabilly reexamination and the MedImmune lawsuit (discussed in Note 8, “Leases, Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) and disputes in connection with licenses granted to or obtained from third parties. Such litigation and other legal proceedings are costly in their own right and could subject us to significant liabilities with third parties, including the payment of significant royalty expenses, the loss of significant royalty income, or other expenses or losses. Furthermore, an adverse decision or ruling could force us to either obtain third-party licenses at a material cost or cease using the technology or commercializing the product in dispute. An adverse decision or ruling with respect to one or more of our patents or other intellectual property rights could cause us to incur a material loss of sales and/or royalties and other revenue from licensing arrangements that we have with third parties, and could significantly interfere with our ability to negotiate future licensing arrangements. The presence of patents or other proprietary rights belonging to other parties may lead to our termination of the R&D of a particular product, or to a loss of our entire investment in the product and subject us to infringement claims. If there is an adverse outcome in our pending litigation or other legal actions, our business may be harmed. Litigation and other legal actions to which we are currently or have been subjected relate to, among other things, our patent and other intellectual property rights, licensing arrangements and other contracts with third parties, and product liability. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending proceedings, which may include an injunction against the development, manufacture, or sale of a product or potential product; a judgment with a significant monetary award including the possibility of punitive damages; or a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expense in these proceedings, and such matters could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. Our activities related to the sale and marketing of our products are subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal -17- healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). In 1999, we agreed to pay $50 million to settle a federal investigation related to our past clinical, sales, and marketing activities associated with human growth hormone. We are currently being investigated by the Department of Justice with respect to our promotional practices, and may in the future be investigated for our promotional practices related to any of our products. If the government were to bring charges against us or convict us of violating these laws, or if we were subject to third-party litigation related to the same promotional practices, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due in part to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If a court were to find us liable for violating these laws, or if the government were to allege against us or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including our stock price. Other factors could affect our product sales. Other factors that could affect our product sales include, but are not limited to: Ÿ Efficacy data from clinical studies conducted by any party in the U.S. or internationally, showing or perceived to show a similar or an improved treatment benefit at a lower dose or shorter duration of therapy, could cause the sales of our products to decrease. Ÿ Our pricing decisions, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product; the pricing decisions of our competitors; as well as our Avastin Patient Assistance Program, which is a voluntary program that enables eligible patients who have received 10,000 milligrams of Avastin in a 12-month period to receive free Avastin in excess of the 10,000 milligrams during the remainder of the 12-month period. Ÿ Negative safety or efficacy data from new clinical studies conducted either in the U.S. or internationally by any party could cause the sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled or withdrawn. Ÿ Negative safety or efficacy data from post-approval marketing experience or production-quality problems could cause sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled. Ÿ The degree of patent protection afforded our products by patents granted to us and by the outcome of litigation involving our patents. Ÿ The outcome of litigation involving patents of other companies concerning our products or processes related to production and formulation of those products or uses of those products. Ÿ The increasing use and development of alternate therapies. Ÿ The rate of market penetration by competing products. Ÿ Our distribution strategy, including the termination of, or change in, an existing arrangement with any major wholesalers that supply our products. -18- Ÿ Our decision to no longer allow compounding pharmacies the ability to purchase Avastin directly from wholesale distributors, which could have a negative impact on Lucentis sales as a result of negative reaction by retinal specialists to our decision. Ÿ Product returns and allowances greater than expected or historically experienced. Ÿ The inability of one or more of our three major customers to meet their payment obligations to us. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by our royalty and contract revenue, and sales to collaborators. Royalty and contract revenue, and sales to collaborators in future periods, could vary significantly. Major factors affecting this revenue include, but are not limited to: Ÿ Roche’s decisions about whether to exercise its options and option extensions to develop and sell our future products in non-U.S. markets, and the timing and amount of any related development cost reimbursements. Ÿ Variations in Roche’s sales and other licensees’ sales of licensed products. Ÿ The expiration or termination of existing arrangements with other companies and Roche, which may include development and marketing arrangements for our products in the U.S., Europe, and other countries. Ÿ The timing of non-U.S. approvals, if any, for products licensed to Roche and other licensees. Ÿ Government and third-party payer reimbursement and coverage decisions that affect the utilization of our products and competing products. Ÿ The initiation of new contractual arrangements with other companies. Ÿ Whether and when contract milestones are achieved. Ÿ The failure or refusal of a licensee to pay royalties. Ÿ The expiration or invalidation of our patents or licensed intellectual property. For example, patent litigation, interferences, oppositions, and other proceedings involving our patents often include claims by third parties that such patents are invalid, unenforceable, or unpatentable. If a court, patent office, or other authority were to determine that a patent (including the Cabilly patent as discussed in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”) under which we receive royalties and/or other revenue is invalid, unenforceable, or unpatentable, that determination could cause us to suffer a loss of such royalties and/or revenue, and could cause us to incur other monetary damages. Ÿ Decreases in licensees’ sales of product due to competition, manufacturing difficulties, or other factors that affect the sales of product. Ÿ Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We may be unable to manufacture certain of our products if there is BSE contamination of our bovine source raw material. Most biotechnology companies, including Genentech, have historically used, and we continue to use, bovine source raw materials to support cell growth in certain production processes. Bovine source raw materials from within or outside the U.S. are subject to public and regulatory scrutiny because of the perceived risk of contamination with the -19- infectious agent that causes bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). Should such BSE contamination occur, it would likely negatively affect our ability to manufacture certain products for an indefinite period of time (or at least until an alternative process is approved); negatively affect our reputation; and could result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to retain skilled personnel and maintain key relationships. The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to (i) attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing, and sales and marketing personnel, (ii) successfully integrate large numbers of new employees into our corporate culture, and (iii) develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled personnel or maintain key relationships, or that the costs of retaining such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially increase. Our affiliation agreement with Roche Holdings, Inc. could adversely affect our cash position. Our affiliation agreement with Roche Holdings, Inc. (RHI) provides that we establish a stock repurchase program designed to maintain RHI’s percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock based on an established Minimum Percentage. For more information on our stock repurchase program, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash Used in or Provided by Financing Activities.” For information on the Minimum Percentage, see Note 9, “Relationship with Roche Holdings, Inc. and Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. RHI’s ownership percentage is diluted by the exercise of stock options to purchase shares of our Common Stock by our employees and the purchase of shares of our Common Stock through our employee stock purchase plan. See Note 3, “Employee Stock-Based Compensation,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information regarding employee stock plans. In order to maintain RHI’s Minimum Percentage, we repurchase shares of our Common Stock under the stock repurchase program. Under our current stock repurchase program, we repurchased 13 million shares for $1.0 billion in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately 39 million in-the-money exercisable options. While the dollar amounts associated with future stock repurchase programs cannot currently be determined, future stock repurchases could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, credit rating, and ability to access additional capital in the financial markets. Our affiliation agreement with Roche Holdings, Inc. could limit our ability to make acquisitions or divestitures. Our affiliation agreement with RHI contains provisions that: Ÿ Require the approval of the directors designated by RHI to make any acquisition or any sale or disposal of all or a portion of our business representing 10 percent or more of our assets, net income, or revenue. Ÿ Enable RHI to maintain its percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock. Ÿ Require us to establish a stock repurchase program designed to maintain RHI’s percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock based on an established Minimum Percentage. For information regarding the Minimum Percentage, see Note 9, “Relationship with Roche Holdings, Inc. and Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Future sales of our Common Stock by Roche Holdings, Inc. could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline. As of December 31, 2007, RHI owned 587,189,380 shares of our Common Stock, or 55.8 percent of our outstanding shares. All of our shares owned by RHI are eligible for sale in the public market subject to compliance with the applicable securities laws. We have agreed that, upon RHI’s request, we will file one or more registration statements -20- under the Securities Act of 1933 in order to permit RHI to offer and sell shares of our Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock by RHI in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Roche Holdings, Inc., our controlling stockholder, may seek to influence our business in a manner that is adverse to us or adverse to other stockholders who may be unable to prevent actions by Roche Holdings, Inc. As our majority stockholder, RHI controls the outcome of most actions requiring the approval of our stockholders. Our bylaws provide, among other things, that the composition of our Board of Directors shall consist of at least three directors designated by RHI, three independent directors nominated by the Nominations Committee, and one Genentech executive officer nominated by the Nominations Committee. Our bylaws also provide that RHI will have the right to obtain proportional representation on our Board until such time that RHI owns less than five percent of our stock. Currently, three of our directors—Mr. William Burns, Dr. Erich Hunziker, and Dr. Jonathan K. C. Knowles—also serve as officers and employees of Roche. As long as RHI owns in excess of 50 percent of our Common Stock, RHI directors will be two of the three members of the Nominations Committee. Our certificate of incorporation includes provisions related to competition by RHI affiliates with Genentech, offering of corporate opportunities, transactions with interested parties, intercompany agreements, and provisions limiting the liability of specified employees. We cannot assure that RHI will not seek to influence our business in a manner that is contrary to our goals or strategies or the interests of other stockholders. Moreover, persons who are directors of Genentech and who are also directors and/or officers of RHI may decline to take action in a manner that might be favorable to us but adverse to RHI. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation provides that any person purchasing or acquiring an interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have consented to the provisions in the certificate of incorporation related to competition with RHI, conflicts of interest with RHI, the offer of corporate opportunities to RHI, and intercompany agreements with RHI. This deemed consent might restrict our ability to challenge transactions carried out in compliance with these provisions. We may incur material product liability costs. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Liability exposures for pharmaceutical products can be extremely large and pose a material risk. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by a successful product liability claim or claims in excess of any insurance coverage that we may have. Insurance coverage may be more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain. We currently have a limited amount of insurance to minimize our direct exposure to certain business risks. In the future, we may be exposed to an increase in premiums and a narrowing of scope of coverage. As a result, we may be required to assume more risk in the future or make significant expenditures to maintain our current levels of insurance. If we are subject to third-party claims or suffer a loss or damages in excess of our insurance coverage, we will incur the cost of the portion of the retained risk. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may affect our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs. We are subject to environmental and other risks. We use certain hazardous materials in connection with our research and manufacturing activities. In the event that such hazardous materials are stored, handled, or released into the environment in violation of law or any permit, we could be subject to loss of our permits, government fines, or penalties, and/or other adverse governmental or private actions. The levy of a substantial fine or penalty, the payment of significant environmental remediation costs, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could materially adversely affect our business. -21- We also have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, land and buildings as we expand our operations. Some of these properties are “brownfields” for which redevelopment or use is complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. Certain events that could occur may require us to pay significant clean-up or other costs in order to maintain our operations on those properties. Such events include, but are not limited to, changes in environmental laws, discovery of new contamination, or unintended exacerbation of existing contamination. The occurrence of any such event could materially affect our ability to continue our business operations on those properties. Fluctuations in our operating results could affect the price of our Common Stock. Our operating results may vary from period to period for several reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: Ÿ The overall competitive environment for our products, as described in “We face competition” above. Ÿ The amount and timing of sales to customers in the U.S. For example, sales of a product may increase or decrease due to pricing changes, fluctuations in distributor buying patterns, or sales initiatives that we may undertake from time to time. Ÿ Increased COS; R&D and marketing, general and administrative expenses; stock-based compensation expenses; litigation related expenses; asset impairments; and equity securities write-downs. Ÿ Changes in interest rates, and changes in credit ratings and the liquidity of our interest-bearing investments, and the effects that such changes may have on the value of those investments. Ÿ Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the effects that such changes may have on our royalty revenue and foreign currency denominated investments. Ÿ The amount and timing of our sales to Roche and our other collaborators of products for sale outside the U.S. and the amount and timing of sales to their respective customers, which directly affect both our product sales and royalty revenue. Ÿ The timing and volume of bulk shipments to licensees. Ÿ The availability and extent of government and private third-party reimbursements for the cost of therapy. Ÿ The extent of product discounts extended to customers. Ÿ The efficacy and safety of our various products as determined both in clinical testing and by the accumulation of additional information on each product after the FDA approves it for sale. Ÿ The rate of adoption by physicians and the use of our products for approved indications and additional indications. Among other things, the rate of adoption by physicians and the use of our products may be affected by the results of clinical studies reporting on the benefits or risks of a product. Ÿ The potential introduction of new products and additional indications for existing products. Ÿ The ability to successfully manufacture sufficient quantities of any particular marketed product. Ÿ Pricing decisions that we or our competitors have adopted or may adopt, as well as our Avastin Patient Assistance Program. Ÿ Our distribution strategy, including the termination of, or change in, an existing arrangement with any major wholesalers that supply our products. -22- Our integration of new information systems could disrupt our internal operations, which could decrease our revenue and increase our expenses. Portions of our information technology infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays, or cessations of service or produce errors. As part of our enterprise resource planning efforts, we are implementing new information systems, but we may not be successful in implementing all of the new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive, and resource intensive. Any disruptions that may occur in the implementation of new systems or any future systems could adversely affect our ability to report in an accurate and timely manner the results of our consolidated operations, financial position, and cash flows. Disruptions to these systems also could adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other operational processes. Delayed sales, lower margins, or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results. Our stock price, like that of many biotechnology companies, is volatile. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Among other factors, the following may have a significant effect on the market price of our Common Stock: Ÿ Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors. Ÿ Publicity regarding actual or potential medical results related to products under development or being commercialized by us or our competitors. Ÿ Concerns about our pricing initiatives and distribution strategy, and the potential effect of such initiatives and strategy on the utilization of our products or our product sales. Ÿ Developments or outcomes of litigation, including litigation regarding proprietary and patent rights (including, for example, the Cabilly patent) and governmental investigations. Ÿ Regulatory developments or delays concerning our products in the U.S. and other countries. Ÿ Issues concerning the efficacy or safety of our products or of biotechnology products generally. Ÿ Economic and other external factors or a disaster or crisis. Ÿ Period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Ÿ New proposals to change or reform the U.S. healthcare system, including, but not limited to, new regulations concerning reimbursement or follow-on biologics. Our effective income tax rate may vary significantly. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations, and/or rates, the results of any tax examinations, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years’ items, past and future levels of R&D spending, acquisitions, changes in our corporate structure, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes; all of which may result in periodic revisions to our effective income tax rate. -23- To pay our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash and may adversely affect our operations and financial results. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $2.0 billion of long-term debt and $600 million of commercial paper notes payable. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, R&D, as well as stock repurchases and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This risk, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are and will remain beyond our control. Additionally, our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, R&D, expansion efforts, and other general corporate purposes, and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Accounting pronouncements may affect our future financial position and results of operations. Under Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R (FIN 46R), a revision to FIN 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,” we are required to assess new business development collaborations as well as reassess, upon certain events, some of which are outside our control, the accounting treatment of our existing business development collaborations based on the nature and extent of our variable interests in the entities, as well as the extent of our ability to exercise influence over the entities, with which we have such collaborations. Our continuing compliance with FIN 46R may result in our consolidation of companies or related entities with which we have a collaborative arrangement, and this may have a material effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations in future periods. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 