Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking information based on our current expectations. Because our actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make or that are made on our behalf, this section includes a discussion of important factors that could affect our actual future results, including, but not limited to, our product sales, royalties, contract revenue, expenses, net income, and earnings per share. The successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time. Successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain. Products that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: Ÿ Preclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models. Ÿ Clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects. Ÿ Failure to receive the necessary U.S. and international regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies; extended length of time to achieve study endpoints; additional time requirements for data analysis or BLA or NDA preparation; discussions with the FDA; FDA requests for additional preclinical or clinical data; FDA delays due to staffing or resource limitations at the agency; analyses of or changes to study design; or unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues. Ÿ Difficulties in formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process, or getting approval for manufacturing. Ÿ Manufacturing costs, pricing, reimbursement issues, or other factors may make the product uneconomical to commercialize. Ÿ The proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. -11- Ÿ The contractual or intellectual property rights of our collaborators or others may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. If our large-scale clinical trials for a product are not successful, we will not recover our substantial investments in that product. Factors affecting our R&D productivity and the amount of our R&D expenses include, but are not limited to: Ÿ The number and outcome of clinical trials currently being conducted by us and/or our collaborators. For example, our R&D expenses may increase based on the number of late-stage clinical trials being conducted by us and/or our collaborators. Ÿ The number of products entering into development from late-stage research. For example, there is no guarantee that internal research efforts will succeed in generating a sufficient number of product candidates ready to move into development or that product candidates will be available for in-licensing on terms acceptable to us and permitted under anti-trust laws. Ÿ Decisions by Roche whether to exercise its options to develop and sell our future products in non-U.S. markets, and the timing and amount of any related development cost reimbursements. Ÿ Our ability to in-license projects of interest to us, and the timing and amount of related development funding or milestone payments for such licenses. For example, we may enter into agreements requiring us to pay a significant up-front fee for the purchase of in-process research and development, which we may record as an R&D expense. Ÿ Participation in a number of collaborative R&D arrangements. In many of these collaborations, our share of expenses recorded in our financial statements is subject to volatility based on our collaborators’ spending activities, as well as the mix and timing of activities between the parties. Ÿ Charges incurred in connection with expanding our product manufacturing capabilities, as described below in “Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or in obtaining materials from our suppliers, or difficulties in accurately forecasting manufacturing capacity needs, could harm our business and/or negatively affect our financial performance.” Ÿ Future levels of revenue. Ÿ Our ability to supply product for use in clinical trials. We face competition. We face competition from pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. The introduction of new competitive products or follow-on biologics, new safety or efficacy information about or new indications for existing products, pricing decisions by us or our competitors, the rate of market penetration by competitors’ products, and/or development and use of alternate therapies may result in lost market share for us; reduced utilization of our products; lower prices; and/or reduced product sales, even for products protected by patents. -12- Avastin: Avastin competes in metastatic CRC with Erbitux® (ImClone Systems Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company)/Bristol-Myers Squibb/Merck KGaA), which is an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor approved for the treatment of irinotecan refractory or intolerant metastatic CRC patients; and with Vectibix™ (Amgen Inc.), which is indicated for the treatment of patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic CRC who have disease progression on or following fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan-containing regimens. Avastin could also face competition from Erbitux® in metastatic NSCLC. At the 2008 annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), ImClone and Bristol-Myers Squibb presented data from a Phase III study of Erbitux® in combination with vinorelbine plus cisplatin showing that the study met its primary endpoint of increasing overall survival compared with chemotherapy alone in patients with advanced NSCLC. ImClone and Bristol-Myers Squibb submitted, then withdrew, and plan to eventually resubmit, an sBLA for U.S. approval with the FDA for advanced NSCLC. Merck KGaA has filed a European application for Erbitux® in this indication. Avastin also faces competition in advanced or metastatic NSCLC from the chemotherapy Alimta® (Eli Lilly), which received approval in the third quarter of 2008 for use in first-line NSCLC in combination with cisplatin. The approval for Alimta® in first line NSCLC is limited to use in patients with non-squamous histology. In NSCLC, both Erbitux® and Alimta® are included in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines and compendia as first-line options. The Erbitux® listing in the first-line setting is limited to combinations with cisplatin and vinorelbine. Alimta® is listed as an option for non-squamous patients in the first-line setting and as maintenance therapy for patients previously having a response. Other potential Avastin competitors include Nexavar® (sorafenib, Bayer Corporation/Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Sutent® (sunitinib malate, Pfizer Inc.), and Torisel® (Wyeth) for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (an unapproved use of Avastin). Avastin could face competition from products in development that currently do not have regulatory approval. Sanofi-Aventis is developing a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor, VEGF-Trap, in multiple indications, including metastatic CRC and metastatic NSCLC. Avastin could also face competition from the VEGF receptor-2 inhibitor (IMC-1121b) under development by ImClone in several indications, including BC. There are also ongoing head-to-head clinical trials comparing both Sutent® and AZD2171 (AstraZeneca) to Avastin. Likewise, Amgen is conducting head-to-head clinical trials comparing AMG 706 to Avastin in NSCLC and metastatic BC, and Pfizer is conducting a head-to-head trial comparing Sutent® to Avastin in BC. Antisoma’s vascular disrupting agent, ASA404, has an ongoing Phase III trial in first-line NSCLC (ATTRACT-1) and a planned Phase III trial in second-line NSCLC (ATTRACT-2). Overall, there are more than 65 molecules in clinical development that target VEGF inhibition that, if successful in clinical trials, may compete with Avastin. Rituxan: Current competitors for Rituxan in hematology-oncology include Bexxar® (GlaxoSmithKline [GSK]) and Zevalin® (Cell Therapeutics), both of which are radioimmunotherapies indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade, follicular, or transformed B-cell NHL. Cell Therapeutics recently filed an sBLA based on data from the Zevalin FIT trial, showing a benefit as consolidation therapy in frontline follicular NHL. Bexxar has an ongoing study nearing completion that may also expand its label to earlier settings in indolent NHL. Other potential competitors include Campath® (Bayer Corporation/Genzyme Corporation) in previously untreated and relapsed CLL (an unapproved use of Rituxan); Velcade® (Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), which is indicated for multiple myeloma and more recently mantle cell lymphoma (both unapproved uses of Rituxan); Revlimid® (Celgene Corporation), which is indicated for multiple myeloma and myelodysplastic syndromes (both unapproved uses of Rituxan); and Treanda® (Cephalon, Inc.), which is approved for CLL and was recently approved for the treatment of indolent NHL patients who have progressed while on or shortly after a Rituxan-containing regimen. Current competitors for Rituxan in RA include Enbrel® (Amgen/Wyeth), Humira® (Abbott), Remicade® (Johnson & Johnson), Orencia® (Bristol-Myers Squibb), and Kineret® (Amgen). These products are approved for use in an RA patient population that is broader than the population in which Rituxan is approved for use. In addition, molecules in development that, if approved by the FDA, may compete with Rituxan in RA include: Actemra™, an anti-interleukin-6 receptor being developed by Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and Roche; Cimzia™ (certolizumab pegol), an anti-TNF antibody being developed by UCB S.A.; and CNTO 148 (golimumab), an anti-TNF antibody being developed by Centocor and Schering-Plough Corporation. -13- Rituxan may face future competition in both hematology-oncology and RA from Arzerra™ (ofatumumab), an anti-CD20 antibody being co-developed by Genmab A/S and GSK. Genmab and GSK recently presented positive results from their pivotal trial for CLL at the American Society of Hematology meeting. They announced on January 30, 2009 that they filed for approval of Arzerra™ for monotherapy use in refractory CLL. Additional ongoing studies include a monotherapy trial for refractory indolent NHL. In addition, we are aware of other anti-CD20 molecules in development that, if successful in clinical trials, may compete with Rituxan. Finally, positive results were announced from a pivotal trial for BiovaxID™ (BioVest International, Inc.) for indolent NHL patients post front-line induction. BioVest has announced plans to file for approval of BiovaxID™ in indolent NHL in the U.S. Herceptin: Herceptin faces competition in the relapsed metastatic setting from Tykerb® (lapatinib ditosylate) which is manufactured by GSK. Tykerb® is approved in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic BC whose tumors overexpress HER2 and who have received prior therapy, including an anthracycline, a taxane, and Herceptin. Tykerb® is currently being studied in adjuvant and multiple lines of metastatic HER2-positive BC. Lucentis: We are aware that retinal specialists are currently using Avastin to treat the wet form of AMD, an unapproved use for Avastin, which results in significantly less revenue to us per treatment compared to Lucentis. As of January 1, 2008, we no longer directly supply Avastin to compounding pharmacies. Ocular use of Avastin continues, as physicians can purchase Avastin from authorized distributors and have it shipped to the destination of the physicians’ choice. Additionally, an independent head-to-head trial of Avastin and Lucentis in wet AMD is being partially funded by the National Eye Institute, which announced that enrollment had commenced in February 2008. Lucentis also competes with Macugen® (Pfizer/OSI Pharmaceuticals), and with Visudyne® (Novartis) alone, in combination with Lucentis, in combination with Avastin, or in combination with off-label steroids in wet AMD. In addition, VEGF-Trap-Eye, a vascular endothelial growth factor blocker being developed by Bayer and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., is in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of wet AMD. Xolair: Xolair faces competition from other asthma therapies, including inhaled corticosteroids, long-acting beta agonists, combination products such as fixed-dose inhaled corticosteroids/long-acting beta agonists and leukotriene inhibitors, as well as oral corticosteroids and immunotherapy. Tarceva: Tarceva competes with the chemotherapy agents Taxotere® (Sanofi-Aventis) and Alimta® (Eli Lilly) both of which are indicated for the treatment of relapsed NSCLC. Tarceva may face future competition in relapsed NSCLC from Zactima™ (AstraZeneca), Erbitux® (Bristol-Myers Squibb/ImClone), ASA404 (Novartis/Antisoma), and from a potential re-filing of Iressa® (AstraZeneca) in the U.S. Alimta® received approval in the third quarter of 2008 for first-line treatment of locally advanced and metastatic NSCLC, for patients with non-squamous histology. Eli Lilly has filed with the FDA for U.S. approval of Alimta® in first-line maintenance NSCLC. ImClone and Bristol-Myers Squibb have filed with the FDA for U.S. approval of Erbitux® in first-line NSCLC. Both Alimta® and Erbitux® are compendia listed and included in the NCCN guidelines for first-line metastatic NSCLC in accordance with their trials. In front-line pancreatic cancer, Tarceva primarily competes with Gemzar® (Eli Lilly) monotherapy and Gemzar® in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents. Tarceva could face competition in the future from products in development for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. We could face competition from generic versions of Tarceva. In February 2009, OSI Pharmaceuticals, with whom we collaborate on Tarceva, announced receipt of a notice letter advising that Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Tarceva. OSI Pharmaceuticals announced that it expects to file a patent infringement lawsuit against Teva seeking to restrict approval of the ANDA. Nutropin: Nutropin faces competition in the growth hormone market from multiple competitors, including Humatrope® (Eli Lilly), Genotropin® (Pfizer), Norditropin® (Novo Nordisk), Saizen® (Merck Serono), and Tev-Tropin® (Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.). In addition, Accretropin® (Cangene Corporation), a biologic growth hormone, has been approved and is also pending launch. Nutropin also faces competition from follow-on biologics, including Omnitrope® (Sandoz Inc.) and Valtropin® (LG Life Sciences Ltd.), the latter of which has been approved and is pending launch. -14- As a result of this competition, we have experienced and may continue to experience a loss of patient share and increased competition for managed care product placement. Obtaining placement on the preferred product lists of managed care companies may require that we further discount the price of Nutropin. In addition to managed care placement, patient and healthcare provider services provided by growth hormone manufacturers are increasingly important to creating brand preference. Thrombolytics: Our thrombolytic products face competition in the acute myocardial infarction market, with sales of TNKase and Activase affected by the adoption by physicians of mechanical reperfusion strategies. We expect that the use of mechanical reperfusion, in lieu of thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction, will continue to grow. TNKase for acute myocardial infarction also faces competition from Retavase® (EKR Therapeutics, Inc.). Pulmozyme: Pulmozyme currently faces competition from the use of hypertonic saline, an inexpensive approach to clearing sputum from the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients. Approximately 30 percent of cystic fibrosis patients receive hypertonic saline, and we estimate that in a small percentage of patients (less than 5 percent), this use will affect how a physician may prescribe or a patient may use Pulmozyme. Infants and toddlers are most likely to be prescribed hypertonic saline rather than Pulmozyme. Raptiva: Raptiva competes with established therapies for moderate-to-severe psoriasis, including oral systemics such as methotrexate and cyclosporin as well as ultraviolet light therapies. In addition, Raptiva competes with biologic agents Amevive® (Astellas Pharma AG), Enbrel®, and Remicade®. Raptiva also competes with the biologic agent Humira®, which was approved by the FDA for use in moderate-to-severe psoriasis on January 18, 2008. Raptiva may face future competition from the biologic Ustekinumab/CNTO-1275 (Centocor), for which a filing was made with the FDA for approval in the treatment of psoriasis on December 4, 2007. Additionally, we expect Raptiva to lose market share to competitors due to cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in Raptiva patients as discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. In addition to the commercial and late-stage development products listed above, numerous products are in earlier stages of development at other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that, if successful in clinical trials, may compete with our products. Changes in the third-party reimbursement environment may affect our product sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Sales of our products will depend significantly on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of our products and related treatments will be available to physicians and patients from various levels of U.S. and international government health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations. Third-party payers and government health administration authorities increasingly attempt to limit and/or regulate the reimbursement of medical products and services, including branded prescription drugs. Changes in government legislation or regulation, such as the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003; the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005; the Medicare, Medicaid, and State Children’s Health Insurance Program Extension Act of 2007; and the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008; changes in formulary or compendia listings; or changes in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for our products may reduce reimbursement of our products’ costs to physicians, pharmacies, and distributors. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our products could reduce usage of the products, sales to collaborators, and royalties, and may have a material adverse effect on our product sales, results of operations, and financial condition. The pricing and reimbursement environment for our products may change in the future and become more challenging due to, among other reasons, policies advanced by the new presidential administration, new healthcare legislation passed by Congress or fiscal challenges faced by all levels of government health administration authorities. -15- We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products. We are subject to stringent regulations with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international, federal, state, and local authorities. Of particular significance are the FDA’s requirements covering R&D, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, and promotion of drugs for human use. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures, and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of a BLA or NDA are substantial and can require a number of years. In addition, even if our products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA regulations, including, for example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians, and/or a product recall or withdrawal. We may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of the products we are developing or manufacturing, or we may not maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our existing products, and all of the following could have a material adverse effect on our business: Ÿ Significant delays in obtaining or failing to obtain approvals, as described above in “The successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time.” Ÿ Loss of, or changes to, previously obtained approvals or accelerated approvals, including those resulting from post-approval safety or efficacy issues. For example, with respect to the FDA’s accelerated approval of Avastin in combination with paclitaxel chemotherapy for the treatment of patients who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic HER2-negative BC, the FDA may withdraw or modify such approval, or request additional post-marketing studies. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain regulatory approval for Raptiva, or we may be subject to other regulatory requirements or actions that significantly restrict the use of Raptiva, due to cases of PML in Raptiva patients. On February 19, 2009, the European Medicines Agency announced that it recommended the suspension of the marketing authorization for Raptiva from our collaborator, Merck Serono, and the FDA issued a public health advisory regarding Raptiva, as discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Ÿ Failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements. Ÿ A determination by the FDA that study endpoints used in clinical trials for our products are not sufficient for product approval. Ÿ Changes to manufacturing processes, manufacturing process standards, or cGMP following approval, or changing interpretations of those factors. In addition, the current regulatory framework could change, or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product development or marketing that may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products or require us to make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing or difficulties in accurately forecasting manufacturing capacity needs, could harm our business and/or negatively affect our financial performance. Manufacturing pharmaceutical products is difficult and complex, and requires facilities specifically designed and validated for that purpose. It can take more than five years to design, construct, validate, and license a new biotechnology manufacturing facility. We currently produce our products at our manufacturing facilities in South San Francisco, Vacaville, and Oceanside, California, and through various contract-manufacturing arrangements. Maintaining an adequate supply to meet demand for our products depends on our ability to execute on our production plan. Any significant problem in the operations of our or our contractors’ manufacturing facilities could result in cancellation of shipments; loss of product in the process of being manufactured; a shortfall, stock-out, or recall of available product inventory; or unplanned increases in production costs—any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of factors could cause significant production problems or interruptions, including: Ÿ The inability of a supplier to provide raw materials or supplies used to manufacture our products. -16- Ÿ Equipment obsolescence, malfunctions, or failures. Ÿ Product quality or contamination problems, due to a number of factors including, but not limited to, accidental or willful human error. Ÿ Damage to a facility, including our warehouses and distribution facilities, due to events such as fires or earthquakes, as our South San Francisco, Vacaville, and Oceanside facilities are located in areas where earthquakes and/or fires have occurred. Ÿ Changes in FDA regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to our manufacturing processes. Ÿ Action by the FDA or by us that results in the halting or slowdown of production of one or more of our products or products that we make for others. Ÿ A supplier or contract manufacturer going out of business or failing to produce product as contractually required. Ÿ Failure to maintain an adequate state of cGMP compliance. See also, “Our business is affected by macroeconomic conditions.” In addition, there are inherent uncertainties associated with forecasting future demand or actual demand for our products or products that we produce for others, and as a consequence we may have inadequate capacity or inventory to meet actual demand. Alternatively, as a result of these inherent uncertainties, we may have excess capacity or inventory, which could lead to an idling of a portion of our manufacturing facilities, during which time we would incur unabsorbed or idle plant charges, costs associated with the termination of existing contract manufacturing relationships, costs associated with a reduction in workforce, costs associated with unsalable inventory, or other excess capacity charges, resulting in an increase in our cost of sales (COS). For example, in 2008, we recognized charges of approximately $90 million related to unexpected failed lots, delays in manufacturing start-up campaigns, and excess capacity. Difficulties or delays in our or our contractors’ manufacturing of existing or new products could increase our costs; cause us to lose revenue or market share; damage our reputation; and result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Difficulties or delays in obtaining materials from our suppliers could harm our business and/or negatively affect our financial performance. Certain of our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our principal products, or products that we make for others, are available only through sole-source suppliers (the only recognized supplier available to us) or single-source suppliers (the only approved supplier for us among other sources). If such sole-source or single-source suppliers were to limit or terminate production or otherwise fail to supply these materials for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such raw materials and supplies without significant delay or at all, and such failures could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and our business. Difficulties or delays in our or our contractors’ supply of existing or new products could increase our costs; cause us to lose revenue or market share; damage our reputation; and result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Protecting our proprietary rights is difficult and costly. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the breadth of claims that will be allowed -17- in patents, nor can we predict with certainty the outcome of disputes about the infringement, validity, or enforceability of patents. Patent disputes are frequent and may ultimately preclude the commercialization of products. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be involved in material litigation and other legal proceedings related to our proprietary rights, such as the Cabilly patent litigation and re-examination (discussed in Note 9, “Leases, Commitments, and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K), the proprietary rights of third parties, and disputes in connection with licenses granted to or obtained from third parties. Such litigation and other legal proceedings are costly in their own right and could subject us to significant liabilities including the payment of significant royalty expenses, the loss of significant royalty income, or other expenses or losses. Furthermore, an adverse decision or ruling could force us to obtain third-party licenses at a material cost, cease using the technology in dispute, terminate the R&D or commercialization of a product, cause us to incur a material loss of sales and/or royalties and other revenue from licensing arrangements that we have with third parties, and/or significantly interfere with our ability to negotiate future licensing arrangements. The presence of patents or other proprietary rights belonging to other parties may subject us to infringement claims and may lead to a loss of our entire investment in a product or technology. If there is an adverse outcome in our pending litigation or other legal actions, our business may be harmed. Litigation and other legal actions to which we are currently or have been subject to relate to, among other things, our patent and other intellectual property rights, licensing arrangements and other contracts with third parties, and product liability. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending proceedings, which may include an injunction against the development, manufacture, or sale of a product or potential product; a judgment with a significant monetary award, including the possibility of punitive damages; or a judgment that certain of our patent or other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. Furthermore, we may have to incur substantial expense in these proceedings, and such matters could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. Our activities related to the sale and marketing of our products are subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). In 1999, we agreed to pay $50 million to settle a federal investigation related to our past clinical, sales, and marketing activities associated with human growth hormone. We are currently being investigated by the Department of Justice with respect to our promotional practices and may in the future be investigated for our promotional practices related to any of our products. If the government were to bring charges against us, if we were convicted of violating federal or state statutes, or if we were subject to third-party litigation related to the same promotional practices, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due in part to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If we were found liable for violating these laws, or if the government were to allege that we have violated, or if we are convicted of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including our stock price. -18- Roche’s unsolicited proposal and related matters may adversely affect our business. On July 21, 2008, we announced that we received an unsolicited proposal from Roche to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock not owned by Roche (the Roche Proposal). A special committee of our Board of Directors, composed of the independent directors (the Special Committee) was formed to review and consider the terms and conditions of the Roche Proposal, any business combination with Roche or any offer by Roche to acquire our securities, negotiate as appropriate, and, in the Special Committee’s discretion, recommend or not recommend the acceptance of the Roche Proposal by the minority shareholders. On August 13, 2008, we announced that the Special Committee had unanimously concluded that the Roche Proposal substantially undervalues the company, but would consider a proposal that recognizes the value of the company and reflects the significant benefits that would accrue to Roche as a result of full ownership. On January 30, 2009, Roche announced that it intended to commence a cash tender offer which would replace the Roche Proposal that was announced on July 21, 2008. On January 30, 2009, in response to the announcement by Roche, the Special Committee urged shareholders to take no action with respect to the announcement by Roche and that the Special Committee will announce a formal position within 10 business days following the commencement of such a tender offer by Roche. On February 9, 2009, Roche commenced a cash tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock not owned by Roche for $86.50 per share (the Roche Tender Offer). Also on February 9, 2009, the Special Committee urged shareholders to take no action with respect to the Roche Tender Offer. The Special Committee announced that it intended to take a formal position within 10 business days of the commencement of the Roche Tender Offer, and would explain in detail its reasons for that position by filing a Statement on Schedule 14D-9 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The review and response to the Roche Proposal, the Roche Tender Offer or any other tender offer or other proposal by Roche and related matters requires the expenditure of significant time and resources by us and may be a significant distraction for our management and employees. The Roche Proposal or the Roche Tender Offer may create uncertainty for our management, employees, current and potential collaborators, and other third parties. On August 18, 2008, the Special Committee adopted two retention plans and two severance plans that together cover substantially all employees of the company, including our named executive officers. The two retention plans were implemented in lieu of our 2008 annual stock option grant and the two severance plans were adopted in addition to existing severance plans. Nevertheless, this uncertainty could adversely affect our ability to retain key employees and to hire new talent; cause collaborators to terminate, or not to renew or enter into arrangements with us; and negatively impact our business during the pendency of the Roche Tender Offer or any other tender offer or other proposal by Roche or anytime thereafter. Additionally, we, members of our Board of Directors, and Roche entities have been named in several purported stockholder class-action complaints related to the Roche Proposal and may be named in lawsuits related to the Roche Tender Offer, which are more fully described in Note 9, “Leases, Commitments, and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. These lawsuits or any future lawsuits may become burdensome and result in significant costs of defense, indemnification, and liability. These consequences, alone or in combination, may harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See also “RHI, our controlling stockholder, may seek to influence our business in a manner that is adverse to us or adverse to other stockholders who may be unable to prevent actions by RHI” and “Our Affiliation Agreement with RHI could adversely affect our cash position.” RHI, our controlling stockholder, may seek to influence our business in a manner that is adverse to us or adverse to other stockholders who may be unable to prevent actions by RHI. As our majority stockholder, RHI controls the outcome of most actions requiring the approval of our stockholders. Our bylaws provide, among other things, that the composition of our Board of Directors shall consist of at least three directors designated by RHI, three independent directors nominated by the Nominations Committee, and one Genentech executive officer nominated by the Nominations Committee. Our bylaws also provide that RHI will have the right to obtain proportional representation on our Board of Directors until such time that RHI owns less than five percent of our stock. In connection with the Roche Tender Offer, RHI stated that whether or not the tender offer is consummated, RHI may exercise its rights to obtain proportional representation on our Board of Directors and take a more active role in overseeing the management and policies of Genentech. Currently, three of our directors—Mr. William Burns, Dr. Erich Hunziker, and Dr. Jonathan K. C. Knowles—also serve as officers and employees of -19- Roche. As long as RHI owns more than 50 percent of our Common Stock, RHI directors will be two of the three members of the Nominations Committee. Our certificate of incorporation includes provisions related to competition by RHI affiliates with Genentech, offering of corporate opportunities, transactions with interested parties, intercompany agreements, and provisions limiting the liability of specified employees. We cannot assure that RHI will not seek to influence our business in a manner that is contrary to our goals or strategies, or the interests of other stockholders. Moreover, persons who are directors of Genentech and who are also directors and/or officers of RHI may decline to take action in a manner that might be favorable to us but adverse to RHI. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation provides that any person purchasing or acquiring an interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have consented to the provisions in the certificate of incorporation related to competition with RHI, conflicts of interest with RHI, the offer of corporate opportunities to RHI, and intercompany agreements with RHI. This deemed consent might restrict our ability to challenge transactions carried out in compliance with these provisions. Our Affiliation Agreement with RHI could adversely affect our cash position. Under our July 1999 Affiliation Agreement with RHI (Affiliation Agreement), we have established a stock repurchase program designed to maintain RHI’s percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock based on an established Minimum Percentage. The Affiliation Agreement provides that the percentage of our Common Stock owned by RHI could be up to 2% below the Minimum Percentage (subject to certain conditions). However, it also provides that, upon RHI’s request, we will repurchase shares of our Common Stock to increase RHI’s ownership to the Minimum Percentage. Such a request by RHI may adversely affect our cash position. Based on the trading price of our Common Stock and RHI’s approximate ownership percentage as of December 31, 2008, to raise RHI’s percentage ownership to the Minimum Percentage would require us to spend approximately $3 billion for share repurchases. Limitations in our ability to repurchase shares could result in further dilution, which could increase the number of shares required to be repurchased in order to raise RHI’s percentage ownership to the Minimum Percentage. For more information on our stock repurchase program, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash Used in Financing Activities,” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. For information on the Minimum Percentage, see Note 10, “Relationship with Roche Holdings, Inc. and Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. RHI’s ownership percentage is diluted by the exercise of stock options to purchase shares of our Common Stock by our employees and the purchase of shares of our Common Stock through our employee stock purchase plan. See Note 3, “Retention Plans and Employee Stock-Based Compensation,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information regarding employee stock plans. In order to maintain RHI’s Minimum Percentage, we repurchase shares of our Common Stock under the stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2008, if all holders of exercisable in-the-money stock options had exercised their stock options, to offset dilution of such exercises would require us to spend approximately $2 billion for share repurchases, net of the exercise price of the stock options. In the first quarter of 2008, we received approximately four million shares under a $300 million prepaid share repurchase arrangement that we entered into and funded in 2007. In the second quarter of 2008, we entered into another prepaid share repurchase arrangement with an investment bank pursuant to which we delivered $500 million to the investment bank. Under this arrangement, the investment bank delivered approximately 5.5 million shares to us on September 30, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, there were in-the-money exercisable options outstanding for the purchase of approximately 45 million shares of Common Stock. While the cash outflows associated with future stock repurchase programs are uncertain, future stock repurchases could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, credit rating, and ability to access additional capital in the financial markets. Our Affiliation Agreement with RHI could limit our ability to make acquisitions or divestitures. Our Affiliation Agreement with RHI contains provisions that: Ÿ Require the approval of the directors designated by RHI to make any acquisition that represents 10 percent or more of our assets, net income, or revenue; or any sale or disposal of all or a portion of our business representing 10 percent or more of our assets, net income, or revenue. -20- Ÿ Enable RHI to maintain its percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock. Ÿ Require us to establish a stock repurchase program designed to maintain RHI’s percentage ownership interest in our Common Stock based on an established Minimum Percentage. For information regarding the Minimum Percentage, see Note 10, “Relationship with Roche Holdings, Inc. and Related Party Transactions,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Sales of our Common Stock by RHI could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline. As of December 31, 2008, RHI owned 587,189,380 shares of our Common Stock, or 55.8% of our outstanding shares. All of our shares owned by RHI are eligible for sale in the public market subject to compliance with the applicable securities laws. We have agreed that, upon RHI’s request, we will file one or more registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933 in order to permit RHI to offer and sell shares of our Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock by RHI in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Our results of operations are affected by our royalty and contract revenue, and sales to collaborators. Royalty and contract revenue, and sales to collaborators in future periods, could vary significantly. Major factors affecting this revenue include, but are not limited to: Ÿ Roche’s decisions about whether to exercise its options and option extensions to develop and sell our future products in non-U.S. markets, and the timing and amount of any related development cost reimbursements. Ÿ The expiration or termination of existing arrangements with other companies and Roche, which may include development and marketing arrangements for our products in the U.S., Europe, and other countries. Ÿ The timing of non-U.S. approvals, if any, for products licensed to Roche and other licensees. Ÿ Government and third-party payer reimbursement and coverage decisions that affect the utilization of our products and competing products. Ÿ The initiation of new contractual arrangements with other companies. Ÿ Whether and when contract milestones are achieved. Ÿ The failure or refusal of a licensee to pay royalties or to make other contractual payments, the termination of a contract under which we receive royalties or other revenue, or changes to the terms of such a contract. Ÿ The expiration of, or an adverse legal decision or ruling with respect to, our patents or licensed intellectual property. See “Protecting our proprietary rights is difficult and costly” and the Cabilly patent litigation and re-examination discussion in Note 9, “Leases, Commitments, and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Ÿ Variations in Roche’s or other licensees’ sales of their licensed products due to competition, manufacturing difficulties, licensees’ internal forecasts, or other factors that affect the sales of products. Ÿ Variations in the recognition of royalty revenue based on our estimates of our licensees’ sales, which are difficult to forecast because of the number of products involved, the availability of licensee sales data, potential contractual and intellectual property disputes, and the volatility of foreign exchange rates. Ÿ Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the effect of any hedging contracts that we have entered into under our hedging policy. -21- Ÿ Negative safety or efficacy data from clinical studies conducted either in the U.S. or internationally by any party or post-approval marketing experience could cause the sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled or withdrawn. Other factors could affect our product sales. Other factors that could affect our product sales include, but are not limited to: Ÿ Efficacy data from clinical studies conducted by any party in the U.S. or internationally showing, or perceived to show, a similar or improved treatment benefit at a lower dose or shorter duration of therapy could cause the sales of our products to decrease. Ÿ Our pricing decisions, including a decision to increase or decrease the price of a product; the pricing decisions of our competitors; as well as our Avastin Patient Assistance Program. Ÿ Negative safety or efficacy data from clinical studies conducted either in the U.S. or internationally by any party or post-approval marketing experience could cause the sales of our products to decrease or a product to be recalled or withdrawn. Ÿ The outcome of litigation involving patents of other companies concerning our products (or those of our collaborators) or processes related to production and formulation of those products or uses of those products. Ÿ Our distribution strategy, including the termination of, or change in, an existing arrangement with any major wholesalers that supply our products, and sales initiatives that we may undertake including product discounts. Ÿ Product returns and allowances greater than expected or historically experienced. Ÿ The inability of one or more of our major customers to maintain their ordering patterns or inventory levels, to efficiently and effectively distribute our products, or to meet their payment obligations to us on a timely basis or at all. Ÿ The inability of patients to afford co-pay costs due to an economic contraction or recession, increases in co-pay costs, or for any other reason. Any of the following additional factors could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain skilled personnel and maintain key relationships. The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to (1) attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing, and sales and marketing personnel, (2) successfully integrate new employees into our corporate culture, and (3) develop and maintain important relationships with leading research and medical institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense, and may intensify due to, among other reasons, uncertainty regarding the Roche Tender Offer or any other tender offer or other proposal by Roche to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock not owned by Roche. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract or retain skilled personnel or maintain key relationships, or that the costs of retaining such personnel or maintaining such relationships will not materially increase. Our business is affected by macroeconomic conditions. Various macroeconomic factors could affect our business and the results of our operations. For instance, if inflation or other factors were to significantly increase our business costs, it may not be feasible to pass significant price increases on to our customers due to the process by which physician reimbursement for our products is calculated by -22- the government. Interest rates and the ability to access credit markets could affect the ability of our customers/distributors to purchase, pay for, and effectively distribute our products. Similarly, these macroeconomic factors could affect the ability of our sole-source or single-source suppliers to remain in business or otherwise supply product; failure by any of them to remain a going concern could affect our ability to manufacture products. Macroeconomic factors could also affect the ability of patients to pay for co-pay costs or otherwise pay for our products. Interest rates and the liquidity of the credit markets could also affect the value of our investments. Foreign currency exchange rates may affect our royalty revenue as well as the costs of R&D and manufacturing activities denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. We may incur material product liability costs. The testing and marketing of medical products entails an inherent risk of product liability. Liability exposures for pharmaceutical products can be extremely large and pose a material risk. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by a successful product liability claim or claims in excess of any insurance coverage that we may have. Insurance coverage may be more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain. We currently have a limited amount of insurance to minimize our direct exposure to certain business risks. In the future, we may be exposed to an increase in premiums, a narrowing scope of coverage, and default risk from our underwriters. As a result, we may be required to assume more risk or make significant expenditures to maintain our current levels of insurance. If we are subject to third-party claims or suffer a loss or damages in excess of our insurance coverage, we will incur the cost of the portion of the retained risk. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may affect our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs. We are subject to environmental and other risks. We use certain hazardous materials in connection with our research and manufacturing activities. In the event that such hazardous materials are stored, handled, or released into the environment in violation of law or any permit, we could be subject to loss of our permits, government fines or penalties, and/or other adverse governmental or private actions. The levy of a substantial fine or penalty, the payment of significant environmental remediation costs, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could materially adversely affect our business. We also have acquired, and may continue to acquire in the future, land and buildings as we expand our operations. Some of these properties are “brownfields” for which redevelopment or use is complicated by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant. Certain events that could occur may require us to pay significant clean-up or other costs in order to maintain our operations on those properties. Such events include, but are not limited to, changes in environmental laws, discovery of new contamination, or unintended exacerbation of existing contamination. The occurrence of any such event could materially affect our ability to continue our business operations on those properties. Fluctuations in our operating results could affect the price of our Common Stock. Our operating results may vary from period to period for several reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: Ÿ The overall competitive environment for our products, as described in “We face competition” above, factors affecting our royalty and contract revenue and sales to collaborators, as described in “Our results of operations are affected by our royalty and contract revenue, and sales to collaborators” above, and other factors that could affect our products sales as described in “Other factors could affect our product sales” above. Ÿ Increased COS, R&D, and marketing, general and administrative expenses; stock-based or other compensation expenses; litigation-related expenses; asset impairments; and equity securities write-downs. -23- Ÿ Changes in the economy, the credit markets, increased counterparty performance risks, interest rates, credit ratings, and the liquidity of our investments, and the effects that such changes or volatility may have on the value of our interest-bearing or equity investments. Ÿ Changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the effect of any hedging contracts that we have entered into under our policy and the effects that they may have on our royalty revenue, contract revenue, R&D expenses and foreign-currency-denominated investments. Ÿ The availability and extent of government and private third-party reimbursements for the cost of our products. Ÿ The ability to successfully manufacture sufficient quantities of any particular marketed product. Fluctuation in our operating results due to factors described above or for any other reason could affect the price of our Common Stock. We may be unable to manufacture certain of our products if there is bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) contamination of our bovine source raw material. Most biotechnology companies, including Genentech, have historically used, and continue to use, bovine source raw materials to support cell growth in certain production processes. Bovine source raw materials from within or outside the U.S. are subject to public and regulatory scrutiny because of the perceived risk of contamination with the infectious agent that causes BSE. Should such BSE contamination occur, it would likely negatively affect our ability to manufacture certain products for an indefinite period of time (or at least until an alternative process is approved); negatively affect our reputation; and could result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. We could experience disruptions to our internal operations due to information system problems, which could decrease revenue and increase expenses. Portions of our information technology infrastructure, and those of our service providers, may experience interruptions, delays, or cessations of service, or produce errors. Any disruptions that may occur to our current or future systems, could adversely affect our ability to report in an accurate and timely manner the results of our consolidated operations, financial position, and cash flows. Disruptions to these systems also could adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other operational processes. Delayed sales, lower margins, or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results. Our stock price, like that of many biotechnology companies, is volatile. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Among other factors, the following may have a significant effect on the market price of our Common Stock: Ÿ The Roche Tender Offer or any other tender offer or other proposal by Roche to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock not owned by Roche. In addition, other future developments and announcements related to the Roche Tender Offer or any other tender offer or other proposal by Roche to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock not owned by Roche may result in further volatility in the price of our Common Stock. Ÿ Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors. Ÿ Publicity regarding actual or potential medical results related to products under development or being commercialized by us or our competitors. -24- Ÿ Our financial results or the guidance we provide relating to our financial results. Ÿ Concerns about our pricing initiatives and distribution strategy, and the potential effect of such initiatives and strategy on the utilization of our products or our product sales. Ÿ Developments or outcomes of litigation, including litigation regarding proprietary and patent rights (including, for example, the Cabilly patent discussed in Note 9, “Leases, Commitments, and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K), and governmental investigations. Ÿ Regulatory developments or delays affecting our products in the U.S. and other countries. Ÿ Issues concerning the efficacy or safety of our products, or of biotechnology products generally. Ÿ Economic and other external factors or a disaster or crisis. Ÿ New proposals to change or reform the U.S. healthcare system, including, but not limited to, new regulations concerning reimbursement or follow-on biologics. Our effective income tax rate may vary. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our future effective income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations, and/or rates; the results of any tax examinations; changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations; changes in estimates of prior years’ items; past and future levels of R&D spending; acquisitions; changes in our corporate structure; and changes in overall levels of income before taxes—all of which may result in periodic revisions to our effective income tax rate. Paying our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash and may adversely affect our operations and financial results. As of December 31, 2008, we had $2.0 billion of long-term debt and $500 million of commercial paper notes payable. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures and R&D, as well as stock repurchases and expansion efforts, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are and will remain beyond our control. Additionally, our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, R&D, expansion efforts, and other general corporate purposes; and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 