ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this annual report including in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, other written or oral statements that constitute forward-looking statements may be made by or on behalf of the Company. Although we have based these statements on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to them, they are subject to risks and uncertainties. We wish to ensure that such statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to obtain the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, such statements are qualified by reference to the discussion below of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that our list of risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, undue reliance should not be put on any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following risks and uncertainties, among others, should be considered in evaluating our outlook of future Company performance. We sell our services in highly competitive markets, which puts pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our services. The markets for our services can be fragmented and highly competitive. No assurances can be made that we will continue to maintain or increase our market share. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in hiring or retaining members of a skilled technical workforce. The loss of the services of a number of these individuals or failure to attract new employees could adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on our customers’ projects or maintenance and consequently could negatively impact the demand for our products and services and consequently our financial condition and operating results. We have a skilled technical workforce and an industry recognized technician training program for each of our service lines that prepares new employees as well as further trains our existing employees. The competition for these individuals is intense. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive governmental regulation under environmental laws. These laws and regulations can impose substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes that may limit our services. We must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all locations in which we operate. We may incur material costs as a result of general liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These claims may result from catastrophic events to which we may be at fault or have indemnified certain parties deemed to be at fault. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. In addition, liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a liability claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our services, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our services and our Company. Economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. A portion of our operations are conducted and located outside the United States and, accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including changes in foreign currency 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements exchange rates, instability in political or economic conditions, differing employee relations, trade protection measures, and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures. Our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by the cyclical nature of their markets and their liquidity. The ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may be affected by factors independent of those conditions such as liquidity constraints or postponing projects until favorable financial capital markets are present. We may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through attractive acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. Furthermore, no assurances can be made that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. If we are not able to address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us. Our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, rising interest rates and industry conditions, limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities as a result of various restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements. The price of our outstanding securities may suffer if we cannot control fluctuations in our sales and operating results. Historically, our quarterly and annual sales and operating results have fluctuated. We expect fluctuations to continue in the future. In addition to general economic and political conditions, the following factors affect our sales: the timing of significant customer orders, changes in competitive pricing, wide variations in profitability by product line, variations in operating expenses, the timing of announcements or introductions of new products or services by us, our competitors or our respective customers, the acceptance of those services, our ability to adequately meet staffing requirements with qualified personnel, relative variations in manufacturing efficiencies and costs, and the relative strength or weakness of international markets. Since our quarterly and annual sales and operating results vary, we believe that period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on those comparisons as indicators of our future performance. Due to the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future quarter or quarters our revenues or operating results will not meet the expectations of the public stock market analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our outstanding securities to decline or be volatile. Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages, staffing shortages, and other labor matters. As of June 30, 2006, we had approximately 2,700 employees and contractors, approximately 2,400 of whom were located in the United States. Approximately 4% of our employees are represented by unions. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good and we have not experienced any recent strikes or work stoppages, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees, or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor. Other risk factors include, but are not limited to: • the effects of extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes; • acts of terrorism aimed at either our facilities or our customer facilities that could impair our ability to conduct business; 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • rulings, judgments or settlements in litigation or other legal or regulatory matters including unexpected environmental remediation costs in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; • legislation or regulatory action, including the introduction or enactment of federal, state or foreign legislation or rulemakings, which may adversely affect our business or operations including changes in tax laws in the United States or in foreign countries; and • overall economic conditions. Any one of these factors, or a combination of these factors, could materially affect our future results of operations and whether any forward-looking statements ultimately prove to be accurate. Our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results and future performance may differ materially from those suggested in any forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update these statements unless we are required by the securities laws to do so. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 