ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Past financial performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors in our common stock should not use historical performance to anticipate results or future period trends. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risk factors described below should be carefully considered in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. The following risks and uncertainties should be considered in evaluating our outlook of future Company performance. The current economic environment may affect our customers’ demand for our services. The ongoing economic uncertainty has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit and, in many cases, reduced demand for our customers’ products. Continued disruption of the credit markets could also adversely affect our customers’ ability to finance on-going maintenance and new projects, resulting in contract cancellations or suspensions, and project delays. An extended or deepening recession may result in further plant closures or other contractions in our customer base. These factors may also adversely affect our ability to collect payment for work we have previously performed. Furthermore, our ability to expand our business could be limited if, in the future, we are unable to increase our credit capacity under favorable terms or at all. Such disruptions, should they occur, could materially impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our revenues are heavily dependent on certain industries. Sales of our services are dependent on customers in certain industries, particularly the refining and petrochemical industries. As experienced in the past, and as expected to occur in the future, downturns characterized by diminished demand for services in these industries could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We sell our services in highly competitive markets, which places pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our services. Our competition generally stems from other outside service contractors, many of whom offer a similar range of services. The ongoing economic uncertainty has generally reduced demand for industrial services and thus created a more competitive bidding environment for new and existing work. No assurances can be made that we will continue to maintain our pricing model and our profit margins or increase our market share. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in maintaining or renewing our contracts with our customers. A significant portion of our contracts and agreements with customers may be terminated by either party on short notice. Although we actively pursue the renewal of our contracts, we cannot assure that we will be able to renew these contracts or that the terms of the renewed contracts will be as favorable as the existing contracts. If we are unable to renew or replace these contracts, or if we renew on less favorable terms, we may suffer a material reduction in revenue and earnings. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in hiring or retaining members of a skilled technical workforce. We have a skilled technical workforce and an industry recognized technician training program for each of our service lines that prepares new employees as well as further trains our existing employees. The competition for these individuals is intense. The loss of the services of a number of these individuals, or failure to attract new employees, could adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on our customers’ projects or maintenance and consequently could negatively impact the demand for our products and services. 6 Table of Contents Unsatisfactory safety performance can affect customer relationships, result in higher operating costs and negatively impact our ability to hire and retain a skilled technical workforce. Our workers are subject to the normal hazards associated with providing services at industrial facilities. Even with proper safety precautions, these hazards can lead to personal injury, loss of life, destruction of property, plant and equipment, lower employee morale and environmental damage. We are intensely focused on maintaining a strong safety environment and reducing the risk of accidents to the lowest possible level. Poor safety performance may limit or eliminate potential revenue streams from many of our largest customers and may materially increase our future insurance and other operating costs. Although we maintain insurance coverage, such coverage may be inadequate to protect us from all expenses related to these risks. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive governmental regulation under environmental laws. Environmental laws and regulations can impose substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes that may limit our services. We must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all locations in which we operate. These actions may increase the overall costs of providing our services. Some of our services involve handling or monitoring highly regulated materials, including volatile organic compounds or hazardous wastes. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require us to obtain permits and comply with various other requirements. The improper characterization, handling, disposal or monitoring of regulated materials or any other failure by us to comply with increasingly complex and strictly enforced federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations or associated environmental permits could subject us to the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our ability to operate our business and complete contracted services. A defect in our services or faulty workmanship could result in an environmental liability if, as a result of the defect or faulty workmanship, a contaminate is released into the environment. We currently maintain liability insurance to limit any potential loss, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will fully protect us against a claim or loss. We perform services in hazardous environments on or around high-pressure, high temperature systems and our employees are exposed to a number of hazards, including exposure to hazardous materials, explosion hazards and fire hazards. Incidents that occur at these large industrial facilities or systems, regardless of fault, may be catastrophic and adversely impact our employees and third parties by causing serious personal injury, loss of life, damage to property or the environment, and interruption of operations. Our contracts typically require us to indemnify our customers for injury, damage or loss arising out of our presence at our customers’ location, regardless of fault, or the performance of our services and provide for warranties for materials and workmanship. We may also be required to name the customer as an additional insured under our insurance policies. We maintain insurance coverage against these and other risks associated with our business. Due to the high cost of general liability coverage, we maintain insurance with a self-insured retention of $3 million per occurrence. This insurance may not protect us against liability for certain events, including events involving pollution, product or professional liability, losses resulting from business interruption or acts of terrorism or damages from breach of contract by the Company. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. Moreover, in the future, we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any future damages caused by our products or services that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We are involved and are likely to continue to be involved in legal proceedings, which will increase our costs and, if adversely determined, could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We are currently a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the operation of our business and it is reasonable to expect that we will be named in future actions. Most of the legal proceedings against us arise out of the normal course of performing services at customer facilities, and include claims for workers’ compensation, personal injury and property damage. Legal proceedings can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate 7 Table of Contents outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our operations are conducted and located outside the United States and, accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, instability in political or economic conditions, difficulty in repatriating cash proceeds, differing employee relations, differing regulatory environments, trade protection measures, and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. and foreign anti-corruption regulations applicable to us such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and the United Kingdom Bribery Act. Our international business operations may include projects in countries where corruption is prevalent. Although we have, and continue to, implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors or agents, including those representing us in countries where practices which violate such anti-corruption laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. Any violation of foreign or U.S. laws by our employees, contractors or agents, even if such violation is prohibited by our policies and procedures, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our growth strategy entails risk for investors. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions in, or complementary to, the specialty maintenance and construction services industry to complement and diversify our existing business. We may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through attractive acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. From time to time, we make acquisitions of other businesses that enhance our services or the geographic scope. No assurances can be made that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. If we are not able to address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. The consideration paid in connection with an acquisition may also affect our share price or future financial results depending on the structure of such consideration. To the extent we issue stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, existing shareholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of additional debt. The price of our outstanding securities may be volatile. It is possible that in some future quarter or quarters our revenues, operating results or other measures of financial performance will not meet the expectations of public stock market analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our outstanding securities to decline or be volatile. Historically, our quarterly and annual sales and operating results have fluctuated. We expect fluctuations to continue in the future. In addition to general economic and political conditions, the following factors may affect our sales and operating results: the timing of significant customer orders, the timing of planned maintenance projects at customer facilities, changes in competitive pricing, wide variations in profitability by product line, variations in operating expenses, rapid increases in raw material and labor costs, the timing of announcements or introductions of new products or services by us, our competitors or our respective customers, the acceptance of those services, our ability to adequately meet staffing requirements with qualified personnel, relative variations in manufacturing efficiencies and costs, and the relative strength or weakness of international markets. Since our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results vary, we believe that period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages, staffing shortages and other labor matters. At May 31, 2012, we had approximately 3,800 employees and contractors, approximately 700 of whom were located in Canada and Europe where employees predominantly are represented by unions. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good and we have had no strikes or work stoppages, no 8 Table of Contents assurances can be made that we will not experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees, or our employees in general, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in reduced demand for our services and products. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” may be contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere. As a result, there have been a variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements and legislative initiatives that have been introduced in the United States (and other parts of the world) that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. The adoption and implementation of any regulations which impose limiting emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from customers for whom we provide repair and maintenance services could affect demand for our products and services. Interruptions in the proper functioning of our information systems could disrupt operations and cause increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of our information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards, our information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, our business operations could be adversely affected. Other risk factors. Other risk factors may include interruption of our operations, or the operations of our customers due to fire, hurricanes, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, labor disruptions, health epidemics and other events beyond our control. Any one of these factors, or a combination of these factors, could materially affect our future results of operations, financial position or cash flows and whether any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K ultimately prove to be accurate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 