ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors described below should be carefully considered in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. The following risks and uncertainties, should be considered in evaluating our outlook of future Company performance. We sell our services in highly competitive markets, which places pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our services. Our competition generally stems from other outside service contractors, many of whom offer a similar range of services. No assurances can be made that we will continue to maintain our pricing model and our profit margins or increase our market share. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in maintaining or renewing our contracts with our customers. A significant portion of our contracts and agreements with customers may be terminated by either party on short notice. Although we actively pursue the renewal of our contracts, we can not assure that we will be able to renew these contracts or that the terms of the renewed contracts will be as favorable as the existing contracts. If we are unable to renew or replace these contracts, or if we renew on less favorable terms, we may suffer a material reduction in revenue and earnings. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in hiring or retaining members of a skilled technical workforce. We have a skilled technical workforce and an industry recognized technician training 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements program for each of our service lines that prepares new employees as well as further trains our existing employees. The competition for these individuals is intense. The loss of the services of a number of these individuals or failure to attract new employees could adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on our customers’ projects or maintenance and consequently could negatively impact the demand for our products and services and consequently our financial condition and operating results. Unsatisfactory safety performance can affect customer relationships, result in higher operating costs, and negatively impact our ability to hire and retain a skilled technical workforce. Our workers are subject to the normal hazards associated with providing services at industrial facilities. Even with proper safety precautions, these hazards can lead to personal injury, loss of life, damage to, or destruction of, property, plant and equipment, lower employee morale and environmental damage. We are intensely focused on maintaining a strong safety environment and reducing the risk of accidents to the lowest possible level. Poor safety performance may limit or eliminate potential revenue streams from many of our largest customers and may materially increase our future insurance and other operating costs. Our growth strategy requires that we increase the size of our workforce. While we normally target experienced personnel for employment, we also hire inexperienced employees. Even with thorough training, inexperienced employees have a higher likelihood of injury which could lead to higher operating costs and insurance rates. Although we maintain insurance coverage, such coverage may be inadequate to protect us from all expenses related to these risks. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive governmental regulation under environmental laws. These laws and regulations can impose substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes that may limit our services. We must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all locations in which we operate. These actions may increase the overall costs of providing our services. Some of our services involve handling or monitoring highly regulated materials, including hazardous wastes. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require us to obtain permits and comply with various other requirements. The improper characterization, handling, disposal or monitoring of regulated materials or any other failure by us to comply with increasingly complex and strictly enforced federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations or associated environmental permits could subject us to the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our ability to operate our business and complete contracted services. A defect in our services or faulty workmanship could result in an environmental liability if, as a result of the defect or faulty workmanship, a contaminate is released into the environment. We currently maintain liability insurance with pollution coverage to limit any potential loss, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will fully protect us against a valid claim or loss. We are involved and are likely to continue to be involved in legal proceedings, which will increase our costs and, if adversely determined, could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the operation of our business and it is reasonable to expect that we will be named in future actions. Most of the legal proceedings against us arise out of the normal course of performing services at customer facilities, and include claims for workers’ compensation, personal injury and property damage. Legal proceedings can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a liability claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows (Please see Note 12 to our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements). Economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our operations are conducted and located outside the United States and, accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, instability in political or economic conditions, differing employee relations, trade protection measures, and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by the cyclical nature of their markets and their liquidity. The ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance expenditures, and therefore, hire us for projects, may be affected by factors independent of those conditions such as liquidity constraints or postponing projects until favorable financial capital markets are present. Our growth strategy entails risk for investors. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions in the specialty maintenance and construction services industry to complement and diversify our existing business. We may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through attractive acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. From time to time, we make acquisitions of other business that enhance our services or the geographic scope of our Company. No assurances can be made that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. If we are not able to address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. The consideration paid in connection with an acquisition may also affect our financial results. To the extent we issue stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, existing shareholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of additional debt. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us. Our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, industry conditions and rising interest rates, limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities as a result of various restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements. The price of our outstanding securities may suffer if we cannot control fluctuations in our sales and operating results. Historically, our quarterly and annual sales and operating results have fluctuated. We expect fluctuations to continue in the future. In addition to general economic and political conditions, the following factors affect our sales: the timing of significant customer orders, the timing of planned maintenance projects at customer facilities, changes in competitive pricing, wide variations in profitability by product line, variations in operating expenses, rapid increases in raw material and labor costs, the timing of announcements or introductions of new products or services by us, our competitors or our respective customers, the acceptance of those services, our ability to adequately meet staffing requirements with qualified personnel, relative variations in manufacturing efficiencies and costs, and the relative strength or weakness of international markets. Since our quarterly and annual sales and operating results vary, we believe that period-to-period comparisons are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on those comparisons as indicators of our future performance. Due to the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future quarter or quarters our revenues or operating results will not meet the expectations of public stock market analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our outstanding securities to decline or be volatile. Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages, staffing shortages, and other labor matters. At May 31, 2008, we had approximately 3,700 employees and contractors, approximately 700 of whom were located in Canada and Europe where employees predominantly are represented by unions. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good and we have had no strikes or work stoppages, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees, or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Other risk factors include, but are not limited to: • the effects of extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes; • acts of terrorism aimed at either our facilities or our customer facilities that could impair our ability to conduct business; • rulings, judgments or settlements in litigation or other legal or regulatory matters including unexpected environmental remediation costs in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; • legislation or regulatory action, including the introduction or enactment of federal, state or foreign legislation or rulemakings, which may adversely affect our business or operations including changes in tax laws in the United States or in foreign countries; and • overall economic conditions. Any one of these factors, or a combination of these factors, could materially affect our future results of operations and whether any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K ultimately prove to be accurate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 