ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating us and our business. Business and Debt-Related Risk Factors Our business is dependent on conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, especially oil and natural gas prices and capital expenditures by oil and natural gas companies. The demand for our services is primarily influenced by current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas historically have been extremely volatile and have reacted to changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas. These include changes resulting from the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to establish and maintain production quotas to support oil prices, domestic and worldwide economic conditions and political instability in oil-producing countries. Weakness in oil and natural gas prices (or the perception by our customers that oil and natural gas prices will decrease) may cause lower rates for, and lower utilization of, available well service equipment. In addition, when oil and natural gas prices are weak, or when our customers expect oil and natural gas prices to decrease, fewer wells are drilled, resulting in less completion and maintenance work for us. Additional factors that affect demand for our services include: •the level of development, exploration and production activity of, and corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies; •oil and natural gas production costs; •government regulation; and •conditions in the worldwide oil and natural gas industry. In addition, we anticipate that prices for oil and natural gas will continue to be volatile and affect the demand for and pricing of our services. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices can result in a reduction in the trading prices and value of our securities, even if the decreases in oil and natural gas prices do not affect our business directly. Moreover, a material decline in oil or natural gas prices or activities over a sustained period of time could materially adversely affect the demand for our services and, therefore, our results of operations and financial condition. Periods of diminished or weakened demand for our services have occurred in the past. Although we experienced a material decrease in the demand for our services beginning in August 2001 and continuing through September 2002, since September 2002 we have experienced continued strong demand for our services. We believe the previous decrease in demand was due to an overall weakening 9 of demand for onshore well services, which was attributable to general uncertainty about future oil and natural gas prices and the U.S. economy, including the impact of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. If any of these conditions return, demand for our services could again decrease, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In light of these and other factors relating to the oil and natural gas industry, our historical operating results may not be indicative of future performance. We may be unable to implement pricing increases on our core services. A component of our business strategy includes charging higher prices on our core services in order to generate higher returns. During periods of strong industry activity when demand for our services has increased, we have been able to increase our prices. These increases have been initiated to offset our rising cost structure and to enhance our margins. We believe that we have been able to increase our prices due to strong industry conditions, our capabilities and our leading market position. In the event market conditions deteriorate, it may become more difficult for us to increase prices, and if demand for our services declines, some customers may seek pricing concessions. Additionally, in some cases, we have not been able to successfully increase prices without adversely affecting demand for our services. Specifically, some customers have elected to use our competition rather than to pay our higher price. The inability to secure further price increases could: •limit our ability to offset rising costs; and •impact our ability to generate higher free cash flow which would be used to expand our business. Increases in industry capacity may adversely affect our business. Over the past three years, new capacity, including new well service rigs, new pressure pumping equipment and new fishing and rental equipment, has entered the market. In some cases, the new capacity is attributable to start-up oilfield service companies and in other cases, the new capacity has been employed by existing service providers to increase their service capacity. Should oilfield service companies continue to add new capacity and demand for services not increase, it is possible that we could experience continued pressure on the pricing of our services. This could have a material negative impact our operating results. An economic downturn may adversely affect our business. A downturn in the U.S. economy may cause reduced demand for petroleum-based products and natural gas. In addition, many oil and natural gas production companies often reduce or delay expenditures to reduce costs, which in turn may cause a reduction in the demand for our services during these periods. We view the Baker Hughes U.S. land drilling rig count as a good barometer of oilfield service activity, which is driven by capital spending from oil and natural gas production companies. During 2002, the last economic slowdown in which activity levels fell, the Baker Hughes U.S. land drilling rig count declined to an average of 717. Since that time, activity levels, as measured by the Baker Hughes U.S. land drilling rig count, have improved. According to available industry data, in 2006, the average U.S. land drilling rig count was approximately 1,559 working rigs, as compared to an average of approximately 1,290 working rigs in 2005. The number of land drilling rigs may be seen as indicative of the demand for services such as those we provide. If the economic environment should deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. 10 Our business involves certain operating risks, which are primarily self-insured, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we might incur in our operations. Our operations are subject to many hazards and risks, including the following: •blow-outs, the uncontrolled flow of natural gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere or an underground formation; •reservoir damage; •fires and explosions; •accidents resulting in serious bodily injury and the loss of life or property; •pollution and other damage to the environment; and •liabilities from accidents or damage by our fleet of trucks, rigs and other equipment. If these hazards occur, they could result in suspension of operations, damage to or destruction of our equipment and the property of others, or injury or death to our or a third party's personnel. We self-insure a significant portion of these liabilities. For losses in excess of our self-insurance limits, we maintain insurance from unaffiliated commercial carriers. However, our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities that we might incur in our operations. Furthermore, our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability from all of the hazards of our business. We also are subject to the risk that we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at a reasonable cost. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were uninsured or for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the economic, political and social instability risks of doing business in certain foreign countries. We currently have operations in Argentina and Mexico and may expand our operations into other foreign countries. As a result, we are exposed to risks of international operations, including: •increased governmental ownership and regulation of the economy in the markets where we operate; •inflation and adverse economic conditions stemming from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; •increased trade barriers, such as higher tariffs and taxes on imports of commodity products; •exchange controls or other currency restrictions; •war, civil unrest or significant political instability; •expropriation, confiscatory taxation and nationalization of our assets located in the markets where we operate; •governmental policies limiting investments by and returns to foreign investors; •labor unrest and strikes; and •restrictive governmental regulation and bureaucratic delays. The occurrence of one or more of these risks may: •negatively impact our results of operations; •restrict the movement of funds and equipment; •inhibit our ability to collect receivables; and •lead to U.S. government or international sanctions. 11 We historically have experienced a high employee turnover rate. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding workers could adversely affect our business. We historically have experienced an annual employee turnover rate of almost 50%, although our turnover rate during 2006 improved to approximately 43%. The high turnover rate is attributable to the nature of the work, which is physically demanding and performed outdoors. As a result, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive with ours. We cannot assure that at times of high demand we will be able to retain, recruit and train an adequate number of workers. Potential inability or lack of desire by workers to commute to our facilities and job sites and competition for workers from competitors or other industries are factors that could affect our ability to attract and retain workers. We believe that our wage rates are competitive with the wage rates of our competitors and other potential employers. A significant increase in the wages other employers pay could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in our wage rates, or both. Either of these events could diminish our profitability and growth potential. We may not be successful in implementing technology development and technology enhancements. A component of our business strategy is to incorporate our technology into our well service rigs, primarily through the KeyView® system. The inability to successfully develop and integrate the technology could: •limit our ability to improve our market position; •increase our operating costs; and •limit our ability to recoup the investments made in technology initiatives. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that expose us to potential liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws that govern, among other things, the handling, storage and disposal of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous substances, and the discharge of hazardous materials into the environment. In addition to potential liability if we should fail to comply, environmental regulations may expose us to liability for noncompliance of other parties, without regard to whether we were negligent. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may include administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits and corrective action orders. Furthermore, we may be liable for costs for environmental clean-up at currently or previously owned or operated properties or off-site locations where we sent, disposed of, or arranged for disposal of hazardous materials. Our expenditures for environmental compliance have not been significant in the past but may increase in the future. Compliance with existing laws or regulations, adoption of new laws or regulations or more vigorous enforcement of environmental laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operations by increasing our expenses and limiting our future business opportunities. In addition, we conduct electric wireline logging, which entails the use of various downhole sondes that acquire geologic data from the surrounding well bore. The data is set up downhole using armored, insulated cable which has from one to seven electrical conductors inside. We use radioactive isotopes along with other nuclear, electrical, acoustic, and mechanical devices to evaluate downhole formations, such as Americium, Beryllium 241, Cesium 137, Iodine 131, and other isotopes. Our activities involving the use of isotopes are regulated by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission and specified agencies of applicable agreement states that work cooperatively in implementing the federal regulations. Additionally, we use high explosive charges for perforating casing and formations, and various explosive cutters to assist in well bore cleanout. Such operations are regulated by the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. Standards implemented by these regulatory 12 agencies require us to obtain licenses or other approvals for the use of densitometers as well as explosive charges. While we believe we are in substantial compliance with these requirements, failure to obtain necessary licenses or otherwise to comply with the law could adversely affect our business. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain materials used in providing our pressure pumping services. We rely heavily on three suppliers for sized sand, a principal raw material that is critical for our pressure pumping operations. While the materials are generally available, if we were to have a problem sourcing raw materials or transporting these materials from either of these vendors, our ability to provide pressure pumping services could be limited. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. We had $421.8 million of total indebtedness and capital lease obligations outstanding at December 31, 2006. As of June 30, 2007, we had $424.1 million of total indebtedness and capital lease obligations outstanding. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to conditions in the oil and gas industry, general economic and financial conditions, competition in the markets where we operate, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other capital needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may not able to refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to continue to implement the parts of our business strategy relating to strengthening our balance sheet by reducing debt, making acquisitions and remanufacturing our rigs and related equipment. Our debt instruments impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business. Our senior secured credit facility limits our ability to take various actions, such as: •incurring additional indebtedness; •paying dividends; •repurchasing junior indebtedness; •making investments; •entering into transactions with affiliates; •merging or consolidating with other entities; and •selling all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions also could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct our business. 13 Additional indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. Under our senior secured credit facility, we are limited in our ability to incur additional debt until we have filed our required periodic reports with the SEC. If and when such restrictions are lifted and we can incur additional debt, increased leverage could, for example: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness; if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness, that failure could result in an event of default of such indebtedness; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •diminish our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could increase. We may be unable to comply with covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility, which could result in the impairment of our working capital and alter our ability to operate our business. We are a party to a $547.25 million senior secured credit facility. To maintain the right to borrow under this credit facility and avoid a default, we are required to maintain certain financial covenant ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, several of which become more restrictive over time and may require us to take action to reduce our debt or take some other action in order to comply with them. Our ability to satisfy required financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet those ratios and tests in the future. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default under our credit agreement. If we default, our lender will no longer be obligated to extend credit to us and could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. The results of such action would have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully execute acquisitions that we make or effectively integrate acquired operations. Our strategy includes acquiring complementary businesses to our domestic operations. In addition, we will also evaluate possible international acquisitions. Any such strategy will involve a number of risks and challenges, including: •our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable terms, documentation and other conditions, and to obtain any necessary regulatory clearances; •our ability to integrate acquired operations; •potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; and •an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. 14 Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of earnings and cash flow from acquisitions or realize other anticipated benefits. Furthermore, competition from other potential buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we otherwise might pay. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile due to, among other factors, the uncertainty associated with the restatement of our prior period financial statements, our ability to become current with respect to our SEC filings, and our ability to relist our common stock on the NYSE. Continued uncertainty or negative developments may cause significant declines in the price of our common stock. Also, factors such as announcements of fluctuations in our or our competitors' operating results and market conditions for oil and gas-related stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future trading prices of our common stock. In particular, the trading price of the common stock of many oilfield service companies has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have at times been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies whose stocks were affected. In addition, the trading prices and value of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in our prospects and operating results, which may in turn be affected by weakness in commodity prices, changes in interest rates and other factors. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have an adverse effect on the trading prices of our common stock. Our bylaws contain provisions that may prevent or delay a change in control. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the Board of Directors to respond to unsolicited attempts to acquire control of the Company. These provisions: •establish a classified Board of Directors, generally providing for three-year staggered terms of office for all members of our Board; •set limitations on the removal of directors; •provide our Board of Directors the ability to set the number of directors and to fill vacancies on the Board occurring between shareholder meetings; and •set limitations on who may call a special meeting of shareholders. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching management and may deprive investors of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. Delayed Financial Reporting-Related Risk Factors The delay in reporting our financial statements and related events has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on us. Because of the delay in completing our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003, and our restatement of prior period financial statements, we have been unable to file our required periodic reports with the SEC for some time. This report is being filed more than four months after it was due. We have not yet filed our quarterly reports for 2005, 2006 and the first two quarters of 2007, and we may be unable to timely file our quarterly report for the third quarter of 2007. As a result of these events, we have become subject to significant risks and occurrences relating to the following matters, which are described in more detail below: •Possible adverse consequences of failure to file past SEC reports; •Limitations on access to public capital markets; 15 •Inability of common stock to trade on a recognized exchange and potential inability to re-list on a recognized exchange; •Impact of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; •Potential changes in tax liabilities; and •Civil litigation. Our inability to file past annual and quarterly reports with the SEC could have adverse consequences. We have not filed, and will be unable to file, annual reports that comply with SEC rules for years prior to 2006. Nor will we be able to file compliant quarterly reports for the first three quarters of 2004 or prior periods. We cannot rule out the possibility of regulatory action by the SEC due to the failure to file these required reports. Any such action could have adverse effects on us, including possible impact on our compliance with lending agreements, on the trading market for our common stock, or on our ability to access the capital markets. We cannot register securities for a public offering or acquisitions until we are current in our financial reporting. We also will be unable to repurchase our common stock until we are current. The securities laws require that we supply current annual and quarterly financial statements in order for us to be able to register securities for a public offering or an acquisition. In order to become current, we must file, in addition to this report, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of 2005 and 2006, respectively. We also must file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2007, which are overdue. Although we should be able to register securities for public offerings and acquisitions after we become current, we will be ineligible to use "short-form" registration that allows us to incorporate by reference our SEC reports into our registration statements, or to use shelf registration until we have filed all of our periodic reports in a timely manner for a period of twelve months. This could increase the costs of selling securities publicly and could significantly delay such sales. We will also be unable to engage in other transactions involving our common stock, including a stock repurchase, until we have become current in our financial disclosures. We cannot be re-listed on a securities exchange until we are current in our financial reporting. Due to our failure to file current financial statements, we became ineligible for listing on a stock exchange, and our common stock has been trading on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service since April 2005. We intend to seek to be re-listed on a securities exchange when we become current in our financial reporting. There can be no assurance whether we will satisfy the standards for listing on an exchange or that the exchange will approve our listing. Nor can there be any assurance at this time when the re-listing would occur. Continuing to be quoted only on Pink Sheets could adversely affect the trading market—and potentially the market price—of our common stock. Taxing authorities may determine that we owe additional taxes from previous years. As a result of the restatement and delay in our financial reporting, we will likely have to amend previously filed tax returns and reports. Where legal, regulatory or administrative rules require or allow us to amend our previous tax filings, we intend to comply with our obligations under applicable law. To the extent that tax authorities do not accept our conclusions about the tax effects of the restatement, liabilities for taxes could differ from those which have been recorded in our consolidated financial statements. If it is determined that we have additional tax liabilities, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 If we are unable to file all financial reports by the dates currently required in our credit facility, we would have to seek a waiver from our lenders. There is no assurance such waiver would be obtained. Our senior secured credit facility, as amended, requires that we file our first and second quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for 2007 no later than October 31, 2007. Although we believe that we will be able to file our 2007 quarterly reports by October 31, 2007, we can make no assurances that will be able to do so. If we cannot meet the filing deadline, we will be required either to seek a waiver from our lenders or refinance the credit facility, or risk an event of default. We can make no assurances that a waiver will be granted by our lenders or about the terms on which it might be granted. If we default, our lenders will no longer be obligated to extend credit to us and could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. The results of such action would have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses, if not corrected, could affect the reliability of our financial statements and have other adverse consequences. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related SEC rules require management of public companies to assess the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting annually and to include in Annual Reports on Form 10-K a management report on that assessment, together with an attestation report by an independent registered public accounting firm. Under Section 404 and the SEC rules, a company cannot find that its internal control over financial reporting is effective if there exist any "material weaknesses" in its financial controls. A "material weakness" is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. We have identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. We have taken and will take actions to remediate the material weaknesses and improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to correct these material weaknesses by the end of 2007. Any failure in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, if it results in misstatements in our financial statements, could have a material effect on financial reporting or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, and could negatively impact investor perceptions. Litigation arising in connection with the restatement of our financial statements could adversely affect our financial condition and operations. The restatement led to litigation. Several securities class action lawsuits and derivative cases are pending against us, members of our Board of Directors and present and former members of management. We have also been named in a lawsuits by our former general counsel and our former chief financial officer. Further, our former controller and assistant controller filed a joint complaint against us. The lawsuits and other legal matters in which we have become involved following the announcement of the restatement are described in Item 3. "Legal Proceedings." Due to our inability to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of options because we have been unable to maintain an effective SEC registration statement for those shares, or to rely on an exemption from registration, some previously granted options that were in-the-money have expired without the optionees being able to exercise them. Although we believe the plan agreements permit our actions taken thus far with respect to stock options, we are defending lawsuits by some option holders and may face lawsuits from other option holders. Other than actions that have been previously settled, we are unable at this time to predict the outcome of pending legal actions. The ultimate resolution of the securities class action lawsuits and 17 derivative cases could have a material adverse impact on our financial results, financial condition or liquidity, and on the trading price of our common stock. These lawsuits and other legal matters also could have a disruptive effect upon the operation of our business and consume the time and attention of our senior management. In addition, we are likely to incur substantial expenses in connection with such matters, including substantial fees for attorneys. We maintain insurance that may provide coverage for some or all of these matters. We have given notice to our insurers of the claims. The insurers have responded by requesting additional information and by reserving their rights under the policies, including the rights to deny coverage under various policy exclusions or to rescind the policies in question as a result of our restatement of our financial statements. There is risk that the insurers will rescind the policies; that some or all of the claims will not be covered by such policies; or that, even if covered, our ultimate liability will exceed the available insurance. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 