Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information set forth in this Report, in connection with any investment decision regarding shares of our common stock. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Some information in this Report may contain “forward-looking” statements that discuss future expectations of our financial condition and results of operation. The risk factors noted in this section and other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, which have been volatile at times, may adversely affect our revenues as well as our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness and obtain additional capital. Our future financial condition, access to capital, cash flow and results of operations depend upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas. We are particularly dependent on prices for natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Factors that affect the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas include: · the level of domestic production; · the availability of imported oil and natural gas; · political and economic conditions and events in foreign oil and natural gas producing nations, including embargoes, continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, and acts of terrorism or sabotage; · the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · the cost and availability of transportation and pipeline systems with adequate capacity; · the cost and availability of other competitive fuels; · fluctuating and seasonal demand for oil, natural gas and refined products; · concerns about global warming or other conservation initiatives and the extent of governmental price controls and regulation of production; · weather; · foreign and domestic government relations; and · overall economic conditions, particularly the recent worldwide economic slowdown which has put downward pressure on oil and natural gas prices and demand. In the past, prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. During fiscal 2010, the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas fluctuated from a high of $6.00 per Mcf to a low of $3.06 per Mcf, while the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil price ranged from a high of $84.29 per Bbl to a low of $64.15 per Bbl. Our revenues, cash flow and profitability and our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital depend substantially upon oil and natural gas prices. 19 Table of Contents We face significant competition, and many of our competitors have resources in excess of our available resources. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter competition from other oil and gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of producing properties and exploratory prospects and sale of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Our competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and numerous independent oil and gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than us. Such companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Exploratory drilling is a speculative activity that may not result in commercially productive reserves and may require expenditures in excess of budgeted amounts. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. There can be no assurance that new wells drilled by us or in which we have an interest will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including economic conditions, mechanical problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages in or delays in the delivery of equipment and services. Such equipment shortages and delays sometimes involve drilling rigs where inclement weather prohibits the movement of land rigs causing a high demand for rigs by a large number of companies during a relatively short period of time. Our future drilling activities may not be successful. Lack of drilling success could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are also subject to all the hazards and risks normally incident to the development, exploitation, production and transportation of, and the exploration for, oil and gas, including unusual or unexpected geologic formations, pressures, down hole fires, mechanical failures, blowouts, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids and pollution and other environmental risks. These hazards could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. We participate in insurance coverage maintained by the operators of our wells, although there can be no assurances that such coverage will be sufficient to prevent a material adverse effect to us if any of the foregoing events occur. We may not identify all risks associated with the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, and any indemnifications we receive from sellers may be insufficient to protect us from such risks, which may result in unexpected liabilities and costs to us. Generally, it is not feasible for us to review in detail every individual property involved in an acquisition. Our business strategy focuses on acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties capable of production. Any future acquisitions will require an assessment of recoverable reserves, title, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental hazards, potential tax and other liabilities and other factors. Ordinarily, our review efforts are focused on the higher-valued properties. Even a detailed review of properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect 20 Table of Contents every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we inspect a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable, may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity, and the financial wherewithal of such seller may constrain the protection provided by such indemnity. We have a history of operating losses and may not be profitable. If we are not able to achieve and maintain profitability in the future, we might not be able to access funds through debt or equity financings. We incurred losses of $(4,936,625) and $(24,762,516) for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our accumulated deficit as of June 30, 2010 was $(54,390,686). Historically, we have funded our operating losses, acquisitions and drilling costs primarily through a combination of private offerings of convertible debt, senior secured debt, and equity securities. We have no assurance that we will be able to obtain an increase in our borrowing base to permit us to access any of the remaining $10,000,000 capacity, under our current Wells Fargo Credit Agreement facility. In the summer of 2012, we must repay or refinance all amounts payable to Wells Fargo under the Credit Agreement. Our success in obtaining the necessary capital resources to fund the repayment to Wells Fargo as well as future costs associated with our operations and drilling plans is dependent upon our ability to: (i) increase revenues through acquisitions and recovery of our proved producing and proved developed non-producing oil and gas reserves; (ii) maintain effective cost controls at the corporate administrative office and in field operations; and (iii) obtain additional financing. However, even if we achieve some success with our plans, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve significant profitable operations or to fund our drilling plans. We have substantial capital requirements necessary for undeveloped properties for which we may not be able to obtain adequate financing. The majority of our oil and gas reserves are undeveloped. At June 30, 2010, we had proved undeveloped reserves of 26,490,670 Mcfe, which represent approximately 91% of our total proved reserves of 29,157,280 Mcfe. Recovery of the Company’s future undeveloped reserves will require significant capital expenditures to further develop these reserves during fiscal 2011 and for the foreseeable future. No assurance can be given that our financing sources will be sufficient to fund our costs for third-party operators’ development activities or that development activities will be either successful or in accordance with our schedule. Additionally, any failure to see increases in natural gas prices or any significant increase in the cost of development could result in a significant reduction in the number of wells drilled and/or reworked. No assurance can be given that any wells will produce oil or gas in commercially profitable quantities. As of June 30, 2010, we had a Drilling Credit balance of $27,219,160 with EXCO to fund the drilling and completion of Company acreage being operated by EXCO. Once this Drilling Credit is exhausted, the Company will be obligated to pay its share of the drilling and completion costs for wells operated by EXCO on our acreage. Further, the Company maintains material leaseholds in units operated by Goodrich, Chesapeake, El Paso and Indigo Minerals and it is expected that the Company will be required to expended significant monies in the near term in order to participate in the drilling and completion of wells operated by these other companies. Development of our properties will require additional capital resources. There can be no assurance that sufficient cash on hand or additional financing (on either favorable or unfavorable terms) will be available, 21 Table of Contents when required, to fund the development. Any inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on us, including requiring us to cease our oil and gas development plans or not being able to maintain our working interest due to failure to pay our share of expenses. Any additional financing may involve substantial dilution to the interests of our shareholders at that time. We are subject to uncertainties in reserve estimates and future net cash flows. This Report contains estimates of our oil and gas reserves and the expected future net cash flows from those reserves, most of which have been prepared by an independent petroleum consultant. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of oil and gas and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve estimates in this report are based on various assumptions, including, for example, constant oil and gas prices, operating expenses, capital expenditures and the availability of funds, and, therefore, are inherently imprecise indications of future net cash flows. Actual future production, cash flows, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves set forth in this report. Additionally, our reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon actual production performance, results of future development and exploration, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net reserves discounted at 10% (the “PV-10”) of proved reserves referred to in this report should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated proved reserves of oil and gas attributable to our properties. In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on an average price of the first day of each month of the last 12 months and a differential of the price per Mcf received by the Company, and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by: (i) the timing of both production and related expenses; (ii) changes in consumption levels; and (iii) governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the calculation of the present value of the future net cash flows using a 10% discount as required by the SEC is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the oil and gas industry in general. Furthermore, our reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon actual production, results of future development, supply and demand for oil and gas, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. See “Item 1. Business — Oil and Gas Reserves.” We are subject to various operating and other casualty risks that could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues. Our oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including, but not limited to, unexpected formations or pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination), blowouts, fires, explosions, pollution and other risks, any of which could result in personal injuries, loss of life, damage to properties and substantial losses. Although we carry insurance at levels that we believe are reasonable, we are not fully insured against all risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. From time to time, due primarily to contract terms, pipeline interruptions or weather conditions, the producing wells in which we own an interest have been subject to production curtailments. The curtailments range from production being partially restricted to wells being completely shut-in. The duration of curtailments varies from a few days to several months. In most cases, we are provided only limited notice as to when production will be curtailed and the duration of such curtailments. We are not currently experiencing any material curtailment of our production. 22 Table of Contents We cannot control the development of the properties we own but do not operate, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. As of June 30, 2010, third parties operate wells that represent almost all of our proved reserves. As a result, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on those properties depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: · the timing and amount of capital expenditures; · the operators’ expertise and financial resources; · the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and · the selection of suitable technology. If drilling and development activities are not conducted on these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. New SEC and GAAP reserve reporting requirements may affect the results of our reserve estimates and could change our relative positioning in the industry with regard to reserve estimates. On December 31, 2008, the SEC issued Release No. 33-8995, “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting” amending and expanding its disclosure requirements for oil and natural gas producing companies. The new rules and disclosure requirements are effective as of December 31, 2009. On January 16, 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted rules conforming GAAP to the new SEC definitions and rules. These changes are the first major modifications to the accounting-based reserve reporting requirements since 1982. Among other things, the new SEC rules modify various definitions impacting categories of oil and natural gas reserves and replace the previous pricing mechanism of using the last day of our fiscal year by using an average price mechanism based on the first day of each of the last twelve months for purposes of computing reserve quantities as of December 31, 2009 and subsequent periods. In addition, these new requirements not only require oil and gas companies to report proved reserves, but also permit voluntary disclosure of ‘probable’ and ‘possible’ reserves. While the new rules are intended to provide investors with a more complete picture of the reserves of reporting companies, and were made with an eye towards continuing to recognize new technologies and knowledge about the geology and extent of oil and natural gas fields, these changes will potentially affect the results of our reserve estimates and application of these new reserve reporting rules by competitors may change our relative positioning in the industry as a whole with regards to reserve estimates. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. We depend to a large extent on the services of Calvin A. Wallen, III, our President, Chairman of the Board, and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Wallen would have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have not obtained key personnel life insurance on Mr. Wallen. Certain of our affiliates control a majority of our outstanding common stock, which may affect other shareholders’ ability to influence matters submitted to a vote of shareholders. As of September 8, 2010, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates and certain 5% shareholders hold approximately 57.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, officers, directors and their affiliates and such shareholders have the ability to exert significant influence or control over our business affairs, including the ability to control the election of directors and results of voting on all matters requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of voting power may delay or prevent a potential change in control. 23 Table of Contents Certain of our affiliates have engaged in business transactions with the Company, which may result in conflicts of interest. Certain officers, directors and related parties, including entities controlled by Mr. Wallen, the President, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, have engaged in business transactions with the Company which were not the result of arm’s length negotiations between independent parties. Our management believes that the terms of these transactions were as favorable to us as those that could have been obtained from unaffiliated parties under similar circumstances. All future transactions between us and our affiliates will be on terms no less favorable than could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties and will be approved by a majority of the disinterested members of our Board of Directors. The liquidity, market price and volume of our stock are volatile, and our stock is subject to certain penny stock rules. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE Amex, LLC (the “AMEX”). The liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected, and purchasers of our common stock may have difficulty selling our common stock, if our common stock does not continue to trade in that or another suitable trading market. As of September 8, 2010, the trading price of our common stock was below $1.00 per share. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, announcements of our drilling results and other events or factors. In addition, the U.S. stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our securities. We may experience adverse consequences because of required indemnification of officers and directors. Provisions of our Certificate of Formation and Bylaws provide that we will indemnify any director and officer as to liabilities incurred in their capacity as a director or officer and on those terms and conditions set forth therein to the fullest extent of Texas law. Further, we may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any such persons whether or not we would have the power to indemnify such person against the liability insured against. The foregoing could result in substantial expenditures by us and prevent any recovery from our officers, directors, agents and employees for losses incurred by us as a result of their actions. Certain anti-takeover provisions may discourage a change in control. Provisions of Texas law and our Certificate of Formation and Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or acquisition of the Company. Our Certificate of Formation and Bylaws include “blank check” preferred stock (the terms of which may be fixed by our Board of Directors without shareholder approval), and certain procedural requirements governing shareholder meetings. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. We do not intend to declare cash dividends on Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors presently intends to retain all of our earnings for the repayment of debt and the expansion of our business. We therefore do not anticipate the distribution of cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future decision of our Board of Directors to pay cash dividends will depend, among other factors, upon our earnings, financial position and cash requirements. 24 Table of Contents Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, which we collectively refer to as Section 404, require us to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on those internal controls as of the end of each year. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. In the course of our Section 404 evaluations, we may identify conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses and we may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. Implementing any such matters would divert the attention of our management, could involve significant costs, and may negatively impact our results of operations. We note that there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, as they cannot prevent collusion, management override or failure of human judgment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations, result in a loss of investor confidence and negatively impact our share price. We may not have satisfactory title or rights to our properties. Our contract land professionals have reviewed title records or other title review materials relating to substantially all of our producing properties. The title investigation performed by us prior to acquiring undeveloped properties is thorough, but less rigorous than that conducted prior to drilling, consistent with industry standards. A title opinion obtained on the drill site prior to drilling does not necessarily ensure satisfactory title. We believe we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. At June 30, 2010, our leaseholds for some of our net acreage were being kept in force by virtue of production. The majority of our acreage is in Northwest Louisiana and the climate in Northwest Louisiana has become increasingly hostile and litigious towards oil and gas companies. Mineral owners are looking for opportunities to make additional money from their minerals and/or cause leases to expire. In the normal course of our business, title defects and lease issues of varying degrees will arise, and, if practicable, reasonable efforts will be made to cure any such defects and issues. The Company may make acquisitions of oil and gas properties from time to time subject to available resources. In making an acquisition, we generally focus most of our title and valuation efforts on the more significant properties. It is generally not feasible for us to perform an in-depth review of every property we purchase and all records with respect to such properties. However, even an in-depth review of properties and records may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. To the extent the seller does not operate the properties, obtaining access to properties and records may be more difficult. Even when problems are identified, the seller may not be willing or financially able to give contractual protection against such problems, and we may decide to assume environmental and other liabilities in connection with acquired properties. Governmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas, and environmental and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of our operations. 25 Table of Contents In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues. Laws and regulations relating to our business frequently change, and future laws and regulations, including changes to existing laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business. In particular and without limiting the foregoing, various tax proposals currently under consideration could result in an increase and acceleration of the payment of federal income taxes assessed against independent oil and natural gas producers, for example by eliminating the ability to expense intangible drilling costs, removing the percentage depletion allowance and increasing the amortization period for geological and geophysical expenses. Any of these changes would increase our tax burden. The States of Texas and Louisiana and many other states require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations and impose other requirements relating to the exploration for and production of oil and gas. Such states also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. The statutes and regulations of these states limit the rate at which oil and gas can be produced from our properties. However, we do not believe we will be affected materially differently by these statutes and regulations than any other similarly situated oil and gas company. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our business. In the event of a release of oil, natural gas or other pollutants from our operations into the environment, we could incur liability for any and all consequences of such release, including personal injuries, property damage, cleanup costs and governmental fines. We could potentially discharge these materials into the environment in several ways, including: · from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; · leakage from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities and storage tanks; · damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and · blowouts, cratering and explosions. In addition, because we may acquire interests in properties that have been operated in the past by others, we may be liable for environmental damage, including historical contamination, caused by such former operators. Additional liabilities could also arise from continuing violations or contamination that we have not yet discovered relating to the acquired properties or any of our other properties. To the extent we incur any environmental liabilities, it could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Climate change legislation, regulation and litigation could materially adversely affect us. There is an increased focus by local, state and national regulatory bodies on greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions and climate change. Various regulatory bodies have announced their intent to regulate GHG emissions, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency, which promulgated several GHG regulations in 2010 and late 2009. As these regulations are under development or are being challenged in the courts, we are unable to predict the total impact of these potential regulations upon our business, and it is possible that we could face increases in operating costs in order to comply with GHG emission legislation. Passage of legislation or regulations that regulate or restrict emissions of GHG, or GHG-related litigation instituted against us or our customers, could result in direct costs to us and could also result in changes to the 26 Table of Contents consumption and demand for natural gas and carbon dioxide produced from our oil and natural gas properties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. Horizontal drilling activities could be subject to increased regulation and could expose us to environmental risks that could adversely affect us. Legislation relating to horizontal drilling activities that could impose new permitting disclosure or other environmental restrictions or obligations on our operations is currently being considered at the federal level, and may in the future be considered at the state or local level. In particular, the U.S. Congress recently signaled a renewed interest in certain downhole injection activities, some of which we utilize in our operations. The focus may lead to new legislation or regulations that could affect our operations. Any additional requirements or restrictions on our operations could result in delays, increased operating costs or a requirement to change or eliminate certain drilling and injection activities in a manner that may materially adversely affect us. In addition, because horizontal drilling involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production, it is also possible that our drilling and injection operations could adversely affect the environment, which could result in a requirement to perform investigations or clean-ups or in the incurrence of other unexpected material costs or liabilities. We may be responsible for additional costs in connection with abandonment of properties. We are responsible for payment of plugging and abandonment costs on our oil and gas properties pro rata to our working interest. Based on our experience, we anticipate that the ultimate aggregate salvage value of lease and well equipment located on our properties will exceed the costs of abandoning such properties. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in avoiding additional expenses in connection with the abandonment of any of our properties. In addition, abandonment costs and their timing may change due to many factors, including actual production results, inflation rates and changes in environmental laws and regulations. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 