Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information set forth in this Report, in connection with any investment decision regarding shares of our Common Stock. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our Common Stock. Some information in this Report may contain “forward-looking” statements that discuss future expectations of our financial condition and results of operation. The risk factors noted in this section and other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Our ability to continue operations is dependent on our ability to work with our lenders and identify an acceptable Strategic Transaction. As of June 30, 2014, we had cash in the amount of $6,857,970 and total liabilities in the amount of $126,654,909. We also had a working capital deficit of $72,997,802 and an accumulated deficit of $78,052,931. Additionally, we are currently subject to a forbearance agreement in relation to the Note Purchase Agreement which requires us to, among others, enter into a definitive agreement with respect to a Strategic Transaction by October 17, 2014. The holders of the Notes have the ability to require the terms of the Strategic Transaction to permit us to repay all amounts owing to the holders of the Notes. We continue to explore alternatives with respect to a Strategic Transaction, although we did not enter into a definitive agreement by October 17, 2014. We are in discussions with the holders of the Notes with respect to available alternatives. Unless the requirement regarding a Strategic Transaction is waived, or we obtain an extension of time, the holders of the Notes could declare a default under the Note Purchase Agreement, accelerate the indebtedness represented by the Notes and exercise all other remedies available to them, including foreclosing on our assets. We believe we have complied with the other terms of the forbearance agreement; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in consummating a Strategic Transaction within the mandated time period. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash. On October 2, 2013, we entered into the Note Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which we initially issued an aggregate of $66,000,000 of Notes. In addition, our prior debt of approximately $21,000,000 to WFEC was renegotiated and assumed by one of our subsidiaries. As of June 30, 2014, after giving effect to the issuance of additional debt to pay interest thereon, there is an aggregate principal amount of approximately $68,834,798 of Notes, and the aggregate indebtedness to WFEC is approximately $24,880,936. As a result of the Amendment to the Note Purchase Agreement, we are required to enter into a definitive agreement with respect to a Strategic Transaction by October 17, 2014, which we have not done. In addition, the Amendment provides that the interest rate applicable to the Notes is increased to 20.5%. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our ability to develop our Leon and Robertson Counties, Texas assets and our Louisiana assets, generate cash flows from those assets and collect amounts owed to us by our third-party operators. We continue to explore alternatives with respect to a Strategic Transaction, although we did not enter into a definitive agreement by October 17, 2014. No assurances can be given that we will be able to complete a Strategic Transaction within the time period required by the Amendment, or at all. Our acquisition of assets from Gastar, Navasota and Tauren presents certain risks to our business and operations. In October 2013, we consummated the acquisition of certain assets from Gastar, Navasota and Tauren. The acquisitions present numerous risks, including the following: · The possibility that the expected benefits of such transaction may not materialize in the timeframe expected, or at all, or may be more costly to achieve than anticipated; 26 Table of Contents · The increase in our indebtedness that has resulted from entering into financing for the acquisitions; · That the acquired assets may not produce as expected; · That we are unable to successfully develop the assets; · Risks associated with the ownership and operation of the acquired assets, which differ from those that we previously held, in that the acquired assets in East Texas are primarily oil producing, while our legacy assets are primarily gas producing; · The integration of these transactions may require diversion of the attention of our management and other key employees from ongoing business activities, including the pursuit of other opportunities that could be beneficial to us; and · That we have incurred substantial costs in connection with these transactions. One or more of these factors could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our common stockholders may experience dilution due to the exercise of warrants to purchase Common Stock. As part of the transactions consummated in October 2013, we issued warrants exercisable into an aggregate of 65,834,549 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share, and warrants exercisable into an aggregate of 32,917,274 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.50 per share. As a result of the issuance of these warrants, the exercise price of warrants held by WFEC, which are exercisable into an aggregate of 8,500,000 shares of Common Stock, was adjusted to $0.1753 per share. The issuance of additional shares of Common Stock upon exercise of any of these warrants would result in dilution to existing holders of Common Stock. In addition, the issuance of additional warrants or other securities convertible into Common Stock could result in the dilution of existing stockholder’s equity interests. The issuance of additional shares of Common Stock or warrants or other securities convertible into Common Stock could also trigger additional anti-dilution adjustments in the exercise price of outstanding warrants and other securities convertible into Common Stock. Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, which have been volatile at times, may adversely affect our revenues as well as our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness and obtain additional capital. Our future financial condition, access to capital, cash flows and results of operations depend upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas. Historically, we have been particularly dependent on prices for natural gas, but as a result of the acquisition of our properties in Leon and Robertson Counties, Texas, we have become increasingly dependent on prices for oil. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Factors that affect the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas include: · The level of domestic production; · The availability of imported oil and natural gas; · Political and economic conditions and events in foreign oil and natural gas producing nations, including embargoes, continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, and acts of terrorism or sabotage; · The ability of members of OPEC to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; 27 Table of Contents · The cost and availability of transportation and pipeline systems with adequate capacity; · The cost and availability of other competitive fuels; · Fluctuating and seasonal demand for oil, natural gas and refined products; · Concerns about global warming or other conservation initiatives and the extent of governmental price controls and regulation of production; · Weather; · Foreign and domestic government relations; and · Overall economic conditions, particularly the recent worldwide economic slowdown which has put downward pressure on oil and natural gas prices and demand. In the past, prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. During fiscal 2014, the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas fluctuated from a high of $7.90 per Mcf to a low of $3.27 per Mcf, while the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil price ranged from a high of $110.62 per Bbl to a low of $91.36 per Bbl. Our revenues, cash flow and profitability and our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital depend substantially upon oil and natural gas prices. We face significant competition, and many of our competitors have resources in excess of our available resources. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter competition from other oil and gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of producing properties and exploratory prospects and sale of crude oil, natural gas and NGL. Our competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and numerous independent oil and gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than us. Such companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Exploratory drilling is a speculative activity that may not result in commercially productive reserves and may require expenditures in excess of budgeted amounts. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. There can be no assurance that new wells drilled by us or in which we have an interest will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including economic conditions, mechanical problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages in or delays in the delivery of equipment and services. Such equipment shortages and delays sometimes involve drilling rigs where inclement weather prohibits the movement of land rigs causing a high demand for rigs by a large number of companies during a 28 Table of Contents relatively short period of time. Our future drilling activities may not be successful. Lack of drilling success could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are also subject to all of the hazards and risks normally incident to the development, exploitation, production and transportation of, and the exploration for, oil and gas, including unusual or unexpected geologic formations, pressures, down hole fires, mechanical failures, blowouts, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids and pollution and other environmental risks. These hazards could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. We participate in insurance coverage maintained by the operators of our wells, although there can be no assurances that such coverage will be sufficient to prevent a material adverse effect to us if any of the foregoing events occur. Acquisition prospects are difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our operations. Where appropriate, we may evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities on terms our management considers favorable. The successful acquisition of natural gas and oil properties requires an assessment of: · Recoverable reserves; · Exploration potential; · Future natural gas and oil prices; · Operating costs; · Potential environmental and other liabilities; and · Permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations. In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting conclusions are inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain and such an assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every facility or well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Future acquisitions could pose additional risks to our operations and financial results, including: · Problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies; · Unanticipated costs; · Diversion of resources and management attention from our exploration business; · Entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and · Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization. We have a history of losses from operations and may not achieve profitable operations. If we are not able to achieve and maintain profitable operations in the future, we might not be able to access funds through debt or equity financings. We had losses from operations of $7,527,465 for fiscal 2014 and $3,609,972 for fiscal 2013. Our accumulated deficit as of June 30, 2014 was $78,052,931. 29 Table of Contents Historically, we have funded our operating losses, acquisitions and drilling costs primarily through a combination of private offerings of convertible debt, senior secured debt, and equity securities. We must repay or refinance all amounts payable under the Note Purchase Agreement and to WFEC. Our success in obtaining the necessary capital resources to fund the repayment under the Note Purchase Agreement, the Credit Agreement with WFEC as well as future costs associated with our operations and drilling plans is dependent upon our ability to: (i) increase revenues through acquisitions and recovery of our proved producing and proved developed non-producing oil and gas reserves; (ii) maintain effective cost controls at the corporate administrative office and in field operations; and (iii) obtain additional financing. However, even if we achieve some success with our plans, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve significant profitable operations or to fund our drilling plans. We have substantial capital requirements necessary for undeveloped properties for which we may not be able to obtain adequate financing. At June 30, 2014, a significant portion of our proved oil and gas reserves were undeveloped. At June 30, 2014, we had total proved undeveloped reserves of 44,346 MMcfe, which represented approximately 34% of our total proved reserves of 135,071 MMcfe. Recovery of our future undeveloped reserves will require significant capital expenditures to further develop these reserves for the foreseeable future. In addition to our results of operations, our derivative sales contracts can potentially affect cash flow negatively, if prices for natural gas or oil exceed their respective strike prices. Pursuant to the derivative sales contracts, we are required to pay to the counterparty the difference between the strike price and actual sales price for volumes subject to the respective contract, to the extent the actual sales price exceeds the strike price. If our capital resources are utilized for that purpose, we would have fewer capital resources available for development of our undeveloped properties. No assurance can be given that our financing sources will be sufficient to fund our costs for third-party operators’ development activities or that development activities will be either successful or in accordance with our schedule. Additionally, if natural gas prices do not increase or if our costs of development significantly increase, we could experience a significant reduction in the number of gas wells drilled and/or reworked. No assurance can be given that any wells will produce oil or gas in commercially profitable quantities. Development of our properties could require capital resources in addition to amounts available to us. There can be no assurance that sufficient cash on hand or additional financing (on either favorable or unfavorable terms) will be available, when required, to fund the development. In the event of product price increases resulting in payments by us under the derivative sales contracts, no assurances can be given that we will have increases in oil and/or gas production in excess of the notional amounts of oil and/or gas specified in our derivative sales contracts. Any inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on us, including requiring us to cease our oil and gas development plans or not being able to maintain our working interest due to failure to pay our share of expenses. Any additional financing may involve substantial dilution to the interests of our stockholders at that time. Our natural gas and oil sales and our related hedging activities expose us to potential regulatory risks. The Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”), and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of natural gas and oil and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent that we enter into transportation contracts with natural gas pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation, we are subject to FERC requirements related to use of such capacity. Any failure on our part to 30 Table of Contents comply with the FERC’s regulations and policies, or with an interstate pipeline’s tariff, could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. We could incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to contamination that occurs as a result of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations or in operations in which we own a working interest as a result of the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to operations, and due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to strict, joint and several liabilities for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells or the wells in which we own a working interest are drilled and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or natural resource damages. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly well drilling, construction, completion or water management activities, or waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Technological changes could affect our operations. The natural gas and oil industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services utilizing new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement such new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, many other natural gas and oil companies have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may be unable to respond to such competitive pressures and implement such technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies that we currently use or may implement in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. We are subject to uncertainties in reserve estimates and future net cash flows. This report contains estimates of our oil and gas reserves as of June 30, 2014 and the expected future net cash flows from those reserves, most of which have been prepared by an independent petroleum consultant. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of oil and gas and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve estimates in this report are based on various assumptions, including, for example, constant oil and gas prices, operating expenses, capital expenditures and the availability of funds, and, therefore, are inherently imprecise indications of future net cash flows. Actual future production, cash flows, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves set forth in this report. Additionally, our reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon actual production performance, results of future development and exploration, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net reserves discounted at 10% (the “PV-10”) of proved reserves referred to in this report should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated proved reserves of oil and gas attributable to our properties. In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on an average price as of the first day of 31 Table of Contents each month during the applicable 12 months. For oil volumes, the average West Texas Intermediate posted price of $96.75 per barrel is adjusted by field for quality, transportation fees, and a regional price differential. For gas volumes, the average Henry Hub spot price of $4.10 per MMBTU is adjusted by field for energy content, transportation fees, and a regional price differential. All prices are held constant throughout the lives of the properties. For the proved reserves, the average adjusted product prices weighted by production over the remaining lives of the properties are $97.51 per barrel of oil, $47.66 per barrel of NGL, and $4.01 per Mcf of gas. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by: (i) the timing of both production and related expenses; (ii) changes in consumption levels; and (iii) governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the calculation of the present value of the future net cash flows using a 10% discount as required by the SEC is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the oil and gas industry in general. Derivatives contracts on our production may result in losses or prevent us from benefiting to the fullest extent possible from increases in prices for natural gas and oil. In October 2013, we entered into New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) futures contracts as derivatives on natural gas production and crude oil production, in the form of a Call Option Structured Derivative with a third party. This derivative limits our ability to benefit from increases in the prices of natural gas and oil. If the counterparties to the derivative instruments we use to mitigate our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In October 2013, we began to use derivatives to mitigate our natural gas and oil price risk with counterparties. This is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. We cannot provide assurance that our counterparties will honor their obligations now or in the future. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Colombia in September 2012. In response, the CFTC adopted rules and dismissed its appeal of the District Court’s decision. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap”, “security-based swap”, “swap dealer” and “major swap participant”. The Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules also may require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition, new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result, it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. The Dodd-Frank Act also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral 32 Table of Contents which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. We are subject to various operating and other casualty risks that could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues. Our oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including, but not limited to, unexpected formations or pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination), blowouts, fires, explosions, pollution and other risks, any of which could result in personal injuries, loss of life, damage to properties and substantial losses. Although we carry insurance at levels that we believe are reasonable, we are not fully insured against all risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. From time to time, due primarily to contract terms, pipeline interruptions or weather conditions, the producing wells in which we own an interest have been subject to production curtailments. The curtailments range from production being partially restricted to wells being completely shut-in. The duration of curtailments varies from a few days to several months. In most cases, we are provided only limited notice as to when production will be curtailed and the duration of such curtailments. We cannot control the development of the properties we own but do not operate, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. As of June 30, 2014, non-affiliated third parties operated wells that represented approximately 34% of our total proved reserves as of that date. As a result, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on those properties depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: · the timing and amount of capital expenditures; · the operators’ expertise and financial resources; · the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and · the selection of suitable technology. If drilling and development activities are not conducted on our properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. We depend to a large extent on the services of Calvin A. Wallen, III, our President, Chairman of the Board, and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Wallen would have a material adverse effect on our operations. 33 Table of Contents Certain of our affiliates control a majority of the voting power of our securities, which may affect other stockholders’ ability to influence matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. As of November 4, 2014, Mr. Wallen and the Investors, collectively, control over 70% of the voting power with respect to matters submitted to the holders of the Common Stock. As a result, they have the ability to control much of our business affairs, including the ability to control the election of directors and results of voting on all matters requiring stockholder approval. The Investors and Mr. Wallen can effectively prevent a change of control of the Company and determine the outcome of all matters submitted to the Company’s shareholders. Certain of our affiliates have engaged in business transactions with us, which may result in conflicts of interest. Certain officers, directors and related parties, including entities controlled by Mr. Wallen, have engaged in business transactions with us which were not the result of arm’s length negotiations between independent parties. Our management believes that the terms of these transactions were as favorable to us as those that could have been obtained from unaffiliated parties under similar circumstances. All future transactions between us and our affiliates will be on terms no less favorable than could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties and will be approved by a majority of the independent members of our Board of Directors. The liquidity, market price and volume of our stock are volatile. The trading price of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, announcements of our drilling results and other events or factors. In addition, the U.S. stock markets have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our securities. Currently, our Common Stock is traded on the OTCQB, the mid-tier on the OTC Markets, which is not a nationally recognized exchange. We may experience adverse consequences because of required indemnification of officers and directors. Provisions of our Certificate of Formation and Bylaws provide that we will indemnify any director and officer as to liabilities incurred in their capacity as a director or officer and on those terms and conditions set forth therein to the fullest extent of Texas law. Further, we may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any such persons whether or not we would have the power to indemnify such person against the liability insured against. The foregoing could result in substantial expenditures by us and prevent any recovery from our officers, directors, agents and employees for losses incurred by us as a result of their actions. Certain anti-takeover provisions may discourage a change in control. Provisions of Texas law and our Certificate of Formation and Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or acquisition of the Company. Our Certificate of Formation and Bylaws include “blank check” preferred stock (the terms of which may be fixed by our Board of Directors without stockholder approval), and certain procedural requirements governing stockholder meetings. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. As a result of the Voting Agreement, the Investors and Mr. Wallen control all votes of shareholders, and can effectively prevent a change of control. We do not intend to declare cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors presently intends to retain all of our earnings, if any, for the repayment of debt, the payment of dividends on our preferred stock and the expansion of our business. We therefore do not anticipate the distribution of cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Any future 34 Table of Contents decision of our Board of Directors to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock will depend, among other factors, upon our earnings, financial position and cash requirements. Our internal controls over financial reporting were deemed not effective, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, which we collectively refer to as “Section 404,” require us to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on those internal controls as of the end of each year. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. In the course of our Section 404 evaluations, we may identify conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses and we may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. Implementing any such matters would divert the attention of our management, could involve significant costs, and may negatively impact our results of operations. In September and October 2014, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with our (i) financial reporting and disclosure process (ii) accounting for asset retirement obligations and (iii) accounting for certain complex accounting transactions. The first material weakness, our financial reporting and disclosure process, resulted in additional disclosures and amendments to our quarterly reports for the quarterly periods ended September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014 necessary to present the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The second material weakness, accounting for asset retirement obligations (ARO), resulted in our inappropriate estimation of the ARO related to the properties acquired in our acquisitions in fiscal 2014. Our third material weakness, our accounting for certain complex accounting transactions, resulted in an incorrect accounting treatment related to the warrants that were issued together with the Notes. The warrants contained ‘full-ratchet’ anti-dilution adjustment provisions that were not properly accounted for. Additionally, certain warrants that were re-priced in 2013 and 2014 also contained certain anti-dilution provisions that were not accounted for correctly since their issuance date. Finally, we did not apply the proper accounting for the exchanges of certain related party debt and equity instruments in transactions that were deemed equity contributions. As a result of these material weaknesses, the Company will amend its September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014 Forms 10-Q. We note that there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, as they cannot prevent collusion, management override or failure of human judgment. If we fail to remediate the foregoing material weaknesses or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover additional material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations, result in a loss of investor confidence and negatively impact our share price. We may not have satisfactory title or rights to all of our current or future properties. Prior to acquiring undeveloped properties, our contract land professionals review title records or other title review materials relating to substantially all of such properties. The title investigation performed by us prior to acquiring undeveloped properties is thorough, but less rigorous than that conducted prior to drilling, consistent with industry standards. Prior to drilling, we obtain a title opinion on the drill site. However, a title opinion does not necessarily ensure satisfactory title. We believe we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. In the normal course of our business, title defects and lease issues of varying degrees arise, and, if practicable, reasonable efforts are made to cure such defects and issues. At June 30, 2014, we believe that our leaseholds for all of our net acreage in Louisiana were being kept in force by virtue of production in paying quantities, and 40% of our leaseholds in Leon and Robertson Counties, Texas are in force by virtue of production in paying quantities. The legal climate in Northwest Louisiana and Texas has become increasingly hostile and litigious towards oil and gas companies. Many mineral owners are seeking opportunities to make additional money from their minerals rights, including pursuit of claims of lease expiration by asserting that production does not exist in paying quantities. We are a defendant in a lawsuit brought by a mineral owner in Northwest Louisiana alleging, among other things, that 35 Table of Contents all or part of our mineral lease lapsed. If the outcome of this lawsuit were to be determined entirely in favor of the mineral owner, our total acreage position, as of June 30, 2014, could decrease by a maximum of 4%. We are vigorously defending our position in this lawsuit. Governmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas, and environmental and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of our operations. In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues. Laws and regulations relating to our business frequently change, and future laws and regulations, including changes to existing laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business. In particular and without limiting the foregoing, various tax proposals currently under consideration could result in an increase and acceleration of the payment of federal income taxes assessed against independent oil and natural gas producers, for example by eliminating the ability to expense intangible drilling costs, removing the percentage depletion allowance and increasing the amortization period for geological and geophysical expenses. Any of these changes would increase our tax burden. The States of Texas and Louisiana and many other states require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations and impose other requirements relating to the exploration for and production of oil and gas. Such states also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. The statutes and regulations of these states limit the rate at which oil and gas can be produced from our properties. However, we do not believe we will be affected materially differently by these statutes and regulations than any other similarly situated oil and gas company. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our business. In the event of a release of oil, natural gas or other pollutants from our operations into the environment, we could incur liability for any and all consequences of such release, including personal injuries, property damage, cleanup costs and governmental fines. We could potentially discharge these materials into the environment in several ways, including: · from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; · leakage from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities and storage tanks; · damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and · blowouts, cratering and explosions. In addition, because we may acquire interests in properties that have been operated in the past by others, we may be liable for environmental damage, including historical contamination, caused by such former operators. Additional liabilities could also arise from continuing violations or contamination that we have not yet discovered relating to the acquired properties or any of our other properties. To the extent we incur any environmental liabilities, it could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 36 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations including the acquisition of permits, including drilling permits, before conducting regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to strict, joint and several liabilities for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells are drilled and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or natural resource damages. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently; for example, a number of state and regional legal initiatives have emerged in recent years that seek to reduce GHG emissions and the EPA, based on its findings that emissions of GHGs present a danger to public health and the environment, has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, restrict emissions of GHGs and require the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which includes certain of our operations. Any changes in legal requirements that restrict emissions or releases of GHGs or other pollutants or result in more stringent or costly well drilling, construction, completion or water management activities, or waste control, handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance, may reduce demand for the oil and gas we produce and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Horizontal drilling activities could be subject to increased regulation and could expose us to environmental risks that could adversely affect us. Legislation relating to horizontal drilling activities that could impose new permitting disclosure or other environmental restrictions or obligations on our operations is currently being considered at the federal level, and may in the future be considered at the state or local level. In particular, the U.S. Congress recently signaled a renewed interest in certain downhole injection activities, some of which we utilize in our operations. The focus may lead to new legislation or regulations that could affect our operations. Any additional requirements or restrictions on our operations could result in delays, increased operating costs or a requirement to change or eliminate certain drilling and injection activities in a manner that may materially adversely affect us. In addition, because horizontal drilling involves fracture stimulation through the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production, it is also possible that our drilling and the fracturing process could adversely affect the environment, which could result in a requirement to perform investigations or clean-ups or in the incurrence of other unexpected material costs or liabilities. 37 Table of Contents We may be responsible for additional costs in connection with abandonment of properties. We are responsible for payment of plugging and abandonment costs on our oil and gas properties pro rata to our working interest. Based on our experience, we anticipate that the ultimate aggregate salvage value of lease and well equipment located on our properties will exceed the costs of abandoning such properties. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in avoiding additional expenses in connection with the abandonment of any of our properties. In addition, abandonment costs and their timing may change due to many factors, including actual production results, inflation rates and changes in environmental laws and regulations. Our stock is categorized as a penny stock. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. Our stock is categorized as a “penny stock”. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our Common Stock. FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules described above, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our Common Stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 