Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information set forth in this Report, before investing in shares of our common stock. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Some information in this Report may contain “forward-looking” statements that discuss future expectations of our financial condition and results of operation. The risk factors noted in this section and other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. We face significant competition, and many of our competitors have resources in excess of our available resources. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter competition from other oil and gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of producing properties and sale of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Our competitors include major integrated oil and gas companies and numerous independent oil and gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than us. Such companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. We face increased competition for available drilling rigs and other oilfield equipment and services, which could increase our costs, cause our drilling program to be delayed or cause our leases to lapse. Recent increased oil and natural gas drilling activity in East Texas and Northwest Louisiana has resulted in increased demand for drilling rigs and other oilfield equipment and services. At various times, we have and may continue to experience temporary or prolonged shortages or unavailability of drilling rigs, drill pipe and other material used in oil and gas drilling and completing. Such unavailability could result in increased costs, delays in timing of anticipated development or cause interests in undeveloped oil and natural gas leases to lapse. Exploratory drilling is a speculative activity that may not result in commercially productive reserves and may require expenditures in excess of budgeted amounts. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. There can be no assurance that new wells drilled by us will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including economic conditions, mechanical problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages in or delays in the delivery of equipment and services. Such equipment shortages and delays sometimes involve drilling rigs where inclement weather prohibits the movement of land rigs causing a high demand for rigs by a large number of companies during a relatively short period of time. Our future drilling activities may not be successful. Lack of drilling success could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are also subject to all the hazards and risks normally incident to the development, exploitation, production and transportation of, and the exploration for, oil and gas, including unusual or unexpected geologic 16 Table of Contents formations, pressures, down hole fires, mechanical failures, blowouts, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids and pollution and other environmental risks. These hazards could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. We participate in insurance coverage maintained by the operator of our wells, although there can be no assurances that such coverage will be sufficient to prevent a material adverse effect to us if any of the foregoing events occur. We are in a capital-intensive business and we will need additional funds. Our business is highly capital-intensive requiring continuous development and acquisition of oil and gas reserves. In addition, capital is required to operate and expand our oil and gas field operations, purchase equipment and to fund our drilling program. At June 30, 2008, we had working capital of $1,746,741. On March 5, 2007, Cubic entered into the aforementioned Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo providing for the $20,000,000 Revolving Note and the Term Loan of $5,000,000 in order to fund the drilling of new wells. On May 6, 2008, the Company issued the aforementioned $2,000,000 Subordinated Note to Diversified Dynamics Corporation. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2008, on August 20, 2008, the Company increased its borrowings under the Revolving Note from $16,827,800 at June 30, 2008 to the full amount of the borrowing base of $20,000,000. As a result, the Company has no additional availability under the aforementioned Credit Facility. In addition, the entire principal amount of the Subordinated Note was funded at the time of its issuance, and no additional borrowings are provided thereunder. Therefore, the Company’s capital requirements must be satisfied through operations, additional borrowings under new or renegotiated credit arrangements, or the issuance of equity securities. There can be no assurance that any of these sources of capital will be available or sufficient to satisfy the Company’s capital requirements. We have experienced and will continue to experience significant capital expenditures and working capital requirements, principally as a result of our drilling program. We expect that we will require additional financing, in addition to cash generated from operations, to fund our expected growth. There can be no assurance, however, that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. In the event that additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Additionally, failure to drill on certain of our leasehold interests could result in the forfeiture of our interest. Any future issuances of equity securities would likely result in dilution to our then existing shareholders while incurring additional indebtedness would result in increased interest expense and debt service charges. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We have a history of operating losses and may not be profitable in the future. We incurred losses before income tax provisions of $(5,128,453) and $(5,800,774) for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our accumulated deficit as of June 30, 2008 was $(24,451,145). Historically, we have funded our operating losses, acquisitions and drilling costs primarily through a combination of private offerings of convertible debt, senior secured debt, and equity securities; however, on March 5, 2007 we established a $20,000,000 bank line of credit with Wells Fargo under the terms of the Credit Facility described elsewhere herein, the primary purpose of which is to fund drilling costs. The line of credit with Wells Fargo was fully drawn upon, subsequent to the end of fiscal 2008, on August 20, 2008. Our success in obtaining the necessary capital resources to fund future costs associated with our operations and drilling plans is dependent upon our ability to: (i) increase revenues through acquisitions and recovery of our proved producing and proved developed non-producing oil and gas reserves; (ii) maintain effective cost controls at the corporate administrative office and in field operations; and (iii) obtain additional financing, including through the exercise of outstanding warrants. However, even if we achieve some success with our plans, there can be no 17 Table of Contents assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve significant profitable operations or to fund our drilling plans. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We have substantial capital requirements necessary for undeveloped properties for which we may not be able to obtain adequate financing. The majority of our oil and gas reserves are undeveloped. At June 30, 2008, we had proved undeveloped reserves of 5,462,271 Mcfe, which represent approximately 82% of our total proved reserves of 6,623,417 Mcfe. Recovery of the Company’s future undeveloped reserves will require significant capital expenditures to further develop these reserves during fiscal year 2009. No assurance can be given that our financing sources will be sufficient to fully fund our planned development activities or that development activities will be either successful or in accordance with our schedule. Additionally, any significant decrease in oil and gas prices or any significant increase in the cost of development could result in a significant reduction in the number of wells drilled and/or reworked. No assurance can be given that any wells will produce oil or gas in commercially profitable quantities. Development of our properties will require additional capital resources. Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2008, we have fully drawn upon the aforementioned $20,000,000 revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Energy Capital, and the aforementioned $2,000,000 Subordinated Note was fully funded at the time of its issuance in May 2008. We have no commitments to obtain any additional debt or equity financing and there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available, when required, on favorable terms to us. The inability to borrow under the revolving credit facility or obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on us, including requiring us to curtail significantly our oil and gas development plans or farm-out development of our properties. Any additional financing may involve substantial dilution to the interests of our shareholders at that time. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time, as well as the value of our properties. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations and have an adverse effect on the market price of our equity securities. Oil and natural gas prices fluctuate widely and low prices could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Our revenues, profitability and the carrying value of our oil and gas properties are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of, and demand for, oil and gas and the costs of acquiring, finding, developing and producing reserves. Our ability to obtain borrowing capacity, to repay future indebtedness, and to obtain additional capital on favorable terms is also substantially dependent upon oil and gas prices. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for oil and gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to: (i) relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and gas; (ii) market uncertainty; and (iii) a variety of additional factors, all of which are beyond our control. These factors include domestic and foreign political conditions, the price and availability of domestic and imported oil and 18 Table of Contents gas, the level of consumer and industrial demand, weather, domestic and foreign government relations, the price and availability of alternative fuels and overall economic conditions. Furthermore, the marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Volatility in oil and gas prices could affect our ability to market our production through such systems, pipelines or facilities. Substantially all of our natural gas production is currently sold to two gas marketing firms on a month-to-month basis at prevailing spot market prices. Oil prices remained subject to unpredictable political and economic forces during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, and experienced fluctuations similar to those seen in natural gas prices for the year. We believe that oil and gas prices will continue to fluctuate in response to changes in the policies of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”), changes in demand from many Asian countries and other emerging economies, current events in the Middle East, security threats to the United States, and other factors associated with the world political and economic environment. As a result of the many uncertainties associated with levels of production maintained by OPEC and other oil producing countries, the availabilities of worldwide energy supplies and competitive relationships and consumer perceptions of various energy sources, we are unable to predict what changes will occur in crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices. We are subject to uncertainties in reserve estimates and future net cash flows. This report contains estimates of our oil and gas reserves and the future net cash flows from those reserves, which have been prepared by certain independent petroleum consultants. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of oil and gas and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve estimates in this report are based on various assumptions, including, for example, constant oil and gas prices, operating expenses, capital expenditures and the availability of funds, and, therefore, are inherently imprecise indications of future net cash flows. Actual future production, cash flows, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves set forth in this report. Additionally, our reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon actual production performance, results of future development and exploration, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net reserves discounted at 10% (the “PV-10”) of proved reserves referred to in this report should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated proved reserves of oil and gas attributable to our properties. In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by: (i) the timing of both production and related expenses; (ii) changes in consumption levels; and (iii) governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the calculation of the present value of the future net cash flows using a 10% discount as required by the SEC is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the oil and gas industry in general. Furthermore, our reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon actual production, results of future development, supply and demand for oil and gas, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. See “Description of Business and Properties – Oil and Gas Reserves.” We are subject to various operating and other casualty risks that could result in liability exposure or the loss of production and revenues. Our oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including, but not limited to, unexpected formations or pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination), blowouts, fires, explosions, pollution and other risks, any of which could result in personal injuries, loss of life, damage to properties and substantial losses. Although we carry insurance at levels that we believe are reasonable, we are not fully insured against all risks. We do not carry business interruption 19 Table of Contents insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. From time to time, due primarily to contract terms, pipeline interruptions or weather conditions, the producing wells in which we own an interest have been subject to production curtailments. The curtailments range from production being partially restricted to wells being completely shut-in. The duration of curtailments varies from a few days to several months. In most cases, we are provided only limited notice as to when production will be curtailed and the duration of such curtailments. We are not currently experiencing any material curtailment of our production. We intend to continue our development and exploration activities. Exploratory drilling and, to a lesser extent, development drilling of oil and gas reserves involve a high degree of risk that no commercial production will be obtained and/or that production will be insufficient to recover drilling and completion costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. Furthermore, completion of a well does not assure a profit on the investment or a recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. We depend to a large extent on the services of Calvin A. Wallen, III, our President, Chairman of the Board, and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Wallen would have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have not obtained key personnel life insurance on Mr. Wallen. Certain of our affiliates control a majority of our outstanding common stock, which may affect other shareholders’ ability to influence matters submitted to a vote of shareholders. As of September 1, 2008, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates and certain 5% shareholders hold approximately 59% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, officers, directors and their affiliates and such shareholders have the ability to exert significant influence or control over our business affairs, including the ability to control the election of directors and results of voting on all matters requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of voting power may delay or prevent a potential change in control. Certain of our affiliates have engaged in business transactions with the Company, which may result in conflicts of interest. Certain officers, directors and related parties, including entities controlled by Mr. Wallen, the President and Chief Executive Officer, have engaged in business transactions with the Company which were not the result of arm’s length negotiations between independent parties. Our management believes that the terms of these transactions were as favorable to us as those that could have been obtained from unaffiliated parties under similar circumstances. All future transactions between us and our affiliates will be on terms no less favorable than could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties and will be approved by a majority of the disinterested members of our Board of Directors. The liquidity, market price and volume of our stock are volatile, and our stock is subject to certain penny stock rules. Our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange (the “AMEX”). The liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected, and purchasers of our common stock may have difficulty selling our common stock, if our common stock does not continue to trade in that or another suitable trading market. 20 Table of Contents There is presently only a limited public market for our common stock, and there is no assurance that a ready public market for our securities will develop. It is likely that any market that develops for our common stock will be highly volatile and that the trading volume in such market will be limited. As of September 1, 2008, the trading price of our common stock was below $5.00 per share. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, announcements of our drilling results and other events or factors. In addition, the U.S. stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our securities. We may experience adverse consequences because of required indemnification of officers and directors. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide that we will indemnify any director and officer as to liabilities incurred in their capacity as a director or officer and on those terms and conditions set forth therein to the fullest extent of Texas law. Further, we may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any such persons whether or not we would have the power to indemnify such person against the liability insured against. The foregoing could result in substantial expenditures by us and prevent any recovery from our officers, directors, agents and employees for losses incurred by us as a result of their actions. Certain anti-takeover provisions may discourage a change in control. Provisions of Texas law and our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or acquisition of our Company. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws include provisions for a classified Board of Directors (although we do not currently have a classified board), “blank check” preferred stock (the terms of which may be fixed by our Board of Directors without shareholder approval), purported limits on shareholder action by written consent in lieu of a meeting, and certain procedural requirements governing shareholder meetings. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company. We do not intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors presently intends to retain all of our earnings for the expansion of our business. We therefore do not anticipate the distribution of cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future decision of our Board of Directors to pay cash dividends will depend, among other factors, upon our earnings, financial position and cash requirements. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we collectively refer to as Section 404, require us to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on those internal controls as of the end of each year beginning in fiscal 2008. Section 404 will also require our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in future periods. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. In the course of our Section 404 evaluations, we may identify conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses and we may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. Implementing any such matters would divert the attention of our management, could involve significant costs, and may negatively impact our results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We note that there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, as they cannot prevent collusion, management override or failure of human judgment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations, result in a loss of investor confidence and negatively impact our share price. We may not have satisfactory title to our properties. Our contract land professionals have reviewed title records or other title review materials relating to substantially all of our producing properties. The title investigation performed by us prior to acquiring undeveloped properties is thorough, but less rigorous than that conducted prior to drilling, consistent with industry standards. A title opinion obtained on the drill site prior to drilling does not necessarily ensure satisfactory title. We believe we have satisfactory title to all our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties. At June 30, 2008, our leaseholds for some of our net acreage were being kept in force by virtue of production on that acreage in paying quantities. The remaining net acreage was held by lease rentals and similar provisions and requires production in paying quantities prior to expiration of various time periods to avoid lease termination. In the normal course of our business, title defects of varying degrees will arise, and, if practicable, reasonable efforts will be made to cure any such defects. The Company may make acquisitions of oil and gas properties from time to time subject to available resources. In making an acquisition, we generally focus most of our title and valuation efforts on the more significant properties. It is generally not feasible for us to perform an in-depth review of every property we purchase and all records with respect to such properties. However, even an in-depth review of properties and records may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. To the extent the seller does not operate the properties, obtaining access to properties and records may be more difficult. Even when problems are identified, the seller may not be willing or financially able to give contractual protection against such problems, and we may decide to assume environmental and other liabilities in connection with acquired properties. We are subject to various governmental regulations which may cause us to incur substantial costs. Our operations are affected from time to time in varying degrees by political developments and federal, state and local laws and regulations. In particular, oil and gas production and related operations are or have been subject to price controls, taxes and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases our cost of doing business and affects our profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, because such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws and regulations. Sales of natural gas by us are not regulated and are generally made at market prices. However, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates and service conditions, which affect the marketing of natural gas produced by us, as well as the revenues received by us for sales of such production. Sales of our natural gas currently are made at uncontrolled market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions and price fluctuations that normally attend sales of commodity products. Since the mid-1980’s, the FERC has issued a series of orders, culminating in Order Nos. 636, 636-A, 636-B and 636-C (“Order 636”), that have significantly altered the marketing and transportation of natural gas. Order 636 22 Table of Contents mandated a fundamental restructuring of interstate pipeline sales and transportation service, including the unbundling by interstate pipelines of the sale, transportation, storage and other components of the city-gate sales services such pipelines previously performed. One of the FERC’s purposes in issuing the orders was to increase competition within all phases of the natural gas industry. Order 636 and subsequent FERC orders issued in individual pipeline restructuring proceedings have been the subject of appeals, and the courts have largely upheld Order 636. Because further review of certain of these orders is still possible, and other appeals may be pending, it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of the orders on us and our natural gas marketing efforts. Generally, Order 636 has eliminated or substantially reduced the interstate pipelines’ traditional role as wholesalers of natural gas, and has substantially increased competition and volatility in natural gas markets. While significant regulatory uncertainty remains, Order 636 may ultimately enhance our ability to market and transport our natural gas, although it may also subject us to greater competition, more restrictive pipeline imbalance tolerances and greater associated penalties for violation of such tolerances. The FERC has announced several important transportation-related policy statements and proposed rule changes, including the appropriate manner in which interstate pipelines release capacity under Order 636 and, more recently, the price which shippers can charge for their released capacity. In addition, in 1995, the FERC issued a policy statement on how interstate natural gas pipelines can recover the costs of new pipeline facilities. In January 1997, the FERC issued a policy statement and a request for comments concerning alternatives to its traditional cost-of-service rate making methodology. A number of pipelines have obtained FERC authorization to charge negotiated rates as one such alternative. While any additional FERC action on these matters would affect us only indirectly, these policy statements and proposed rule changes are intended to further enhance competition in natural gas markets. We cannot predict what action the FERC will take on these matters, nor can we predict whether the FERC’s actions will achieve its stated goal of increasing competition in natural gas markets. However, we do not believe that we will be treated materially differently than other natural gas producers and marketers with which we compete. The price we receive from the sale of oil is affected by the cost of transporting such products to market. Effective January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations establishing an indexing system for transportation rates for oil pipelines, which, generally, would index such rates to inflation, subject to certain conditions and limitations. These regulations could increase the cost of transporting oil by interstate pipelines, although the most recent adjustment generally decreased rates. These regulations have generally been approved on judicial review. We are not able to predict with certainty the effect, if any, of these regulations on our operations. However, the regulations may increase transportation costs or reduce wellhead prices for oil. The ultimate impact of the complex rules and regulations issued by the FERC since the mid-1980’s cannot be predicted. We cannot predict what further action the FERC will take on these matters. We do not believe that we will be affected by any action taken materially differently than other natural gas producers, gatherers and marketers with which we compete. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are frequently made before Congress, the FERC and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress will continue. Our sales of crude oil and condensate are currently not regulated and are made at market prices. In a number of instances, however, the ability to transport and sell such products are dependent on pipelines whose rates, terms and conditions of service are subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Interstate Commerce Act. However, we do not believe that these regulations affect us any differently than other crude oil producers. The States of Texas and Louisiana and many other states require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations and impose other requirements relating to the exploration for and production 23 Table of Contents of oil and gas. Such states also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. The statutes and regulations of certain states limit the rate at which oil and gas can be produced from our properties. However, we do not believe we will be affected materially differently by these statutes and regulations than any other similarly situated oil and gas company. We are subject to various environmental risks which may cause us to incur substantial costs. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including the generation, storage, handling and transportation of oil and gas and the discharge of materials into the environment, and relating to safety and health. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation generally is toward stricter standards, and this trend will likely continue. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit or other authorization before construction or drilling commences and for certain other activities; limit or prohibit construction, drilling and other activities on certain lands lying within wilderness and other protected areas; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. The permits required for our various operations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal by issuing authorities. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations are subject to fines, penalties or injunctions. In the opinion of management, we are in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations, and we have no material commitments for capital expenditures to comply with existing environmental requirements. Nevertheless, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or in interpretations thereof could have a significant impact on us. The impact of such changes, however, would not likely be any more burdensome to us than to any other similarly situated oil and gas company. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the “Superfund” law, and similar state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to have contributed to the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. Persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. Furthermore, neighboring landowners and other third parties may file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. We generate typical oil and gas field wastes, including hazardous wastes that are subject to the federal Resources Conservation and Recovery Act and comparable state statutes. The United States Environmental Protection Agency and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by our oil and gas operations that are currently exempt from regulation as “hazardous wastes” may in the future be designated as “hazardous wastes,” and therefore be subject to more rigorous and costly operating and disposal requirements. The Oil Pollution Act (“OPA”) imposes a variety of requirements on responsible parties for onshore and offshore oil and gas facilities and vessels related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills in waters of the United States. The “responsible party” includes the owner or operator of an onshore facility or vessel or the lessee or permittee of, or the holder of a right of use and easement for, the area where an onshore facility is located. OPA assigns liability to each responsible party for oil spill removal costs and a variety of public and private damages from oil spills. Few defenses exist to the liability for oil spills imposed by OPA. OPA also imposes financial responsibility requirements. Failure to comply with ongoing requirements or inadequate cooperation in a spill event may subject a responsible party to civil or criminal enforcement actions. 24 Table of Contents We own or lease properties that for many years have produced oil and gas. We also own natural gas gathering systems. It is not uncommon for such properties to be contaminated with hydrocarbons. Although we or previous owners of these interests may have used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to federal or state requirements that could require us to remove any such wastes or to remediate the resulting contamination. All of our properties are operated by third parties over whom we have limited control. Notwithstanding our lack of control over properties operated by others, the failure of the previous owners or operators to comply with applicable environmental regulations may, in certain circumstances, adversely impact us. We may be responsible for additional costs in connection with abandonment of properties. We are responsible for payment of plugging and abandonment costs on our oil and gas properties pro rata to our working interest. Based on our experience, we anticipate that the ultimate aggregate salvage value of lease and well equipment located on our properties will exceed the costs of abandoning such properties. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in avoiding additional expenses in connection with the abandonment of any of our properties. In addition, abandonment costs and their timing may change due to many factors, including actual production results, inflation rates and changes in environmental laws and regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 