Item 1A. Risk Factors. Business Risks We will be dependent on key management and advisors. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain experienced management and industry personnel to supplement our present management team. The loss of the services or advice of any one or more of these persons, whether part of the present management or new hires, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face considerable competition from other entities in the fields in which we operate and with other entities for qualified personnel, many of which have significantly greater resources than us. We may be unable to offer key employees compensation of the type and quantity that our competitors and other entities can offer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain personnel in the future, and the inability to do so could have material adverse effects on us. We are significantly dependent upon the continued availability of Donald Rabinovitch, our president and co-chief executive officer, David Vozick, our chairman and co-chief executive officer, and Roberto Molteni, our executive vice-president of technology. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of these executive officers. The loss or unavailability to us of any of Messrs. Rabinovitch, Vozick or Molteni for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and prospects. To the extent that their services would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to procure other personnel to manage and operate us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms. We are dependent on our key personnel and ability to recruit, train and retain technology professionals. Our current and planned operations will depend in large part on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain technology professionals and sales and senior management personnel who can provide the technical, strategic, creative, marketing and audience development skills required by our clients and for our financial success. There is a shortage of qualified personnel in these fields and we compete with other companies, both those within the industry in which we operate and those in other industries, for this limited pool of technology professionals and sales and senior management personnel. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract, train, or retain such qualified personnel. 9 Further, additions of new and departures of existing personnel, particularly in key positions, can be disruptive, which also could have a material adverse effect upon us, the result of which could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results. We are dependent on a limited number of products and any material decrease in revenues from these products could have a adverse impact on our revenue and financial position. Our revenues primarily are generated from sales of our analog processor products, panoramic and intra-oral x-ray machines and, to a lesser extent, other products, including digital sensors. We can give no assurance that any of these systems and products, or any of the other products which we currently sell, or may sell in the future, will not be rendered obsolete or inferior as a result of technological change, changing customer demands, new product introductions or other developments. There also can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies, systems and products that are superior to and/or more commercially attractive than our technologies, systems and products. The rendering obsolete or inferior of our technologies, systems and products could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, our success will depend in part on our ability to improve and enhance our technologies, systems and products timely in comparison to our competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Our failure to improve and enhance any of our technologies, systems and products in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on us. A failure to adapt to technological changes within our industry could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our success will depend on our ability to keep pace with technological developments of new products and services and our ability to fulfill increasingly sophisticated customer demands. The medical, dental and veterinary imaging equipment and service markets are characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent introductions of new products, services and product and service enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to provide the products, services and support necessary to remain competitive. If we were to incur delays in sourcing and developing new products and services or enhancements to our current lines of products and services, such delays could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We are subject to substantial competition which could adversely affect our operating results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive with respect to performance, quality and price. We directly compete with local, regional and national manufacturers and distributors of medical, dental and veterinary imaging equipment. In the future, we may face further competition from new market entrants and possible alliances between existing competitors. Some of our competitors have, or may have, greater financial, marketing and other resources than us. As a result, competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive hardware and service pricing to customers, or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products and services than we are capable of accomplishing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in the future with such competitors. The failure to successfully compete could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The market for technology professional services is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition not only to persist, but to increase. Competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share. The market for our goods and services is rapidly evolving and is subject to continuous technological change. As a result, our competitors may be better positioned to address these developments or may react more favorably to these changes. Existing or future competitors may develop or offer strategic services that provide significant technological, creative, performance, price or other advantages over the services that we offer. Our growth will depend on our ability to continue to develop our brands. We believe that strengthening our brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our products and services. Promoting and positioning our brands will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and ability to provide high quality products and services. In order to promote our brands, we will need to increase our marketing budget and otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand loyalty among our customers. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues and, even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses that we incur in building our brands. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business would be harmed. 10 Our dependence on third party licenses could have adverse effects. We rely on certain software, technology and products that we have licensed from third parties, including software, technologies and products that is integrated with internally developed software and/or used in our products to perform key functions. These third-party licenses may not continue to be available for use on commercially reasonable terms. Also, the licensed software, technologies and products may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors such that the license would not continue to provide the necessary commercial benefits to us. In addition, we may not be able to license additional software, technologies and products in the future on terms advantageous to us. The loss of or inability to obtain or replace licenses to, or inability to support, maintain and enhance, any of such licensed software, could result in increased costs, including the expense of internally developing the required software, technologies and products, as well as delays or reductions in product shipments. We are subject to pricing pressures and variable foreign exchange rates, which could result in lower sales revenues and gross profits. We believe our prices and payment and delivery terms are competitive. However, certain competitors may offer more aggressive pricing and payment terms to customers. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience pricing pressure, on our products and services due to competitive factors, including industry consolidation. In addition, we have seen a general weakness in the U.S. economy negatively impacting our operating results as dental, medical and veterinary professionals reduced their capital expenditures in response to such general economic weakness. In an attempt to stimulate sales to existing and new customers, we believe, that pricing pressures may increase in the future. Decreasing prices for our products and services would require us to sell a greater number of products and services to achieve the same level of net sales and gross profit. Seasonality can cause fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. We have seen seasonal variations in our revenues and operating results. Our fourth quarter results for a fiscal year have historically exceeded corresponding revenues and operating results for the first quarter of the following fiscal year. We expect our net sales and operating results to continue to reflect this seasonality. The seasonality of our operating results could result in fluctuations of the market price of our common stock. We have had and may continue to have fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our quarterly operating results have and, in the future, may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • the demand for our products and services; • the size, timing and timely fulfilment of orders for our products and services; • the level of product, price and service competition; • changes in average selling prices and product mix, which also could affect our profit margins; • changes in our sales incentive strategy, as well as sales personnel changes; • the mix of direct and indirect sales, product returns and rebates; • federal, state or local government regulation; • our ability to upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure to accommodate growth; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; • consumer trends; • the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns; • capital spending budgets of our customers; • the timing, size and mix of product and service orders and deliveries; and • general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the industries in which we compete. Our operating expenses and capital expenditures are based in large part on our expectations of future revenues. Therefore, if revenue levels are below expectations, operating results are likely to be adversely affected. Net income may be disproportionately affected by an unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular quarter because a relatively small amount of our expenses will vary with our revenue in the short term. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not and will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is likely that in some future quarter our operating results will be below expectations. We are dependent on third-party distributors and a loss of any of these distributors could adversely affect us. We distribute our products through third-party, independent distributors. Historically, a limited number of distributors have accounted for a significant portion of our overall revenues. In general, these distributors could discontinue marketing our products with little or no notice. Certain distributors also could market products which compete with our products. The loss of or significant reduction in revenues generated through one or more of our distributors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. 11 There are a number of uncertainties associated with international sales that could adversely affect us. In each of our last three fiscal years, sales to customers outside of the United States exceeded 16% of our overall sales. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a similar portion of our overall sales revenue. International revenues are subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to: • contracts may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect; • foreign customers and distributors may require longer payment cycles, • foreign governments may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, as well as impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; • fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand; • United States export licenses may be difficult to obtain; and • intellectual property rights in foreign countries may be difficult or impossible to enforce. Moreover, many foreign countries have their own regulatory approval requirements for the sale of our products. As a result, our introduction of new products into international markets could be hindered, costly and/or time-prohibited. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We are subject to the uncertainty of litigation results that could adversely impact our financial position. We are subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations. Recent court decisions, legislative activity and regulatory enforcement may increase our exposure for claims by third-parties, including environmental claims. In some cases, substantial punitive damages may be sought. We currently have insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities. Other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance. In addition, insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of insurance may not be sufficient to cover the damages awarded. Further, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance and insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. An adverse outcome from a litigation matter could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to regulatory and legislative risks that could adversely affect our operations. We must obtain certain approvals and marketing clearances from governmental authorities, including the federal Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) and similar health authorities in foreign countries, to market and sell our products domestically and in such foreign countries. The FDA regulates the marketing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, advertising, sale and distribution of medical devices, as do various foreign authorities in their respective jurisdictions. The FDA also enforces additional regulations regarding the safety of equipment utilizing x-rays. Various states impose similar regulations. Certain of our manufactured and imported products and product components, including our x-ray systems and sensors, are currently regulated by such authorities and certain of our future products will require approval or marketing clearance from such various governmental authorities, including the FDA. In addition, various additional requirements are imposed upon us to make us eligible to sell products to the federal government. The FDA review process typically requires extended proceedings pertaining to the safety and efficacy of new products. A Section 510(k) application is required in order to market a new or modified medical device. If specifically required by the FDA, a pre-market approval may be necessary. This procedure, which must be completed prior to marketing a new medical device, is potentially expensive and time consuming. The procedure may delay or hinder a product’s timely entry into the marketplace. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the review or approval process for these products by the FDA or any other applicable governmental authorities will occur in a timely fashion, if at all, or that additional regulations will not be adopted or current regulations amended in such a manner as will adversely affect us. In addition, final approval does not assure, in any manner, the success of the approved product. We also are subject to other federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions and manufacturing practices. International sales of our products are subject to the regulatory agency product registration requirements of each country in which our products are sold. The regulatory review process varies from country to country and may in some cases require the submission of clinical data. We typically rely upon our distributors in foreign countries to obtain the required regulatory approvals. 12 The extent of government regulation that might result from any future legislation or administrative action cannot be accurately predicted. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition to legislative and regulatory concerns directly affecting us, our customers operate in the health care industry, which is highly regulated. Both existing and future governmental regulations directed at our customers could adversely impact us indirectly. Further, cost-containment efforts by health maintenance organizations may adversely affect the potential market for our products. We have product warranty exposure which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We generally warrant each of our products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year from the date of shipment, plus any extended warranty period purchased by the customer and three years for our digital sensors. The need for warranty service could have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things, requiring additional expenditures for parts and personnel, as well as damaging our reputation and goodwill. There is a potential for product recall and product liability claims. Our products may be subject to recall for unforeseen reasons. In addition, certain applications, including projected applications, of our products entail the risk of product liability claims. Such risks will exist even with respect to those products that have received, or in the future may receive, regulatory approval for commercial sale. These claims may be made by our customers, distributors or others. Although we have maintained insurance coverage related to product liability claims, no assurance can be given that product liability insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, that it can be obtained in sufficient amounts or at reasonable cost or that it will be sufficient to cover any claims that may arise. We do not maintain any insurance relating to potential recalls of our products. Costs associated with potential product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on us. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could prevent us from selling our products and hinder our financial performance. The technology and designs underlying our products may not be fully protected by patent rights. Our future success is dependent primarily on non-patented trade secrets and on the innovative skills, technological expertise and management abilities of our employees. Even with the patent rights in our products, our technology may not preclude or inhibit competitors from producing products that have identical performance as our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any protected trade secret could ultimately be proven valid if challenged. Any such challenge, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert the attention and resources of our management and, if successful, require us to pay monetary damages. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We believe our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the future or that, if asserted, any infringement claim will be successfully defended. We also may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management away from running our business and seriously harm our business. If we were to discover that our products violated the intellectual property rights of others, we would have to obtain licenses from these parties in order to continue marketing our products without substantial re-engineering. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all and, if we could not obtain such licenses, we might not be able to re-engineer our products successfully or in a timely fashion. If we fail to address any infringement issues timely and successfully, we would be forced to incur significant costs, including damages and potentially satisfying indemnification obligations that we have with our customers, and we could be prevented from selling certain of our products. Price competition could reduce market share or cause us to reduce prices to retain or recapture market share, which could reduce revenues and margins. Our operations generally face intense competition in all markets. The medical, dental and veterinary imaging industries have historically experienced price competition. This price competition could result in us losing market share in some markets or force us to reduce prices and thereby our profit margins in order to retain or recapture market share. Increased price competition in the future could further reduce revenues, profit margins and backlog. Increased advertising or better marketing by our competitors could cause us to lose market share and revenues, or cause us to incur increased costs in order to retain or recapture market share. Extensive advertising or effective marketing by competitors could cause us to lose market share and revenues, or cause us to increase our own marketing costs. In addition, competitors may change the types or mix of products or services offered. These changes may attract customers, causing us to lose market share and revenue or to incur costs to vary our own types or mix of products or services in response to such competitive factors. 13 If we do not respond effectively to changing consumer preferences, our market share, revenues and profitability could decrease. Our future market share, revenues and profits will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences of professionals who utilize medical, dental and veterinary imaging equipment. We may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences, or we may identify them later than our competitors do. In addition, any strategies we may implement to address these trends may prove excessively costly, incorrect or ineffective. Changes or increases in, or failure to comply with, regulations applicable to our business could increase our costs. The industries in which we compete are subject to extensive regulation and licensing requirements under federal, state and local laws. Risks Involving Our Common Stock and Corporate Governance Limited directors’ liability could prevent our shareholders from holding our directors responsible for a lack of care. Our certificate of incorporation provides that our directors will not be held liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages upon breach of a director’s fiduciary duty, except to the extent otherwise required by law. There is significant volatility in our stock prices. The market for our common stock is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock could widely fluctuate in response to, among other things: • quarterly variations in our operating and financial results; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our vendors or our competitors; • changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services; • changes in the product and service mix of our sales; • changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates as a whole or for individual geographic areas, products, services or product and sales categories; • unscheduled system interruptions; • our ability to timely develop, introduce and market new products, as well as enhanced versions of our current products; • additions or departures of key personnel; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the medical imaging industries; • changes in the market valuations of other medical imaging companies; • developments in governmental regulations of medical imaging products; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; and • other events or factors that may be beyond our control. Statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we conduct our business or relating to us or our competitors could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market price for the securities of many companies which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have no history of paying dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock is limited under our credit facility with our bank. We may issue substantial amounts of additional shares of our common stock without shareholder approval, which could dilute the equity interests of our shareholders. We have outstanding an aggregate of 12,401,732 shares of our common stock. We also have 5 million shares of serial preferred stock authorized but unissued, all of which shares are not reserved for specific purposes, and an additional (a) 1,388,400 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options granted or available for grant under our various stock plans and (b) 83,334 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants we previously granted and are currently outstanding (including the 50,0000 warrants held by certain of the selling securityholders, the underlying shares for which are being offered pursuant to a registered resale prospectus). All of such shares may be issued without any action or approval by our shareholders. Any shares issued by us in the future would further dilute the percentage ownership held by our shareholders. 14 Substantial sales of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our acquisition strategy may result in dilution to our shareholders. Our business strategy to increase our market share in the industries in which we compete includes the possibility of strategic acquisitions of other businesses, technologies and services. We anticipate that future acquisitions will require cash and issuances of our capital stock, including our common stock. To the extent we are required to pay cash for any acquisition, we anticipate that we would be required to obtain additional equity and/or debt financing. Equity financing would result in dilution for our then current shareholders. Such stock issuances and financing, if obtained, may not be on terms favorable to us and could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders at the time(s) of these stock issuances and financings. Item 