Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets could negatively impact our customers and therefore our results of operations. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our 19 Table of Contents results of operations. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In the past few years, we have faced adverse macro economic forces, which have impacted our selling markets and the credit markets of our customers. At this point the impact from these forces are relatively mild; however, we may be further impacted if adverse economic conditions in Europe worsen. In the future, we may face the following challenges: deferrals of purchases due to decreases in capital budgets of our customers, delays in the purchasing cycle due to greater scrutiny of deals and increased internal competition for limited capital dollars, and a significant increase in requests for quotes for operating leases. The aforementioned factors may lead to a decrease in revenue, an increase of deferred revenue, or could lead to installment cash collection. Our success depends largely on the continued acceptance of our iQ and iChem product lines. Our current strategy assumes that our instrument platforms will be adopted by a large number of end-users. We have invested and continue to invest a substantial amount of our resources in promotion and marketing of the iQ and iChem product lines in order to increase their market penetration, expand sales into new geographic areas and enhance and expand the system features. Failure of our instrument operating platforms to achieve and maintain a significant market presence, or the failure to successfully implement our promotion and marketing strategy, will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To maintain our position as a leading worldwide provider of urinalysis systems, we must successfully develop and commercialize our next generation 3GEMS urinalysis platform. We are investing substantial resources in developing our next generation 3GEMS urinalysis platform, which will serve as the basis for our next generation products in urinalysis. To remain a leading worldwide provider of automated urine microscopy and chemistry systems, our 3GEMS urinalysis products must meet or exceed our customers’ expectations for next generation urinalysis products. Our 3GEMS urinalysis platform must be adopted by a large number of end-users if we are to maintain and grow the significant market presence that we have achieved with our iQ platform. If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory clearances or approvals for our products or product enhancements, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and numerous other Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Our failure to comply with such regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearances or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. In the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. The process of obtaining regulatory authorizations to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such authorizations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new class II or III medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved pre-market approval, or PMA, application. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. The PMA approval process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. Introduction to the market of products we develop that require regulatory clearance or approval may be delayed. In addition, because we cannot assure you that any new products or any product enhancements we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, the regulatory approval process for our products or product enhancements may take significantly longer than anticipated. There is no assurance that the FDA will not require that a new product or product enhancement go through the lengthy and expensive PMA approval process. To date, all of our class II or III products have been cleared through the 510(k) process. It is possible that some of our molecular diagnostics products under development may be reviewed by the FDA under a PMA filing. 20 Table of Contents Foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent, and to the extent we continue to market and sell our products in foreign countries, we will be subject to rigorous regulation in the future. In such circumstances, we would rely significantly on our distributors to comply with the varying regulations, and any failures on their part could result in restrictions on the sale of our products in foreign countries. There is no assurance that U.S. or foreign regulatory bodies will ultimately allow market clearance or approval for these products. Regulatory delays or failures to obtain clearances and approvals could disrupt our business, harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory clearances or approvals or may require us to recall or cease marketing our products until clearances are obtained. Modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals or require us to recall or cease marketing the modified devices until these clearances or approvals are obtained. The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new approval, supplement or clearance. A manufacturer may determine that a modification could not significantly affect safety or efficacy and does not represent a major change in its intended use, so that no new 510(k) is necessary. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision and may disagree. The FDA may also on its own initiative determine that a new clearance or approval is required. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing our products as modified, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions. If a manufacturer determines that a modification to an FDA-cleared device could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, then the manufacturer must file for a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a PMA approval. Where we determine that modifications to our products require a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, we may not be able to obtain those additional clearances or approvals for the modifications or additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. For those products sold in the European Union, we must notify our E.U. competent authority by means of revision of our technical file, if significant changes are made to the products or if there are substantial changes to our quality assurance systems affecting those products. Delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. Any failure to introduce our future products and systems successfully into the market could adversely affect our business. Our commercial success depends on the timely development of new products that are needed for future growth. These new products depend on our success in demonstrating technical feasibility and achieving cost targets and functionality demanded by the market. Even if our product development efforts are successful and even if the requisite regulatory approvals are obtained, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payers and the medical community. A number of additional factors may limit the market acceptance of products including the following: Ÿ rate of adoption by healthcare providers; Ÿ rate of our products’ acceptance by the target market; Ÿ timing of market entry relative to competitive products; Ÿ availability of alternative products; Ÿ price of our product relative to alternative products; Ÿ availability of third-party reimbursement; and Ÿ extent of marketing efforts by us and third-party distributors or agents retained by us. Failure to effectively develop new products or achieve clinical acceptance will adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We face intense competition and our failure to compete effectively, particularly against larger, more established companies will cause our business to suffer. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. We compete in this industry based primarily on product performance, service and price. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do, and may also have substantially greater experience in developing products, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing and distribution. As a result, they may be better able to compete for market share, even in areas in which our products may be superior. Further, our competitive position could be harmed by the establishment of patent protection by our competitors or other companies. The existing competitors or other companies may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or affordable than those being developed by us or that would render our technology and products less competitive or obsolete. If we are unable to effectively compete in our market, our financial condition and results of operation will materially suffer. If we choose to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, we may experience difficulty in the identification or integration of any such acquisition, and our business may suffer. Our commercial success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. Accordingly, we may in the future pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. We do not know if we will be able to identify or complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from acquisitions could adversely affect our operating results. If we do not establish strategic partnerships to commercialize our products under development, we will have to undertake commercialization efforts on our own, which could be costly and may ultimately be unsuccessful. We may selectively partner with other companies to obtain assistance for the commercialization of certain of our products. We may enter into strategic partnerships with third parties to develop and commercialize some of our products that are intended for larger markets or that otherwise require a large, specialized sales and marketing organization, and we may enter into strategic partnerships for products that are targeted beyond our selected target markets. We face competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and these strategic partnerships can be intricate and time consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate strategic partnerships on acceptable terms, or at all. We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any strategic partnerships because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing strategic partnerships. If we are unable to negotiate strategic partnerships for our products under development, we may be forced to reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities or undertake commercialization activities at our own expense. In addition, we will bear the entire risk related to the commercialization of these products. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Changes in reimbursement fees or lower than anticipated reimbursement for diagnostics tests could reduce demand and the price at which we can sell our products. Successful sales of our products will depend on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors both domestically and internationally. Healthcare providers that purchase medical devices generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed with these devices. Both public and private insurance coverage and reimbursement plans are central to new product acceptance. Customers are unlikely to use our products if they do not receive reimbursement adequate to cover the cost of our products. 22 Table of Contents To date, reimbursement has generally been available for the diagnostic tests that our products perform. However, all third-party coverage and reimbursement programs, whether government funded or insured commercially, whether inside the United States or outside, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs through limitations on covered items and services, prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, second opinions required prior to major surgery, careful review of bills, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of programs and legislative changes to coverage and reimbursement policies could potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for medical devices. We believe that future coverage and reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Third-party reimbursement and coverage for our products may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets. Future legislation, regulation, coverage or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for our existing products or our products currently under development, and limit our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. If we fail to meet changing demands of technology, we may not continue to be able to compete successfully with our competitors. The market for our products and systems is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends upon our ability to introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, enhance current product lines and respond to evolving customer requirements. Our failure to meet these demands could result in a loss of our market share and competitiveness and could harm our revenues and results of operations. Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our pending U.S. and foreign patent applications may not issue as patents or may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained or do obtain may be challenged by re-examination, opposition or other administrative proceeding, or may be challenged in litigation, and such challenges could result in a determination that the patent is invalid. In addition, competitors may be able to design alternative methods or devices that avoid infringement of our patents. To the extent our intellectual property protection offers inadequate protection, or is found to be invalid, we are exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. If our intellectual property does not provide adequate protection against our competitors’ products, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to pursuing patents on our technology, we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, corporate partners and, when needed, our advisors. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patents or other intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from our management. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenges from 23 Table of Contents others. Additionally, our earliest patents began to expire in 2010, which may allow our competitors, many of which may have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, to develop technologies previously protected by these expiring patents. The healthcare industry is characterized by patent litigation, and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of our management’s time and efforts, require us to pay damages or prevent us from selling our products. The healthcare industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Whether or not a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Our competitors may assert that they own U.S. or foreign patents containing claims that cover our products, their components or the methods we employ in the manufacture or use of our products. In addition, we may become a party to an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of invention. Because patent applications can take many years to issue and in many instances at least 18 months to publish, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that contain claims that cover our products. There could also be existing patents, of which we are unaware, that contain claims that cover one or more components of our products. As the number of participants in our industry increases, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us also increases. Any interference proceeding, litigation or other assertion of claims against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of our management from our core business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to be infringing, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or royalties and could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our products or technologies, we may be unable to make, use, sell or otherwise commercialize one or more of our products. In addition, if we are found to willfully infringe, we could be required to pay treble damages, among other penalties. We operate in a consolidating industry that creates barriers to our market penetration. The healthcare industry in recent years has been characterized by consolidation. Large hospital chains and groups of affiliated hospitals prefer to negotiate comprehensive supply contracts for all of their supply needs at once. Large suppliers can often equip an entire laboratory and offer hospital chains and groups one-stop shopping for laboratory instruments, supplies and service. Larger suppliers also typically offer pricing discounts to their customers based on the customer’s total volume of business with the supplier. The convenience and discounts offered by these large suppliers are administrative and financial incentives that we do not offer our customers. Our plans for further market penetration in the urinalysis market and penetration into the hematology and molecular diagnostics markets will depend in part on our ability to overcome these and any new barriers resulting from continued consolidation in the healthcare industry. The failure to overcome such barriers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. Changes in government regulation of the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. Federal and state legislative proposals are periodically introduced or proposed that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, nationally, at the state level or both. Future legislation, regulation or payment policies of Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance plans, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors could adversely affect the demand for our current or future products and our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Moreover, healthcare legislation is an area of extensive and dynamic change, and we cannot predict future legislative changes in the healthcare field or their impact on our industry or our business. Any impairment in our ability to market our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 24 Table of Contents U.S. healthcare reform legislation may result in significant changes, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. Government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and increasing. In March 2010, U.S. federal legislation was enacted to reform healthcare. The legislation provides for reductions in the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also includes a productivity adjustment that reduces the CPI market basket update beginning in 2011. The legislation imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain medical devices in the United States, including those purchased and used by laboratories, beginning in 2013. The legislation establishes the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing Medicare cost growth while preserving quality. These proposals automatically will be implemented unless Congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. Further, the legislation calls for a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation that will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. The legislation provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in Medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. The legislation also permits the establishment of accountable care organizations, a new healthcare delivery model. While the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and may result in significant change. Our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to fully realize deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2011, we have deferred tax assets of approximately $8.2 million resulting from the differences between the financial statement and the tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized through future taxable income or alternative tax strategies. However, the net deferred tax assets could be reduced in the near term if management’s estimates of taxable income during the carryforward period are not realized or are significantly reduced or alternative tax strategies are not available. Although we believe that the deferred tax asset is recoverable, there is no assurance that we will be able to generate taxable income in the years that the differences reverse. We rely on independent and some single-source suppliers for key components of our instruments. Any delay or disruption in the supply of components may prevent us from selling our products and negatively impact our operations. Certain of our components are obtained from outside vendors, and the loss or breakdown of our relationships with these outside vendors could subject us to substantial delays in the delivery of our products to our customers. Furthermore, certain key components of our instruments and consumables are manufactured by only one supplier. Because this supplier is the only vendor with which we have a relationship for a particular component, we may be unable to sell products this supplier becomes unwilling or unable to deliver components meeting our specifications. Our inability to sell products to meet delivery schedules could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, as well as our financial condition and results of operation. If we are unable to secure a supply of consumable strips for our installed base of urine chemistry analyzers upon expiration of our single source supply agreement with a Japanese manufacturer at the end of 2013, our domestic consumable sales will be negatively impacted. We currently purchase from a Japanese manufacturer all necessary consumable strips for our existing installed base of AX-4280 urine chemistry analyzers that we distributed for this Japanese manufacturer in the United States prior to the launch of our own proprietary iChem analyzers. Under our current agreement, the Japanese manufacturer will sell us consumable strips for the AX-4280 analyzer through 2013. Our ability to continue to sell consumable strips for use with the AX-4280 analyzer to our existing customers of this product, and to continue to service and support the product, will depend on our ability to secure a supply of consumable strips for the AX-4280. If we are unable to secure a supply of consumable strips, our domestic sales of consumable strips will be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain contracts with Group Purchasing Organizations, or GPOs. A significant portion of our domestic sales are affected through agreements with participant members of GPOs. A failure to renew one or more GPO contracts may have a material effect on our domestic sales. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate management and other skilled employees. Our success depends in significant part upon the continued services of key management and skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and there are a limited number of people with knowledge of, and experience in, our industry. We do not have employment agreements with most of our key employees nor maintain life insurance policies on them. The loss of key personnel, especially without advance notice, or our inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain our technological edge and ultimately our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to retain our key management and skilled personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for us, our customers or our products may have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our products are used to gather information for medical decisions and diagnosis. Accordingly, a defect in the design or manufacture of our products, or a failure of our products to perform for the use that we specify, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability arising from inaccurate or allegedly inaccurate test results. Misuse of our products by a technician that results in inaccurate or allegedly inaccurate test results could similarly subject us to claims of liability. While we currently have insurance for our business, property, directors and officers, and products, insurance is increasingly costly and the scope of coverage is more narrow, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be required to cover the amounts in excess of our insurance limits. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage that is outside of our insurance coverage, we may incur significant costs associated with loss or damage that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs, or at all. We do not have the financial resources to self-insure, and it is unlikely that we will have these financial resources in the foreseeable future. We have product liability insurance that covers our products and business operation, but we may need to increase and expand this coverage commensurate with our expanding business. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: Ÿ substantial costs of related litigation or regulatory action; Ÿ substantial monetary penalties or awards; Ÿ decreased demand for our products; Ÿ reduced revenue or market penetration; Ÿ injury to our reputation; Ÿ an inability to establish new strategic relationships; Ÿ increased product liability insurance rates; and Ÿ an inability to secure continuing coverage. Furthermore, any impairment of our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our sales and prospects for future business. We have not received any indication that our insurance carrier will not renew our product liability insurance at or near current premiums; however, we cannot guarantee that this will continue to be the case. In addition, any failure to comply with FDA regulations governing manufacturing practices could hamper our ability to defend against product liability lawsuits. 26 Table of Contents Our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could cause us to curtail or cease operations. Instruments for our diagnostics division are manufactured in a single facility in the San Fernando Valley and Arista Molecular and Iris Molecular Diagnostics are located in Carlsbad, California, all of which are near known earthquake fault zones and, therefore, are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, such as power loss, fire, and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. We currently may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions, and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business, financial condition and prospects. If we are unable to manage our growth, our results could suffer. We have been experiencing significant growth in the scope of our operations. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, as well as operational resources. In order to achieve our business objectives, we anticipate that we will need to continue to grow. If this growth occurs, it will continue to place additional significant demands on our management and our operational resources, and will require that we continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls both in the United States and internationally. In particular, if our growth continues, it will increase the challenges in implementing appropriate control systems, expanding our sales and marketing infrastructure capabilities, providing adequate training and supervision to maintain high quality standards, and preserving our cultural values. The main challenge associated with our growth has been the management of our expenses. Our inability to scale our business appropriately or otherwise adapt to growth, could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. To market and sell our products, we depend on third-party distributors, and they may not be successful. We currently depend on third-party distributors to sell our IVD products in most markets outside of the United States as well as all Iris Sample Processing products. The quarterly and yearly demand from distributors depends on factors such as buying patterns, cash availability, currency exchange rates, etc. If these distributors are not successful in selling our products, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of revenue. Our distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately or if we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize revenue growth internationally. Over the long term, we intend to grow our business internationally, and to do so we will need to attract additional distributors to expand into new territories or to sell new products. Our sales in international markets are subject to a variety of laws and political and economic risks that may adversely impact our sales and results of operations in certain regions. Our ability to capitalize on growth in international markets is subject to risks including: Ÿ changes in currency exchange rates that impact the price to international consumers; Ÿ the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; Ÿ unexpected changes in local regulatory requirements; Ÿ the difficulties associated with promoting products in unfamiliar cultures; Ÿ subject to general, political and economic risks in connection with our international sales operations, including: Ÿ political instability; Ÿ changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and Ÿ general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. Any of the above mentioned factors could adversely affect our sales and results of operations in international markets. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to currency fluctuations. We are exposed to certain foreign currency risks in international markets where we source, produce, market or sell product. Some consumable chemistry strips and spare parts for our installed base of chemistry analyzers are sourced from a supplier located in Japan. Our purchases from this supplier are denominated in Japanese Yen and any fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar/Japanese Yen exchange rate could result in increased costs for these key components. We no longer have exposure to the Japanese Yen for instruments since attaining FDA clearance in the United States for our chemistry analyzer, the iChemVELOCITY, and iRICELL workstation. For consumables, the exposure will gradually decrease as we begin replacing AX-4280 machines with our iChemVELOCITY domestically. We are also exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to the exportation of our products. With the exception of France, Germany and the United Kingdom where our operations are denominated in Euros and British Pounds, most of our sales are denominated in U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, any fluctuation in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the currency of the country with which we are exporting products could also affect our ability to sell internationally. To the extent we conduct operations abroad in non-local currency, fluctuations in the exchange rate between functional currency of those operations and the local currency may lead to significant increased costs and could negatively impact our profitability. Risks Related to Our Personalized Medicine Division If third-party payors, including Medicare and insurance companies, do not provide reimbursement for our molecular diagnostic tests, the commercial success of our Personalized Medicine Division may be compromised. Revenues from our ProsVue test and any molecular diagnostic tests we develop in the future, in the US and foreign markets will depend in part, upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. These third-party payors include government healthcare programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Reimbursement procedures in both the domestic and foreign markets are highly complex and third-party health plans are fragmented, which makes systematic reimbursement arrangements difficult to establish. We expect to focus substantial resources and efforts on gaining adoption of and reimbursement coverage for ProsVue. If we are unable to achieve adequate reimbursement coverage from third-party payors for ProsVue or any molecular diagnostic test we develop in the future, our ability to achieve any kind of substantial revenues from our Personalized Medicine Division will be limited. Increasingly, third-party payors are trying to control healthcare costs by demanding lower prices or rebates. They have recently reduced the number of new molecular diagnostic tests for which they will provide reimbursement, and even when third-party payors are willing to provide reimbursement, they are increasingly reducing the reimbursement amounts they will pay for new molecular diagnostic tests. Additionally, there is no guarantee that a test that has been approved for reimbursement in the past will remain approved for reimbursement or that similar or additional diagnostic tests will be approved in the future. Therefore, we may not be reimbursed, or such reimbursement may be inadequate, for ProsVue or future molecular diagnostic tests. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. Any changes to the current healthcare laws and regulations may necessitate a change to our business model. The clinical laboratory industry is a highly regulated industry. Our clinical laboratory is subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including with respect to anti-kickback, billing and claims, privacy, security and electronic transactions (including HIPAA), and the regulation of laboratories, including CLIA. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with all of these laws and regulations, they may be, or the way the courts interpret these laws and regulations, may be, changed or amended at anytime. Any such changes may necessitate a change to our business model or result in increased costs of compliance, which may adversely affect our business, prospects and the results of our operations. 28 Table of Contents We may incur substantial penalties including fines or possible debarment from Medicare or Medicaid if we violate certain government payor laws and regulations. We are required to comply with a number of different government regulations relating to billing practices and relationships with physicians and hospitals. Violations of these regulations can lead to civil penalties, criminal liability and possible disbarment from participation in Medicare and Medicaid. If we were ever determined to be in violation of these regulations our relationship with many of our clients would be severely affected and we could face a material adverse effect to our financial condition or results of operations. Our laboratory business may be harmed if we are unable to comply with certain healthcare related laws and regulations, including the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967 and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (collectively, CLIA). Arista is regulated and licensed by a number of federal and state statutes and regulations, including CLIA. If a clinical laboratory fails to comply with CLIA requirement or state healthcare and licensing laws and regulations, it can have its license suspended or revoked. At this time we believe that we comply with these laws and regulations. If these laws or regulations are amended, we may have to change the manner in which we conduct our laboratory business, which could lead to additional expenses in running our laboratory business. If we are unable to properly comply with these changes, we could have our licenses suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our laboratory operations. We face possible litigation, penalties and damage to our reputation with payors, physicians and patients if we are unable to properly protect customer-related information. Arista receives a variety of personal information about our customers. We believe that we have a strong security system in place and that we comply with all federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of personal information (including HIPAA). However, if there was a breach of our security system or we inadvertently released protected patient information, we face possible monetary fines, litigation and damage to our reputation. We face possible litigation, penalties and medical malpractice for errors in laboratory testing results. Arista utilizes the best practices in quality assurance to avoid and prevent errors in test results. However, if the laboratory produces an inadvertent erroneous result, this can adversely affect a patient’s diagnosis and treatment and may result in medical malpractice litigation for which fines and damages can be substantial and could exceed the limits of our medical malpractice insurance coverage, causing substantial damage to our financial condition. Federal, state and CLIA regulations define certain personnel standards that our laboratory must adhere to, including education, background and experience requirements. Our ability to attract, hire and maintain critical personnel may limit the testing our laboratory can perform. The laboratory relies on its ability to attract, hire and keep certain critical personnel such as Medical Directors and licensed laboratory personnel who have appropriate advanced degrees and years of experience necessary to satisfy CLIA requirements and certain state requirements. If the laboratory cannot attract, hire and maintain these critical employees, then the laboratory’s ability to perform certain testing may be severely limited. This can damage the laboratory’s reputation with its customers and severely impact our financial performance. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The potential issuance of preferred stock and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent a change in control and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to issue additional shares of preferred stock and some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to make an unsolicited takeover attempt of us. Additionally, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These anti-takeover provisions and the Board of Directors ability to issue additional shares of preferred stock may depress the price of our common stock by making it more difficult for third parties to acquire us by offering to purchase shares of our stock at a premium to its market price without approval of our board of directors. They could also have the effect of preventing changes in our management. 29 Table of Contents Our quarterly sales and operating results may fluctuate in future periods, and if we fail to meet expectations the price of our common stock may decline. Our quarterly sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to do so in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If our quarterly sales or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in our sales and operating results include the following: Ÿ variation in demand for our products, including seasonality; Ÿ our ability to develop, introduce, market and gain market acceptance of new products and product enhancements in a timely manner; Ÿ our ability to manage inventories, accounts receivable and cash flows; Ÿ our ability to control costs; Ÿ the size, timing, rescheduling or cancellation of orders from consumers and distributors; and Ÿ our ability to forecast future sales and operating results and subsequently attain them. The amount of expenses we incur depends, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales. In particular, we expect to continue incurring substantial expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of our products. Since many of our costs are fixed in the short term, if we have a shortfall in sales, we may be unable to reduce expenses quickly enough to avoid losses. If this occurs, we will not be profitable. Accordingly, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 