ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in the Form 10-K. The risks described below are the ones we deem to be material to our business, but are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business could be harmed materially. Current economic conditions and the global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Our operations and performance depend on worldwide economic conditions and their general impact on levels of business spending. These economic conditions have continued to deteriorate significantly in many countries and regions and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Uncertainties in the financial and credit markets have caused our customers to postpone purchases, and continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products. Protectionist trade measures that may be adopted in response to the economic downturn could reduce demand for our products overseas. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue additional expansion opportunities and maintain our desired level of revenue growth in the future. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on the our financial condition and operating results. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry and have experienced a downturn in the business cycle, which has materially adversely affected our revenues and cash generation. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant economic downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, erosion of average selling prices, production over-capacity and high inventory levels. For example, beginning in the quarter ended December 31, 2000, we experienced a three-year downturn in our business cycle. We are currently experiencing another very severe down-turn in our business cycle and may experience downturns in the future. We believe that, in light of these events, many of our customers curtailed and may in the future delay or further curtail spending on technology, which could negatively affect our quarterly results or financial condition in the future. This resulted in sharp declines in our net sales in the second half of fiscal 2009. This global economic downturn has increased pressure on us to reduce our prices, which could impair our revenues, gross margins and operating cash flow. It has also increased the risk that we may not collect all our accounts receivable or that suppliers, assemblers and test subcontractors may go out of business, creating delays in our ability to ship products. From time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. We have in the past experienced substantial period-to-period declines in operating results, and will likely in the future experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results that are attributable to semiconductor industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. As a result of the sale of our universal remote control and secured transaction processor businesses, we offer a narrower range of products and any downturn in the market for our product offering may disproportionately affect us. As a result of the sale of our universal remote control and secured transaction processor businesses to Maxim and UEI, our product offering has been significantly narrowed. This may disproportionately expose us to losses should the markets in which we currently compete continue to experience contraction as a result of the global worldwide recession. 11 We have experienced declines in net sales, and, if we fail to implement our new product strategy, we may continue to experience declines in sales and gross margins. In each of the past five years, our net sales from continuing operations have fluctuated significantly and our future financial results are anticipated to be subject to substantial fluctuations. Our total net sales were $36.2 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, $44.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and $58.0 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. We anticipate that sales of our classic products may continue to decline over time. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our new product strategy, which consists partly of refocusing our business on microcontroller products built around our core 8-bit micrologic architecture, beginning with the Z8 Encore! and eZ80 Acclaim! flash products. Since 2002, we have launched our new series of 8-bit embedded flash microcontrollers and derivatives. These products typically have a long lead time from design to production, which can range from twelve months to thirty-six months. These embedded flash products represented approximately 29% of our net sales for continuing operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 compared to 30% of our net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, and we currently expect the contribution of these products to continue to grow. If we are unable to develop new products in a manner that timely meets changing market requirements, or if we are not able to achieve significant sales of our 8-bit microcontroller products for any reason, our product strategy may fail and our net sales and operating results may continue to decline or not grow as currently expected. In addition, as we introduce new products we experience additional start up costs and unfavorable manufacturing prices due to low volume. In addition, we do not expect margins on our 8-bit embedded flash products to be as strong as those on our classic products. Consequently, the introduction of new products could have a negative impact on our gross margin even if sales from such new products offset declining revenues from our classic products. If we are unable to obtain adequate production capacity or quality, our business will be harmed. We rely on independent third-party foundry manufacturers, including X-FAB, TSMC and UMC, to fabricate wafers for all of our product needs. Industry-wide shortages in foundry capacity could harm our financial results. If we are unable to obtain the requisite foundry capacity to manufacture our products, or if we have to pay higher than anticipated prices to foundries in periods of tight capacity, we may not be able to meet our customers' demand for our products. Any delay in initiating production at third-party foundries, any inability to have new products manufactured at such foundries, or any failure to meet our customers' demands, could damage our relationships with our customers and may decrease our sales. Other significant risks associated with relying on these third-party foundries include: reduced control over the cost of our products, delivery schedules, capacity constraints and product quality; limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our technology; yield or quality issues with the supplier which could result in us being unable to supply product to customers or providing product that does not meet their quality or performance standards; vulnerability to third-party foundries' financial, operations or production difficulties; and the time and cost associated with switching or sourcing alternate foundries. We may require additional capital in the future and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Based on our existing financial plans and forecasts, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our planned capital needs for the next year. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our future activities. We may be able to raise these funds by selling securities to the public or selected investors, or by borrowing money. The conditions in the current financial markets would make borrowing money or selling securities very difficult. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly, reduce planned capital expenditures and research and development, make selective dispositions of our assets or obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets, or otherwise impair our ability to remain competitive. 12 We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for test and information technology and equipment to remain competitive, the failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation of which could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our capital expenditures were $0.6 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, $1.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and $2.1million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. We may be required to increase our future capital expenditures to meet increased demand. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required, and in the future is likely to continue to require, a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. Even though we outsource a significant amount of our manufacturing, we are required to spend funds on mask designs and process technology improvements to remain competitive. We have recently outsourced our test operations. If we need to add additional test capacity internally, we will have to incur significant expenditures to acquire new test equipment. We also may incur significant costs to implement new test equipment and new information technologies to increase our productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our consolidated balance sheets. There can be no assurances that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in information technology and equipment. Interruptions in information technology systems could affect our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business, especially between the Philippines and our San Jose, California headquarters. Any significant system or network disruption, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach and energy blackouts, could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We have implemented measures to manage our risks related to such disruptions, but such disruptions could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. If we are unable to prevail in a patent litigation lawsuit we may incur substantial monetary liability and may be required to change our business practices. On August 11, 2005, Microchip Technology, Inc. ("Microchip") filed a patent infringement claim against us in the U.S. District Court of Arizona (case number CV05-2406-PHX-MHM). Microchip alleges that we have infringed, and currently infringe, its patents numbered 5,847,450, 6,696,316 and 6,483,183. Microchip claims that unspecified products of ours, including the Z8 Encore! XP 4K Series of products, infringe these patents and is seeking preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, unspecified damages and costs, including attorneys' fees. We filed a response to the claims on September 15, 2005 generally denying the claims and challenging the validity of the patents. On January 10, 2006, we filed a request for patent re-examination with the U.S. PTO, which was granted in February and March 2006 for all 3 patents. On April 11, 2008, we received a notice that all of Microchip's claims under these three patents have been rejected by the U.S. PTO. After this favorable ruling, Microchip filed appeal notices in the U.S. PTO in May 2008. We do not believe it is feasible to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of this litigation at this time. We believe we have meritorious defenses and will defend ourselves against these claims vigorously. We may incur substantial expenses in our defense against these claims. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial monetary liabilities and be required to change our business practices. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We depend on third-party assemblers throughout Asia, including Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines, and the failure of these third parties to continue to provide services to us on sufficiently favorable terms could harm our business. We use outside contract assemblers and test operations in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines for packaging and testing our products. These countries have been subject to political instability and terrorist activities. The packaging and testing of semiconductors is a complex process requiring, among other things, a high degree of technical skill and advanced equipment. 13 If we are unable to obtain additional assembly and test capacity on sufficiently favorable terms, our ability to maintain or grow our net sales could be impaired. Shortages in contract assembly and test capacity could cause shortages in our products and could also result in the loss of customers as a result of delays. Because we rely on these third parties, we also have less control over our costs, delivery schedules and quality of our products and our technology is at greater risk of misappropriation. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Our operating results depend on our ability to introduce and sell new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively based on price and performance and that address customer requirements. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and our customers and potential customers introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for new products and technologies. Our ability to introduce and sell new products successfully depends on several factors, including: development of support tools and technical documentation that make complex products easy for engineers to understand and use; proper new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; support from our foundry service providers; complexity of the new products to be designed and manufactured; and market acceptance of our products and our customers' products. The emphasis of our new product development is on products built on our 8-bit microcontroller architectures. If market demand for these products does not develop as we anticipate, our product development strategy could fail. Because our products are complex, we may not meet the design and introduction schedules for any new products or any additions or modifications to our existing products, and these products may not achieve market acceptance. In addition, we may not be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. We may be unable to make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. As a result of the sale of our universal remote control and secured transaction processor businesses to Maxim and UEI, we significantly reduced our engineering, research and development and operational capabilities. This will limit our ability to pursue multiple developmental stage projects simultaneously and may lengthen our product development lifecycles and may have other unforeseen negative consequences to our business. There can be no assurances that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change and heightened competition in many markets. The industry consists of major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the semiconductor industry. Our current and future products compete with, or may compete with, products offered by Atmel, Cypress Semiconductor, Microchip, Freescale, Renasas, Samsung, and ST Microelectronics, among others. Some of our principal products, such as the Z80 microprocessor, are licensed by our competitors, or are in the public domain, and can be manufactured and sold to our customers by our competitors, possibly with added features or at lower prices than we charge. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including: 14 our ability to design and manufacture new products that implement new technologies including our 8 and 16-bit microcontroller based product families; our ability to protect our products by effectively utilizing intellectual property laws; our product quality, reliability, ease of use and price; the diversity of our product line and feature sets within our products; our efficiency of production; our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; the availability of subcontractors for the wafer fabrication, assembly and test of our products; the pace at which customers incorporate our devices into their products; and the success of our competitors' products and general economic conditions. The sale of our universal remote control and secured transaction processor businesses to Maxim and UEI exposes us to liabilities that are difficult to assess. In connection with the sale of our universal remote control and secured transaction processor businesses to Maxim and UEI, we indemnified Maxim and UEI for losses that may result from inaccuracies in our representations and warranties in the acquisition agreement and our failure to fulfill certain obligations in the acquisition agreement. $3.1 million of the purchase price was placed into escrow to cover any such losses. Furthermore, our indemnification obligations for losses related to certain representations and warranties in the acquisition agreement are unlimited. As a result, potential liabilities are difficult to assess. Disputes over any claimed losses by Maxim and UEI may arise and result in litigation to the Company, which could be costly and cause management distraction. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate and may fail to meet expectations, which may cause the price of our securities to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet expectations, the price of our securities could fluctuate or decline significantly. In addition, significant proportions of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development costs and manufacturing costs. Therefore, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. A variety of factors could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, including: our ability to introduce and sell new products and technologies on a timely basis; any shortage of wafer, test or assembly manufacturing capacity at our third-party vendors; competitive developments, including pricing pressures; technological change and product obsolescence; changes in product mix or fluctuations in manufacturing yields; variability of our customers' product life cycles; the level of orders that we receive and can ship in a quarter and customer order patterns, which may be especially difficult to predict on our newer products; the impact of economic recessions on demand; seasonality; inventory write-downs or asset impairments; restructuring charges; increases in the cost or scarcity of raw materials; and gain or loss of significant customers. 15 We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter, and therefore our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter and shipments from backlog. Our backlog at the beginning of each quarter does not include all sales needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Consequently, we are dependent on obtaining orders to be shipped in the same quarter that the order is received for a significant portion of net sales in that quarter. Moreover, customers may reschedule shipments and production difficulties could delay shipments. Accordingly, we have limited visibility into future product shipments and our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Average selling prices in the semiconductor industry typically decline over time, which directly affects our revenue and margins. >Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry have decreased over the life of any particular product. To the extent that our products achieve market acceptance, competitors typically seek to offer competitive products or embark on discount pricing strategies. We have in the past and may in the future be required to reduce selling prices in response to competition. From time to time, technology and manufacturing changes have the impact of lower average selling prices, such as the conversion of hardware to software modems and packaged to die only sales. If we are unable to offset any reductions in the selling prices of our products by introducing new products at higher prices or by reducing our costs, our revenues, gross margins and operating results could be impaired. In addition, if the price at which we can sell products in our inventory declines below the cost of such products, we may be required to write down the value of such inventory. A significant amount of our revenues comes from relatively few distributors, and any decrease of revenues from these customers and distributors, or the loss of their business, could significantly harm our financial results. Historically we have been, and we expect to continue to be, dependent on a relatively small number of distributors for a significant portion of our revenues. We depend on third-party distributors to market and sell our products, and these third-party distributors collectively accounted for approximately 79%, 78% and 75% of our net sales of continuing operations in each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007, respectively. In addition, our five largest distributors accounted for approximately 68% of our net sales of continuing operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, 66% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and 63% of our net sales of continuing operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. One distributor accounted for approximately 42% of our net sales of continuing operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, 37% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and 34% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. Our distributors decide whether to include our products among those that they sell, and they may carry and sell product lines that are competitive with ours. Because our distributors are not required to make a specified minimum level of purchases from us, we cannot be sure that they will prioritize selling our products. We also rely on our distributors to accurately report to us on a timely basis their sales of our products and provide certain support services to our customers. Our inability to obtain accurate and timely reports and to successfully manage these relationships could materially adversely affect our business and financial reports. Our distributors may not continue to effectively market, sell or support our products. Our North American distributor could emphasize competing products, and we may lose some of our customers as a result. In October 2002, we engaged Future Electronics ("Future") as our exclusive full-service distributor in North America. Additionally, Future provides distributor support to us in Europe and Asia on a non-exclusive basis. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 Future sales on continuing operations were approximately $15.2 million, or 42% of net sales, $16.4 million, or 37% of net sales and $19.7 million, or 34% of net sales, respectively. Future distributes products of our competition that may directly compete with our product offerings. If Future chooses to promote those products over our products, our operating results could be harmed significantly. In addition, if Future were to terminate our distribution agreement, we could experience a period of significant interruption of our business while we obtained other distribution channels. We depend on relatively few major customers for a substantial portion of our sales. Our ten largest customers, excluding our distributors, accounted for approximately 18% of our net sales for continuing operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, 18% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and 20% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007, we had no direct customers that accounted for more than 6% of our net sales, respectively. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 16 March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007, we had one distributor that accounted for 42%, 37% and 34% of our net sales, respectively. Concentration of net sales to particular customers may change from period to period, but we expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues in any particular period for the foreseeable future. We have very few long-term contracts with our customers, and, like us, our customers typically compete in cyclical industries. We routinely purchase inventory based on customers' estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. Thus, our customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or to alter their purchasing patterns on short notice, particularly because substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order or sales order acknowledgment basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments. Any of our large customers may choose to exit the business we supply, or partner with, or acquire product from our competitors. Should this occur, our results of operations would likely be harmed. The loss of one or more major customers or any reduction, delay or cancellation of orders by any of these customers or our failure to market successfully to new customers, could result in a significant reduction in net sales during one or more periods, excess inventory or write-downs of inventory. Our revenue may decline if customers for whom we are sole source providers seek alternative sources of supply. We serve as the sole (or primary) source provider for some of our direct customers. Those customers may choose to reduce their dependence on us by seeking second sources of supply, which could reduce our revenue. To remain a sole (or primary) source provider, we must continue to demonstrate to our customers that we have adequate alternate sources for components, that we maintain adequate alternatives for production and that we can deliver value added products on a timely basis. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business with countries outside the United States that could impair our results of operations. Approximately 60 - 62% of our net sales for continuing operations for each of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, were made to countries outside the United States. These sales to non-U.S. customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. We maintain significant operations, or rely on a number of contract manufacturers, in the Philippines, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand, India and other locations in Asia. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to, or arise from, operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include: economic and political instability; changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; transportation delays; power supply shortages and shutdowns; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems; existence of language barriers and cultural distinctions; acts of God, including floods, typhoons and earthquakes; taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; and other uncertainties relating to the administration of, or changes in, or new interpretation of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In addition, our activities outside the United States are subject to risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchanges rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. While our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate fluctuations, and such fluctuations could harm our operating results materially. 17 The risks inherent in our international operations have been increased by the threat of terrorist attacks. These attacks, coupled with an international military response, have created an uncertain economic environment, and we cannot predict the impact of these political threats or any related military action, on our customers or our business. We have had a history of losses, and we may not be profitable in the future. We have had a history of losses since the one-time gain on extinguishment of debt and fresh-start adjustments in 2002. We may not be profitable in the future. We depend on key personnel, and the loss of our current personnel or our failure to hire and retain additional personnel could harm our business. We depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical and managerial personnel. We believe that our future success in developing marketable products and achieving a competitive position will depend in large part on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, executive, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in Northern California, where our headquarters are located, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Our failure to recruit and retain necessary technical, executive, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel could harm our business and our ability to obtain new customers and develop new products. In addition, our history of losses and our 2002 bankruptcy reorganization could impair our ability to recruit and retain employees. We do not have employment contracts with any of our executive officers. We have recently received unsolicited proposals to acquire our company. Our ability to recruit and retain key personnel may be negatively impacted by uncertainties relating to potential future changes in the ownership and control of our company. For a portion of our employee incentives, we issue common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at time of the grant and that are subject to vesting. At times, our stock price has declined, reducing the effectiveness of these incentives. We may fail to protect our proprietary rights, and the cost of protecting those rights, whether we are successful or not, may harm our ability to compete. The extent and value of our intellectual property is necessarily uncertain, and our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be successful. Despite our precautions, a third party may copy or otherwise obtain our devices or technology without authorization, requiring patent litigation to enforce our rights. Patent litigation is, by its nature, expensive and unpredictable. If litigated, one or more of our patents may be found invalid or unenforceable or to have claims of such narrow scope as to be of little economic value. Third parties may design around our patents. Third parties may independently develop technology similar to our trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries where we have patent and trademark rights may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Additionally, our pending and future patent applications should not be relied upon as they may not issue as patents, and even if they do issue, such future patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful economic or competitive value. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation may be unsuccessful and could require us to incur substantial costs and divert significant valuable resources, including the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may harm our business materially. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, both defensive and offensive. In addition to the Microchip lawsuit described elsewhere, from time to time we have received, and may in the future receive, communications from other third parties asserting that a product offered by us, or an aspect of our business, infringes a patent held by the other third party and/or requires a license thereto. With respect to those other third party communications that are currently pending, we believe, after having consulted with counsel, that either (i) we have meritorious defenses, (ii) based on license terms previously offered to us or typically available in the industry, we can obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or (iii) we can modify our products to avoid such rights, but if this is not the case, we may be 18 sued and assessed damages for past infringement. Indeed, licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to the infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our devices. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. The cost of defending against patent infringement or other intellectual property litigation, in terms of management time and attention, legal fees and product delays, could be substantial, whatever the outcome. If any patent or other intellectual property claims against us are successful, we may be prohibited from using the technologies subject to these claims, and if we are unable to obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology, or design new technology to avoid infringement, we could be prohibited from using or selling the infringing products or technologies and be required to pay substantial damages. Such a result could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be forced to spend significant time and money on products that contain, or are rumored to contain, design defects or errors. Because the design and production process for semiconductors is highly complex, we may produce products whose design deviates from published specifications. In addition, one or more of our products may be found to contain production defects after we have already shipped such products. These production defects could be caused by either raw materials or errors in the production process. If errors or production defects are discovered after we have already shipped one or more of our products in volume, we could be materially adversely affected in one or more of the following ways: replacements or recalls could impose substantial costs on us; rumors, false or otherwise, may be circulated by the press and other media, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products; and customers or end users may file suits, or assert other legal claims against us, alleging damages caused by defective products or errors in products. If we do not successfully defend such suits, we could be required to pay substantial damages. Even if we prevail in suits filed by customers or end users, we may be required to expend significant funds in defense. Changes in technologies or consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. As a result of technological changes, from time to time our customers change the design of their products so as not to include our products, which may have a negative impact on our net sales. Because we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of our customers, changes in the designs of their products can have sudden and significant impacts on our sales. Reduced sales due to customer design changes have harmed us in the past, and additional customer design changes could result in lower revenues in the future. We may forecast the future demand for our products incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Since we must order products and build inventory substantially in advance of product shipments, we may forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. The ability of our customers to reschedule or cancel orders without significant penalty could adversely affect our liquidity, as we may be unable to adjust our purchases from our wafer suppliers to match any customer changes and cancellations. As part of our business strategy, we maintain a substantial inventory of sorted wafers in a die bank but limit our investment in finished goods. We may have adequate wafer inventory to meet customer needs but may be unable to finish the manufacturing process prior to the delivery date specified by the customer. Demand for our products is volatile and customers often place orders with short lead times. Our inventory may not be reduced by sufficient demand of customer orders and in the future we may produce excess quantities of our products. It is our policy to fully write down all inventories that we do not expect to be sold in a reasonable period of time. We may suffer reductions in values of our inventories in the future and we may be unable to liquidate our inventory at acceptable prices. To the extent we have excess inventories of particular products, our operating results could be adversely affected by charges to cost of revenues that we would be required to recognize due to significant reductions in demand for our products or rapid declines in the market value of our inventory, resulting in inventory write downs or other adverse consequences. We have implemented measures to consolidate our activities and/or significantly reduce our costs, and we may be required to implement additional measures depending upon our future revenues and operating results. 19 In the past, we have implemented measures designed to consolidate our activities and/or reduce our costs, including during the three years ended March 31, 2009. These cost reduction efforts have included: transferring our production test operations currently performed in our Philippines facility to third party suppliers; consolidation of our research and development activities including the closure of design and development sites in Shanghai, China and Seattle, Washington; restructuring our manufacturing operations, which has included closing and subsequently outsourcing all of our wafer fabrication, assembly, wafer test and final test operations and consolidating probe and final test operations, as well as certain customer service and accounting functions at our Philippines site; refocusing our strategic priorities; reallocating personnel and responsibilities to better utilize human resources; reducing our worldwide workforce; and instituting temporary office and facility shutdowns. Cost reduction measures may not increase our efficiency or lead to profitability. In the past, we have reduced our spending on research and development. Reducing research and development spending could harm our ability to introduce new products in the future. If our revenue or operating results significantly decline in the future, we may be required to institute further cost reduction measures. From time to time, we evaluate our strategic alternatives with respect to our facilities and we may take actions which may result in the occurrence of accounting charges. Some or all of these charges may be non-cash. Such charges would have a negative impact on our GAAP profitability and may have a negative impact on our cash balance. As a result of our recent disposition of assets, costs associated with being a public company will constitute a larger portion of our overheard. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. As a result of the sale of our universal remote control and secured transaction processor businesses to Maxim and UEI, our financial compliance and legal costs will necessarily constitute a larger portion of our overhead making profitability difficult to attain. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on us. Until 2005, we operated wafer fabrication activities in our Nampa, Idaho facilities. Until February 2006, we owned an 8-inch wafer manufacturing facility and until April 2007, we owned a 5-inch wafer manufacturing facility. Our manufacturing processes required us to use various hazardous substances, and, as a result, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing the storage, use, emission, discharge and disposal of, and human exposure to, such substances. In particular, the process of manufacturing silicon wafers used large amounts of corrosive and other hazardous chemicals and huge quantities of distilled, de-ionized water. Any failure by us to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that could materially harm our business, have a materially adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations, including under laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Subsequent to the ceasing of wafer manufacturing activities in these facilities, the facilities were cleaned and prepared for sale and the equipment was decommissioned and sold. We no longer conduct manufacturing activities in Nampa, Idaho. With respect to environmental remediation, we could incur substantial costs for the clean up of contaminated properties, either those we own or operate or to which we have sent wastes in the past. Under certain of these laws and regulations, current or previous owners or operators of property may be liable for cleanup costs and other damages without regard to whether they knew of, or caused, the contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate, contamination could materially adversely affect the value of, and the ability to transfer or encumber, our property. In addition, we may be required to incur significant expense in connection with governmental investigation of environmental or employee health and safety matters. We may engage in acquisitions and other forms of business combinations or partnerships that could materially adversely affect our operating results, dilute our stockholders' equity, or cause us to incur additional debt or assume contingent liabilities. 20 To increase our business and maintain our competitive position, we have made acquisitions in the past and may do so in the future. Acquisitions and other forms of business combinations or partnerships involve a number of risks that could harm our business and result in the acquired business not performing as expected, including: insufficient experience with technologies and markets in which the acquired or combined business is involved, which may be necessary to successfully operate and integrate the business; problems integrating the acquired or combined operations, personnel, technologies or products with the existing business and products; diversion of management time and attention from our core business to the acquired or combined business; potential failure to retain key technical, management, sales and other personnel of the acquired or combined business; difficulties in retaining relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired or combined business; and subsequent impairment of the acquired or combined assets, including intangible assets. In addition, acquisitions and other forms of business combinations or partnerships could require investment of significant financial resources and may require us to obtain additional equity financing, which may dilute our stockholders' equity, or to incur additional indebtedness. Acts of war or terrorism could harm our business. The long-term effects of potential terrorist attacks on the world economy and our business are unknown, but could be material to our business. Terrorist acts or acts of war, whether in the United States or abroad, also could cause damage or disruption to our business, our suppliers, our freight carriers, or our customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), or failure to maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures, could harm our business and operating results and/or result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Change in fiscal calendar and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 report. On December 29, 2005, our Board of Directors unanimously adopted resolutions to change our fiscal year end from December 31 to March 31. We revised our fiscal year so that our audit work could be performed during non-peak periods with our independent registered public accountants, which has resulted in and we believe will result in cost savings over the long-term. During the on-going reviews of our control environment and our internal controls, as part of our review for the three-month period ended December 31, 2005, we identified deficiencies in our information technology controls, including the need to better segregate duties as it relates to the use of our Oracle Information Systems modules and to improve our General Computing Controls compliance and documentation. We have completed a thorough review of our control environment and have made improvements to our information technology controls in the areas where these deficiencies were identified. We believe we have adequately remediated our information technology environment and controls and results of our testing have not uncovered any errors. Our auditors have not performed a formal review of our control environment and it is possible that material weaknesses or deficiencies exist. Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has previously required us to make changes to some of our corporate governance practices. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of a company's internal controls over financial reporting and also a report by a company's independent registered public accounting firm assessing the effectiveness of such company's internal controls over financial reporting. The Securities and Exchange Commission 21 extended the dates for initial compliance with the internal control reporting requirements mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for filers that do not meet the definition of either an "accelerated filer" or a "large accelerated filer." Under the extension, a company that does not meet the definition of either an "accelerated filer" or a "large accelerated filer," as these terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, is not required to comply with the requirement to provide the auditor's attestation report on internal auditing over financial reporting until it files an annual report for its first fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2009. The measurement criteria for determining filing status, was based on our market capitalization as of September 29, 2007, at which time, our market capitalization was below the defined threshold for accelerated filers. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we did not meet the definition of either an "accelerated filer" or a "large accelerated filer," as those terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purposes of compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Thus, under the extension, beginning with our fiscal year 2010, we will be required to provide an auditor's attestation report on internal controls over financial reporting, which will substantially increase our general and administrative expenses. Changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income in future periods. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; increases in expense not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process R&D and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes; and challenges to the transfer pricing policies related to our global supply chain management structure. At any given time, the Company is likely to have multiple year examinations open with federal, state, and foreign taxing authorities. If the taxing authorities were to successfully challenge a material tax position, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. In addition, proposals for changes in U.S. tax laws that may be adopted in the future, including recently announced proposals which would substantially reduce or eliminate our ability to defer the income generated by the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, could subject us to higher taxes or result in changes to tax law provisions that currently provide favorable tax treatment Changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States may materially adversely affect our reported financial results or otherwise harm our business. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Changes in our business conditions could result in impairment of our goodwill. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.142, "Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142), the Company must perform at least an annual testing of the Company's stated value of its net assets including goodwill and other intangible assets in relation to the implied fair market value of the Company. If the Company's market capitalization or fair market value declines, we may be required to record financial adjustments to the stated values of our goodwill and other intangible assets, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our year end testing analysis of market capitalization as compared to our book value indicated no impairment in our Goodwill. Analysis of our continuing businesses estimated future cash flows resulted in a write off of the remaining balance of the intangibles asset value as of March 31, 2009. Our Goodwill had an aggregated net book value of $2.2 million at March 31, 2009. 22 Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in control that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and prohibiting stockholders from taking action by written consent. In addition, provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Our directors, named executive officers and our two largest stockholders, who beneficially own approximately 36% of our common stock in the aggregate, may have interests that conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our directors and named executive officers, together with our largest stockholders, UBS Willow Management, L.L.C., and funds managed by Capital Research and Management Company, beneficially owned approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, as of March 31, 2009. As a result of their ownership and positions, our directors and named executive officers, together with UBS Willow Management and Capital Research and Management Company, collectively are able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. The investment objectives of our largest institutional stockholders may differ from those of our other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 