Risk Factors." Although we believe that the expectations in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, and performance achievements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations, and we disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements for subsequent events or to explain why actual results differ unless otherwise required by law. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise specified as a forward-looking statement, the information contained in this report is historical in nature and speaks as of the date of this report unless otherwise clearly indicated. We disclaim any obligation to update this information for subsequent events. Period Comparisons Effective December 29, 2005, we changed our fiscal year end from December 31 to March 31. Our interim results are based on fiscal quarters of thirteen weeks in duration ending on the last Saturday of each calendar quarter, with the exception of the last quarter, which ends on March 31 beginning in fiscal 2006. The operating results for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of results for any subsequent period or the full fiscal year. Based in San Jose, California, we were incorporated in California in September 1973 and merged with a subsidiary of Exxon (which subsidiary changed its name to ZiLOG, Inc.) in November 1981. We were reacquired by an affiliate of Warburg Pincus and Management in 1989 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1997. We were acquired by an affiliate of Texas Pacific Group in 1998 and we were reorganized in bankruptcy in 2002. In this report, "ZiLOG," "the Company," "our," "us," "we," and similar expressions refer to ZiLOG, Inc. and its subsidiaries. However, when these expressions are used throughout this report in connection with ZiLOG, Inc.'s reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code, they are referring only to the parent company, ZiLOG, Inc., and not to any of its subsidiaries. EZ80ACCLAIM!, CRIMZON, Zatara, ZiLOG, Z8, Z80, eZ80, Z8 ENCORE!, Encore!XP and Zneo are registered trademarks of ZiLOG, Inc., in the United States and in other countries. ARM is a registered trademark of ARM Limited in the EU and other countries. Other product and or service names mentioned herein may be trademarks of the companies with which they are associated. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS BUSINESS Our Business We are a fabless semiconductor supplier of microprocessor and microcontroller semiconductor products. A microcontroller is a computer-on-a-chip that is optimized to control electronic devices, such as motors, remote controllers and user interfaces on appliances. A microcontroller typically includes a central processing unit, non-volatile program memory, random access memory for data storage and various peripheral capabilities. The microcontroller is offered as a complete solution because it incorporates application-specific software provided by the customer and may include specialized peripheral device controllers and internal or external non-volatile memory components to enable the storage and access of additional program software. ZiLOG was founded in 1973 by Federico Faggin who co-invented the microprocessor. We design, develop, test and market a portfolio of these devices for a variety of applications used in consumer electronics, home appliances, security systems, point-of-sale terminals, personal computer peripherals, personal health and medical products. We introduced our first products in the mid-1970's and have since established a globally recognized brand. We sell our devices indirectly through contract manufacturers or directly to a diverse customer base of Original Equipment Manufacturers ("OEMs") and Original Design Manufacturers ("ODMs") for general purpose use or for use in application specific end markets. Additionally, we sell our devices to distributors who generally provide logistical and post sales support to these customers. We continue to invest in the development of new microcontroller and microprocessor products, including; derivatives of our Z8 Encore!, Z8Encore!XP, Motor control and eZ80 Acclaim! product families which are designed to incorporate reprogrammable flash memory and enhanced peripherals with features that may allow such functionality as power management, sensing secure transactions and connectivity. We also continue to develop new products, software features and expanded database coverage for our universal remote control solutions. Recently, we announced our new line of Crimzon products with embedded flash capabilities for this market. Additionally, we continue to expand our product offering of integrated 32-bit ARM based microprocessors. This Zatara family of products provides secured transaction capabilities in a single chip solution and is initially focused on the point-of-sale market. Our Industry Microcontroller and microprocessor devices have been incorporated into a wide variety of products in markets including consumer electronics, home appliances, security systems, point-of-sale terminals and personal computer peripherals, as well as industrial and automotive applications. Microcontrollers are generally segmented by word length, which is measured in bits ranging from 4-bit through 32-bit architectures. Although 4-bit microcontrollers are relatively inexpensive, they generally lack the minimum performance and features required for product differentiation and are typically used only to produce basic functionality in products. While traditional 16 and 32-bit architectures are typically higher performance, they can be too expensive for many high-volume embedded control applications, typically costing two to four times the cost of an 8-bit microcontroller. Manufacturers will choose the appropriate microcontroller or microprocessor based on cost, performance and functionality requirements. Microcontrollers are used broadly in over 100 different market categories for specific and general purpose applications. Analysts estimate the 8-bit market to be in excess of $4 billion per year with the fastest growing element of that market being embedded flash. We believe that 8-bit microcontrollers are generally perceived as the most cost-effective embedded control solution for high volume requirements. High- volume microcontrollers available today are Read Only Memory ("ROM") or One-Time Programmable ("OTP"), which typically require longer delays and greater costs in order to implement customer application code changes as compared to embedded flash with reprogrammable capabilities. ROM and OTP products generally result in longer lead times for delivery of such microcontrollers. In addition to delayed product introduction, these longer lead times can result in potential inventory obsolescence and disruptions to customers' factory production when changes in the application code are required by the customer. To address some of these issues, suppliers may offer OTP-based microcontrollers that can be configured by the customer in the customer's manufacturing line, thus minimizing lead-time and inventory risks if the customer's application code requires changes. Furthermore, flash memory offers the flexibility of in-product re-programmability. While these flash-based microcontrollers were initially expensive relative to ROM and OTP-based microcontrollers, manufacturing technology has evolved over the past years to the point where the premium for flash microcontrollers over ROM and OTP-based microcontrollers can be minimal thereby making flash based microcontrollers the fastest growing technology segment in the 8-bit microcontroller market 4 The 32-bit market for our products is large and diverse. Today our 32-bit Zatara family of products focus on faster speeds, more complex integration and more advanced security requirements than our 8-bit portfolio of products. The current 32-bit products we offer are application specific standard products designed for the secured transaction point-of-sale market. As our development continues with ARM based cores, including ARM 9 and Cortex, we expect to broaden our product offerings to support adjacent markets as well as traditional markets where we have experience and which require and can afford greater levels of integrated technologies. Our Strategy The key elements of our strategy are: Deliver Complete Solutions to Our Customers We are focused on providing advanced semiconductor solutions that assist our customers in adding functionality and enhancing the performance of their products. We currently serve three major markets with our product portfolio: 8 and 16-bit microcontrollers, universal remote control solutions and 32-bit secured transaction microprocessors Partner with Third Party Manufacturers to Leverage Scale Our manufacturing strategy is to utilize third-party wafer foundries to manufacture our devices. We believe outsourcing the manufacturing process enables us to access advanced technologies and reduce our manufacturing costs. This strategy allows us to focus greater resources on product design, systems and software development and customer support. In line with this strategy, during 2002 and 2004 we closed our wafer manufacturing facilities in Nampa, Idaho, and migrated production of these products to our wafer foundry suppliers. Our new products are sourced from TSMC and UMC in Taiwan and our classic products are sourced from X-FAB in Lubbock, Texas. Products and Applications We design, develop, and market a broad portfolio of micrologic semiconductor devices for embedded control and communication applications used in consumer electronics, home appliances, security systems, point-of-sale terminals, personal computer peripherals and industrial and automotive applications. Our products offer our customers the ability to integrate peripheral functions (such as network connectivity, timers, serial communication, analog to digital conversion, infrared data transmission and display drivers) on our micrologic devices. These additional functions enhance the capabilities of the customer's end product, which can lower their overall systems costs. These peripherals incorporate functionality, which may otherwise be found in a separate chip, on the printed circuit board to which the micrologic device is attached. We combine different microprocessors, memories and peripheral functions to create devices specifically tailored to meet the requirements of targeted vertical markets. Customers, Sales and Marketing Introduction To market our products, we utilize a well-trained, direct and distribution sales force, a customer-centric website, technical documentation that includes product specifications and application notes, development tools and reference designs, sales promotional materials, targeted advertising and public relations activities, and involvement in key trade shows and technical conferences in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Our direct sales force and our sales representatives cover various geographic locations in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Sales Process Through direct sales and distributors we have developed relationships with customers, including large OEMs, ODM's and end users. By collaborating with customers in an interactive product design and development process, we have been able to establish long-standing relationships, which help us solidify our customer base and define our next generation products. 5 We work closely with our customers in identifying opportunities for the customer to pursue end product designs using our devices. The customer's decision to design an end product using our devices is based upon technical and financial factors, including microprocessor performance, memory, peripheral options, pre-existing customer relationships, financial stability, pricing and technology roadmaps. Typically, a customer's product architects and design engineers will use our proprietary development tools over a period of many months, or longer, to design an end product and test the design using our devices before making a decision. We classify a design win as the point at which the customer has placed orders to purchase a minimum level of product. Once we have achieved a design win, we deliver a limited production of the device to our customer. Product prototypes are then created and tested. If the decision is made to produce the product for sale, we will begin to receive full production orders over time. The entire cycle from design win to full production typically takes between 12 and 18 months, although it may take much longer. After a design win is achieved, our sales are generally made pursuant to short-term cancelable purchase orders that can be cancelled upon 30 to 60 days notice. As a result, design wins are not necessarily an accurate or reliable indication of future net sales. Direct Sales Force Our direct sales force focuses on the Americas, Europe and Asia. We have offices located in the metropolitan areas of San Jose, Hong Kong, London, Munich, Seoul, Shenzhen (China), Singapore, Taipei and Toronto. For each of the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006, the percentage of net sales derived from sales to direct customer accounts is 44%, including one direct customer, SMK, which represented 11%, 15% and 10% of net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006, respectively. Additionally, from time to time we engage sales representative firms to further augment our own direct sales force. We provide direct customer support through our field application engineers, who are located in our sales offices around the world and work directly with local customers in close consultation with our factory-based technical specialists. Field application engineers typically develop technology expertise in a market segment that is most prominent in their geographic areas. These engineers provide significant aid to the customer throughout the design process. Customer support is provided locally or through our global support organization in Manila, Philippines. Distribution Partners We entered into a distributor agreement with Future Electronics effective October 23, 2002. This agreement provides that Future Electronics will be our exclusive full-service distributor within North America and will also serve as a non-exclusive distributor for the rest of the world. Either party may terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior written notice to the other party. Future Electronics is a private Canadian-based company with an extensive and well-integrated international distribution infrastructure. Their ability to cover a broad spectrum of market opportunities, especially in embedded flash-based products, continues to provide significant value and opportunities for our flash product portfolio. Future Electronics' value-added services to us have not increased our costs, and include a significant number of sales representatives focused on our business, seminars and workshops to train design engineers about our products, direct mail advertising, collateral materials and web site pages dedicated to our products. For each of the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006, the percentage of net sales through our distribution channel is 56% including Future Electronics which accounted for approximately 25%, 23% and 24% of net sales, respectively. Additionally, we use various distributors to support both our Asia and European markets. Distributors in these regions generally specialize based on the country serviced and have rights of return and/or price protection on unsold merchandise held by them. We have no exclusive arrangements in these regions and have distributor agreements for the supply and support of product sales to their customers. Manufacturing and Sourcing Our manufacturing strategy is to utilize third-party wafer foundries to manufacture our devices. We believe outsourcing manufacturing enables us to access advanced process technology and reduce our research and development and manufacturing costs. We source our wafer requirements from third-party foundries located in Taiwan and the United States. Generally, wafers for our new products are supplied by TSMC and UMC and our classic products are provided by X-FAB in Lubbock, Texas. Our product package assembly operations are performed by subcontractors located throughout Asia including Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. Wafer test and final product testing is conducted at our test and global support facility located in Manila, Philippines. Beginning in fiscal 2009, a significant portion of our production test activities will be supplied by third party manufacturing partners. 6 The SGS International Certification Services AG of Zurich, Switzerland granted an ISO 9001 certification to our Philippines test facility. ISO certifications reflect the stringent quality standards to which all of our products are manufactured. We believe that these certifications enhance the reputation and quality of our products. Research and Development Our research and development expenditures have been focused on the design and development of our 8 and 16-bit embedded flash-based microcontrollers, including our Z8 Encore! Z8 Encore XP, Z8 Encore MC, ZNEO and eZ80 Acclaim! families of products, our Crimzon family of devices for the universal remote control market and our portfolio of 32-bit ARM based products for the secured transactions point-of-sale market. Research and development expenditures were $16.5 million, $20.5 million and $21.0 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, March 31, 2007, and March 31, 2006, representing 25%, 25% and 27% of net sales, respectively. During the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, March 31, 2007,and March 31, 2006, our research and development expenditures were focused on; i) our embedded flash products including our family of 8 pin flash-based 8-bit microcontrollers, ii) new devices and software features for our Crimzon line of consumer solution products concentrated in the universal remote control market segment and iii) our 32-bit ARM based family of products, which are initially focused on the secured transactions point-of-sale market. Our research and development expenses decreased in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007 as a result of our decision in April, 2007 to consolidate our research and development sites, whereby we subsequently closed our Seattle, Washington and Shanghai, China facilities. We currently have approximately 161 employees in engineering focused on hardware and circuitry design, software development including database capture and development tools. Our development activities are performed in the U.S. at our Meridian, Idaho and San Jose, California facilities. Our software design and support activities are performed primarily in our Bangalore, India facility. Competition The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and is characterized by price erosion and the rapid technological changes in many markets. The industry consists of major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies are also expected to increase their participation in the semiconductor market. We compete on a global basis with other micrologic device manufacturers who target the same specific market segments. We believe the primary basis for competition include: price, technological sophistication, customer relationships, support tools, familiarity with micrologic architecture and existing customer investment in system software based on a particular architecture. In many instances, our competitors have similar competitive strengths to us and have significantly more resources than we do. Many of our competitors are much larger than we are, with broad product offerings in many sectors. Our current and future products compete with, or may compete with, products offered by Atmel, Cypress Semiconductor, Freescale, Microchip, Renasas, Samsung, STMicroelectronics and Universal Electronics, Inc., among others. Backlog Our total backlog of cancelable customer orders was $8.7 million at March 31, 2008, $10.0 million at March 31, 2007 and $17.3 million at March 31, 2006. Our sales are generally made pursuant to short-term cancelable purchase orders that are cancelable upon 30 to 60 days notice rather than long-term contracts. As a result, our backlog may not be an accurate measure of net sales or operating results for any period. Additionally, during times of economic downturn there tends to be excess capacity in the marketplace, driving shorter lead time expectations which often results in a higher percentage of book-ship (or turns) business in the period. Patents and Licenses We currently have 200 U.S. and non-U.S. patents as of March 31, 2008, which expire between fiscal years 2009 and 2026. We employ a combination of patents, copyrights, mask-work rights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect the proprietary aspects of our business and devices. In addition to our own intellectual property, we license technologies and products from others, as necessary, to provide second sources for standard products or to obtain rights to cores, cells or other technology. We often enter into agreements to incorporate into our designs the 7 intellectual property of third parties. Such agreements may impose certain obligations or limitations on our use or disclosure of, such intellectual property or the enforcement of our own intellectual property. We hold numerous U.S. and foreign patents and have additional U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. We also hold numerous mask works, copyrights to protect proprietary software employed in our devices and trademarks. We intend to continue investing in the protection of our intellectual property through the filing of patent applications and, if appropriate, the registration of copyrights, mask-works and trademarks. Nevertheless, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative abilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize product developments. Thus, we believe that the loss of any one of our patents or trade secrets would not materially affect our core business. The extent and value of our intellectual property is necessarily uncertain. While we intend to protect our intellectual property rights vigorously, our efforts may not be successful. Despite our precautions, a third party may copy, or otherwise obtain, our devices or technology without authorization, requiring patent litigation to enforce our rights. Patent litigation is, by its nature, expensive and unpredictable. If litigated, one or more of our patents may be found invalid or unenforceable or to have claims of such narrow scope as to be of little economic value. Third parties may design around our patents. Third parties may independently develop technology similar to our trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries where we have patent and trademark rights may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Additionally, our pending and future patent applications should not be relied upon as they may not issue as patents, and even if they do issue, such future patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful economic or competitive value. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, both defensive and offensive. From time to time we have received, and may in the future receive communications from third parties asserting that a product offered by us, or an aspect of our business, infringes a patent held by the third party and/or require a license thereto. With respect to those third party communications that are currently pending but which have not yet been filed as a lawsuit, we believe, after having consulted with counsel, that either (i) we have meritorious defenses, (ii) based on license terms previously offered to us or typically available in the industry, we can obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or (iii) we can modify our products to avoid such rights, but in any case, we may be sued and assessed damages for past infringement. Indeed, licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to such claims of infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our devices. Should it become necessary to engage in litigation to defend against such assertions, such litigation could be expensive and time consuming. There can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters would not have a material adverse affect on our business. On August 11, 2005, Microchip Technology, Inc. ("Microchip") filed a patent infringement claim against us in the U.S. District Court of Arizona (case number CV05-2406-PHX-MHM). Microchip alleges that we have infringed, and currently infringe, its patents numbered 5,847,450, 6,696,316 and 6,483,183. Microchip claims that unspecified products of ours, including the Z8 Encore! XP 4K Series of products, infringe these patents and is seeking preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, unspecified damages and costs, including attorneys' fees. We filed a response to the claims on September 15, 2005 generally denying the claims and challenging the validity of the patents. On January 10, 2006, we filed a request for patent re-examination with the U.S. PTO, which was granted in February and March 2006 for all 3 patents. On April 11, 2008, we received a notice that all of Microchip's claims under these three patents have been rejected by the U.S. PTO. Notwithstanding this favorable ruling, because Microchip has a right to appeal the patent office's decision, we do not believe it is feasible to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of this litigation at this time. We believe we have meritorious defenses and will defend ourselves against these claims vigorously. We may incur substantial expenses in our defense against these claims. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial monetary liabilities and be required to change our business practices. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. On December 1, 2006, we filed a patent infringement claim against Altera Corporation ("Altera") and Actel Corporation ("Actel") in the U.S. District Court of California (civil docket number 4:06-cv-07388-SBA). We allege that Altera and Actel have infringed, and currently infringe, our patent numbered 4,670,749 which we believe to be the fundamental patent for programmable logic. We claim that Altera's and Actel's products infringe these patents and we are seeking unspecified damages and costs, including attorneys' fees. Actel settled their case with us on June 11, 2007 for an undisclosed amount. The case against Altera is currently on stay pending reexamination of the patent in suit. On May 23, 2008, Altera Corporation ("Altera") filed a patent infringement claim against us in the U.S. District Court of Texas (civil action number 2:08-CV-218). Altera alleges that we have infringed, and currently infringe, its patents numbered 6,097,211, 6,147,511 and 6,314,550. Altera claims that unspecified products of ours, including the eZ80 and Zneo series of products, infringe these patents and is seeking preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, unspecified damages and costs, including attorneys' fees. We do not believe it is feasible to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of this litigation at this time. We will defend ourselves against these claims vigorously. We may incur substantial expenses in our defense 8 against these claims. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial monetary liabilities and be required to change our business practices. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. The cost of defending against patent infringement or other intellectual property litigation, in terms of management time and attention, legal fees and product delays, could be substantial, whatever the outcome. If any patent or other intellectual property claims against us are successful, we may be prohibited from using the technologies subject to these claims, and if we are unable to obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology, or design new technology to avoid infringement, we could be prohibited from using or selling the infringing products or technologies and be required to pay substantial damages. Such a result could have a material adverse effect on our business. Conversely, we also enforce our intellectual property rights where appropriate, consistent with business considerations. The exercise of this right to protect our intellectual property in a patent may result in an offender challenging the validity of a patent we seek in order to protect and/or develop its own patent infringement claims against us. Employees As of March 31, 2008, we had 528 full time employees, comprised of approximately 241 in manufacturing-related activities, 161 in engineering, 58 in sales and marketing and 68 in general and administrative functions, including Finance, HR, IT and facilities, of which a total of 37 are located in our global support facility in Manila, Philippines. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining organization. Environmental Any failure by us to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that could materially harm our business, including under laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Until 2005, we operated wafer fabrication activities in our Nampa, Idaho facilities. Until February 2006, we owned an 8-inch wafer manufacturing facility and until April 2007, we owned a 5-inch wafer manufacturing facility. Our manufacturing processes at these facilities required us to use various hazardous substances, and, as a result, we were subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing the storage, use, emission, discharge and disposal of, and human exposure to, such substances. In particular, the process of manufacturing silicon wafers used large amounts of corrosive and other hazardous chemicals and huge quantities of distilled, de-ionized water. Subsequent to the ceasing of wafer manufacturing activities in these facilities, the facilities were cleaned and prepared for sale and the equipment was decommissioned and sold. We no longer conduct manufacturing activities in Nampa, Idaho. Recently, laws and regulations have been enacted in several European Union member countries, including several jurisdictions in which we operate, restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and holding producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Specifically, the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directives. The RoHS directive prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, mercury, cadmium and chromium, in covered products placed on the market after July 1, 2006. The WEEE directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the European Union to clearly mark the equipment, register with and report to European Union regulators regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to recall and properly dispose of the equipment. Each European Union member country has enacted, or is expected to soon enact, legislation clarifying what is and what is not covered by the WEEE directive in that country. However, there is still some uncertainty in certain European Union countries as to which party involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic equipment will be ultimately held responsible. If we are deemed to be a manufacturer of covered products, we may be required to register as a producer in certain European Union countries, and incur financial responsibility with respect to products sold within the European Union, including products of other manufacturers that have been replaced by our products. We may also incur substantial costs to change our contract partners manufacturing processes, redesign or reformulate, and obtain substitute components for, our products that are deemed covered products under the ROHS directive. If we fail to timely provide RoHS-compliant products, we will not be able to offer our products within the European Union, and we may be subject to civil or criminal liabilities. Similar laws have been proposed and may be enacted in other locations where we sell our products, including various jurisdictions within the United States and China. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and ensure, as appropriate or required, that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. If we fail to timely comply with such laws, we could face sanctions for such noncompliance and our customers 9 further may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to environmental remediation, we could incur substantial costs for the clean up of contaminated properties, either those we own or operate or to which we have sent wastes in the past. Under certain of these laws and regulations, current or previous owners or operators of property may be liable for cleanup costs and other damages without regard to whether they knew of, or caused, the contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate, contamination could materially adversely affect the value of, and the ability to transfer or encumber, our property. In addition, we may be required to incur significant expense in connection with governmental investigation of environmental or employee health and safety matters. Currently, we are not aware of any such actions or notices against us. Available Information The Company's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on the Company's website through www.zilog.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission "SEC". Information contained on our web site is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Alternatively, you may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW. Washington, DC 20549 or access the information on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Additional information regarding operation for the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, you may request a copy of these filings (including exhibits) at no cost by writing us at our principal offices at 6800 Santa Teresa Blvd., San Jose, CA 95119, attention: Investor Relations, or by calling (408)513-1500. 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in the Form 10-K. The risks described below are the ones we deem to be material to our business, but are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business could be harmed materially. We have experienced declines in net sales, and, if we fail to implement our new product strategy, we may continue to experience declines in sales and gross margins. In each of the past five years, our net sales have fluctuated significantly and our future financial results are anticipated to be subject to substantial fluctuations. Our total net sales were $67.2 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, $82.0 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2007 and $78.8 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006. We anticipate that sales of our classic products may continue to decline over time. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our new product strategy, which consists partly of refocusing our business on microcontroller products built around our core 8-bit micrologic architecture, beginning with the Z8 Encore! and eZ80 Acclaim! flash products. Since 2002, we have launched our new series of 8-bit embedded flash microcontrollers, universal remote control solutions and 32-bit Zatara microprocessors. These products typically have a long lead time from design to production, which can range from twelve months to thirty-six months. These new products represented approximately 54% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2008 compared to 45% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2007, and we currently expect the contribution of these products to continue to grow. If we are unable to develop new products in a manner that timely meets changing market requirements, or if we are not able to achieve significant sales of our 8-bit microcontroller products for any reason, our product strategy may fail and our net sales and operating results may continue to decline or not grow as currently expected. In addition, as we introduce new products we experience additional start up costs and unfavorable manufacturing prices due to low volume. In addition, we do not expect margins on our 8-bit embedded flash products to be as strong as those on our classic products. Consequently, the introduction of new products could have a negative impact on our gross margin even if sales from such new products offset declining revenues from our classic products. If we are unable to obtain adequate production capacity or quality, our business will be harmed. We rely on independent third-party foundry manufacturers, including X-FAB, TSMC and UMC, to fabricate wafers for all of our product needs. Industry-wide shortages in foundry capacity could harm our financial results. If we are unable to obtain the requisite foundry capacity to manufacture our products, or if we have to pay higher than anticipated prices to foundries in periods of tight capacity, we may not be able to meet our customers' demand for our products. Any delay in initiating production at third-party foundries, any inability to have new products manufactured at such foundries, or any failure to meet our customers' demands, could damage our relationships with our customers and may decrease our sales. Other significant risks associated with relying on these third-party foundries include: reduced control over the cost of our products, delivery schedules, capacity constraints and product quality; limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our technology; yield or quality issues with the supplier which could result in us being unable to supply product to customers or providing product that does not meet their quality or performance standards; vulnerability to third-party foundries' financial, operations or production difficulties; and the time and cost associated with switching or sourcing alternate foundries. 11 We may require additional capital in the future and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Based on our existing financial plans and forecasts, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our planned capital needs for the next twelve months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our future activities. We may be able to raise these funds by selling securities to the public or selected investors, or by borrowing money. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly, reduce planned capital expenditures and research and development, make selective dispositions of our assets or obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets, or otherwise impair our ability to remain competitive. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for test and information technology and equipment to remain competitive, the failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation of which, could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our capital expenditures were $3.4 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, $2.1 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2007 and $4.2 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006. We may be required to increase our future capital expenditures to meet increased demand. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required, and in the future is likely to continue to require, a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. Even though we outsource a significant amount of our manufacturing, we are required to spend funds on mask designs and process technology improvements to remain competitive. We maintain certain of our own test facilities which have required, and may continue to require, investments in test technology and equipment. We also may incur significant costs to implement new test equipment and information technologies to increase our productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new test or information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our consolidated balance sheets. There can be no assurances that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in test equipment or information technology and equipment. Interruptions in information technology systems could affect our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business, especially between the Philippines and our San Jose, California headquarters. Any significant system or network disruption, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach and energy blackouts, could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We have implemented measures to manage our risks related to such disruptions, but such disruptions could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. If we are unable to prevail in a patent litigation lawsuit we may incur substantial monetary liability and may be required to change our business practices. On August 11, 2005, Microchip Technology, Inc. ("Microchip") filed a patent infringement claim against us in the U.S. District Court of Arizona (case number CV05-2406-PHX-MHM). Microchip alleges that we have infringed, and currently infringe, its patents numbered 5,847,450, 6,696,316 and 6,483,183. Microchip claims that unspecified products of ours, including the Z8 Encore! XP 4K Series of products, infringe these patents and is seeking preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, unspecified damages and costs, including attorneys' fees. We filed a response to the claims on September 15, 2005 generally denying the claims and challenging the validity of the patents. On January 10, 2006, we filed a request for patent re-examination with the U.S. PTO, which was granted in February and March 2006 for all 3 patents. On April 11, 2008, we received a notice that all of Microchip's claims under these three patents have been rejected by the U.S. PTO. Notwithstanding this favorable ruling, because Microchip has a right to appeal the patent office's decision, we do not believe it is feasible to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of this litigation at this time. We believe we have 12 meritorious defenses and will defend ourselves against these claims vigorously. We may incur substantial expenses in our defense against these claims. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial monetary liabilities and be required to change our business practices. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. On December 1, 2006, we filed a patent infringement claim against Altera Corporation ("Altera") and Actel Corporation ("Actel") in the U.S. District Court of California (civil docket number 4:06-cv-07388-SBA). We allege that Altera and Actel have infringed, and currently infringe, our patent numbered 4,670,749 which we believe to be the fundamental patent for programmable logic. We claim that Altera's and Actel's products infringe these patents and are seeking unspecified damages and costs, including attorneys' fees. Actel settled their case with us on June 11, 2007 for an undisclosed amount. The case against Altera is currently on stay pending reexamination of the patent in suit. On May 23, 2008, Altera Corporation ("Altera") filed a patent infringement claim against us in the U.S. District Court of Texas (civil action number 2:08-CV-218). Altera alleges that we have infringed, and currently infringe, its patents numbered 6,097,211, 6,147,511 and 6,314,550. Altera claims that unspecified products of ours, including the eZ80 and Zneo series of products, infringe these patents and is seeking preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, unspecified damages and costs, including attorneys' fees. We do not believe it is feasible to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of this litigation at this time. We will defend ourselves against these claims vigorously. We may incur substantial expenses in our defense against these claims. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial monetary liabilities and be required to change our business practices. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We depend on third-party assemblers throughout Asia, including Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines, and the failure of these third parties to continue to provide services to us on sufficiently favorable terms could harm our business. We use outside contract assemblers in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines for packaging our products. We are also in the process of outsourcing our test operations to third party suppliers and partners in the Philippines and Indonesia. These countries have been subject to political instability and terrorist activities. The packaging and testing of semiconductors is a complex process requiring, among other things, a high degree of technical skill and advanced equipment. If we are unable to obtain additional assembly and test capacity on sufficiently favorable terms, our ability to maintain or grow our net sales could be impaired. Shortages in contract assembly and test capacity could cause shortages in our products and could also result in the loss of customers as a result of delays. Because we rely on these third parties, we also have less control over our costs, delivery schedules and quality of our products and our technology is at greater risk of misappropriation. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Our operating results depend on our ability to introduce and sell new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively based on price and performance and that address customer requirements. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and our customers and potential customers introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for new products and technologies. Our ability to introduce and sell new products successfully depends on several factors, including: development of support tools and technical documentation that make complex products easy for engineers to understand and use; proper new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; support from our foundry service providers; complexity of the new products to be designed and manufactured; and market acceptance of our products and our customers' products. 13 The emphasis of our new product development is on products built on our 8, 16 and 32-bit microcontroller architectures. If market demand for these products does not develop as we anticipate, our product development strategy could fail. Because our products are complex, we may not meet the design and introduction schedules for any new products or any additions or modifications to our existing products, and these products may not achieve market acceptance. In addition, we may not be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. We may be unable to make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. We intend to maintain spending on new product development in order to stay competitive in our markets. There can be no assurances that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change and heightened competition in many markets. The industry consists of major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the semiconductor industry. Our current and future products compete with, or may compete with, products offered by Atmel, Cypress Semiconductor, Microchip, Freescale, Renasas, Samsung, ST Microelectronics and Universal Electronics, Inc., among others. Some of our principal products, such as the Z80 microprocessor, are licensed by our competitors, or are in the public domain, and can be manufactured and sold to our customers by our competitors, possibly with added features or at lower prices than we charge. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including: our ability to design and manufacture new products that implement new technologies, including our 8-bit microcontrollers, universal remote control solutions and our Zatara 32-bit ARM based product families; our ability to protect our products by effectively utilizing intellectual property laws; our product quality, reliability, ease of use and price; the diversity of our product line and feature sets within our products; our efficiency of production; our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; the availability of subcontractors for the wafer fabrication, assembly and test of our products; the pace at which customers incorporate our devices into their products; and the success of our competitors' products and general economic conditions. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate and may fail to meet expectations, which may cause the price of our securities to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet expectations, the price of our securities could fluctuate or decline significantly. In addition, significant proportions of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development costs and manufacturing costs. Therefore, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. A variety of factors could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, including: our ability to introduce and sell new products and technologies on a timely basis; any shortage of wafer, test or assembly manufacturing capacity at our third-party vendors; competitive developments, including pricing pressures; technological change and product obsolescence; changes in product mix or fluctuations in manufacturing yields; 14 variability of our customers' product life cycles; the level of orders that we receive and can ship in a quarter and customer order patterns, which may be especially difficult to predict on our newer products; seasonality; inventory write-downs or asset impairments; restructuring charges; increases in the cost or scarcity of raw materials; and gain or loss of significant customers. We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter, and therefore our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter and shipments from backlog. Our backlog at the beginning of each quarter does not include all sales needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Consequently, we are dependent on obtaining orders to be shipped in the same quarter that the order is received for a significant portion of net sales in that quarter. Moreover, customers may reschedule shipments and production difficulties could delay shipments. Accordingly, we have limited visibility into future product shipments and our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry and have experienced a downturn in the business cycle, which has materially adversely affected our revenues and cash generation. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant economic downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, erosion of average selling prices, production over-capacity and high inventory levels. For example, beginning in the quarter ended December 31, 2000, we experienced a three-year downturn in our business cycle. We are currently experiencing another down-turn in our business cycle and may experience downturns in the future. We believe that, in light of these events, some of our customers curtailed and may in the future delay or further curtail spending on technology, which could negatively affect our quarterly results or financial condition in the future. Similar economic downturn in the semiconductor industry could increase pressure on us to reduce our prices, which could impair our revenues, gross margins and operating cash flow. From time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. We have in the past experienced substantial period-to-period declines in operating results, and will likely in the future experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results that are attributable to semiconductor industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. Average selling prices in the semiconductor industry typically decline over time, which directly affects our revenue and margins. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry have decreased over the life of any particular product. To the extent that our products achieve market acceptance, competitors typically seek to offer competitive products or embark on discount pricing strategies. We have in the past and may in the future be required to reduce selling prices in response to competition. From time to time, technology and manufacturing changes have the impact of lower average selling prices, such as the conversion of hardware to software modems and packaged to die only sales. If we are unable to offset any reductions in the selling prices of our products by introducing new products at higher prices or by reducing our costs, our revenues, gross margins and operating results could be impaired. In addition, if the price at which we can sell products in our inventory declines below the cost of such products, we may be required to write down the value of such inventory. 15 A significant amount of our revenues comes from relatively few distributors, and any decrease of revenues from these customers and distributors, or the loss of their business, could significantly harm our financial results. Historically we have been, and we expect to continue to be, dependent on a relatively small number of distributors for a significant portion of our revenues. We depend on third-party distributors to market and sell our products, and these third-party distributors collectively accounted for approximately 56% of our net sales in each of the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006. In addition, our five largest distributors accounted for approximately 47% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, 46% for the twelve months ended March 31, 2007and 44% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006. One distributor accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, 23% for the twelve months ended March 31, 2007 and 24% for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006. Our distributors decide whether to include our products among those that they sell, and they may carry and sell product lines that are competitive with ours. Because our distributors are not required to make a specified minimum level of purchases from us, we cannot be sure that they will prioritize selling our products. We also rely on our distributors to accurately report to us on a timely basis their sales of our products and provide certain support services to our customers. Our inability to obtain accurate and timely reports and to successfully manage these relationships could materially adversely affect our business and financial reports. Our distributors may not continue to effectively market, sell or support our products. We depend on relatively few major customers for a substantial portion of our sales. Our ten largest customers, excluding our distributors, accounted for approximately 39% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, 36% for the twelve months ended March 31, 2007 and 33% for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006, we had one direct customer that accounted for 11%, 15% and 10% of our net sales, respectively. In addition, for the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2006, we had one distributor that accounted for 25%, 23%and 24% of our net sales, respectively. Concentration of net sales to particular customers may change from period to period, but we expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues in any particular period for the foreseeable future. We have very few long-term contracts with our customers, and, like us, our customers typically compete in cyclical industries. We routinely purchase inventory based on customers' estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. Thus, our customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or to alter their purchasing patterns on short notice, particularly because substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order or sales order acknowledgment basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments. Any of our large customers may choose to exit the business we supply, or partner with, or acquire product from our competitors. Should this occur, our results of operations would likely be harmed. The loss of one or more major customers or any reduction, delay or cancellation of orders by any of these customers or our failure to market successfully to new customers, could result in a significant reduction in net sales during one or more periods, excess inventory or write-downs of inventory. Our revenue may decline if customers for whom we are sole source providers seek alternative sources of supply. We serve as the sole (or primary) source provider for some of our direct customers. Those customers may choose to reduce their dependence on us by seeking second sources of supply, which could reduce our revenue. To remain a sole (or primary) source provider, we must continue to demonstrate to our customers that we have adequate alternate sources for components, that we maintain adequate alternatives for production and that we can deliver value added products on a timely basis. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business with countries outside the United States that could impair our results of operations. Approximately 60 - 65% of our net sales for each of the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, the twelve months ended March 31, 2007 and the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, were made to countries outside the United States. These sales to non-U.S. customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. We maintain significant operations, or rely on a number of contract manufacturers, in the Philippines, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand, India and other locations in Asia. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to, or arise from, operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include: 16 economic and political instability; changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; transportation delays; power supply shortages and shutdowns; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems; existence of language barriers and cultural distinctions; acts of God, including floods, typhoons and earthquakes; taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; and other uncertainties relating to the administration of, or changes in, or new interpretation of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In addition, our activities outside the United States are subject to risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchanges rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. While our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate fluctuations, and such fluctuations could harm our operating results materially. The risks inherent in our international operations have been increased by the threat of terrorist attacks. These attacks, coupled with an international military response, have created an uncertain economic environment, and we cannot predict the impact of these political threats or any related military action, on our customers or our business. We have had a history of losses, and we may not be profitable in the future. We have had a history of losses since the one-time gain on extinguishment of debt and fresh-start adjustments in 2002. We may not be profitable in the future. We depend on key personnel, and the loss of our current personnel or our failure to hire and retain additional personnel could harm our business. We depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical and managerial personnel. We believe that our future success in developing marketable products and achieving a competitive position will depend in large part on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, executive, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in Northern California, where our headquarters are located, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Our failure to recruit and retain necessary technical, executive, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel could harm our business and our ability to obtain new customers and develop new products. In addition, our history of losses and our 2002 bankruptcy reorganization could impair our ability to recruit and retain employees. We do not have employment contracts with any of our executive officers. We have recently received unsolicited proposals to acquire our company including one solicitor who has requested a nominee to our Board of Directors. Our ability to recruit and retain key personnel may be negatively impacted by uncertainties relating to potential future changes in the ownership and control of our company. For a portion of our employee incentives, we issue common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at time of the grant and that are subject to vesting. At times, our stock price has declined, reducing the effectiveness of these incentives. We may fail to protect our proprietary rights, and the cost of protecting those rights, whether we are successful or not, may harm our ability to compete. The extent and value of our intellectual property is necessarily uncertain, and our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be successful. Despite our precautions, a third party may copy or otherwise obtain our devices or technology without authorization, requiring patent litigation to enforce our rights. Patent litigation is, by its nature, expensive and unpredictable. If litigated, one or more of our patents may be found invalid or unenforceable or to have claims of such narrow scope as to be of little economic value. Third parties may design around our patents. Third parties may independently develop technology similar to our trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries where we have patent and trademark rights may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 17 Additionally, our pending and future patent applications should not be relied upon as they may not issue as patents, and even if they do issue, such future patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful economic or competitive value. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation may be unsuccessful and could require us to incur substantial costs and divert significant valuable resources, including the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may harm our business materially. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, both defensive and offensive. In addition to the Microchip lawsuit and Altera claim described elsewhere, from time to time we have received, and may in the future receive, communications from other third parties asserting that a product offered by us, or an aspect of our business, infringes a patent held by the other third party and/or requires a license thereto. With respect to those other third party communications that are currently pending, we believe, after having consulted with counsel, that either (i) we have meritorious defenses, (ii) based on license terms previously offered to us or typically available in the industry, we can obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or (iii) we can modify our products to avoid such rights, but if this is not the case, we may be sued and assessed damages for past infringement. Indeed, licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to the infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our devices. We have received in the past a letter from an electronic equipment manufacturer that makes products that are competitive to certain of our key products, asserting that the sale of certain of our key products may be infringing certain patents owned by them. After having consulted with counsel, we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the assertions set forth in the letter. However, should it become necessary to engage in litigation to defend against such assertions, such litigation could be expensive and time consuming. There can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of this matter would not have a material adverse affect on our business. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. The cost of defending against patent infringement or other intellectual property litigation, in terms of management time and attention, legal fees and product delays, could be substantial, whatever the outcome. If any patent or other intellectual property claims against us are successful, we may be prohibited from using the technologies subject to these claims, and if we are unable to obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology, or design new technology to avoid infringement, we could be prohibited from using or selling the infringing products or technologies and be required to pay substantial damages. Such a result could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be forced to spend significant time and money on products that contain, or are rumored to contain, design defects or errors. Because the design and production process for semiconductors is highly complex, we may produce products whose design deviates from published specifications. In addition, one or more of our products may be found to contain production defects after we have already shipped such products. These production defects could be caused by either raw materials or errors in the production process. If errors or production defects are discovered after we have already shipped one or more of our products in volume, we could be materially adversely affected in one or more of the following ways: replacements or recalls could impose substantial costs on us; rumors, false or otherwise, may be circulated by the press and other media, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products; and customers or end users may file suits, or assert other legal claims against us, alleging damages caused by defective products or errors in products. If we do not successfully defend such suits, we could be required to pay substantial damages. Even if we prevail in suits filed by customers or end users, we may be required to expend significant funds in defense. 18 Changes in technologies or consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. As a result of technological changes, from time to time our customers change the design of their products so as not to include our products, which may have a negative impact on our net sales. Because we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of our customers, changes in the designs of their products can have sudden and significant impacts on our sales. Reduced sales due to customer design changes have harmed us in the past, and additional customer design changes could result in lower revenues in the future. We may forecast the future demand for our products incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Since we must order products and build inventory substantially in advance of product shipments, we may forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. The ability of our customers to reschedule or cancel orders without significant penalty could adversely affect our liquidity, as we may be unable to adjust our purchases from our wafer suppliers to match any customer changes and cancellations. As part of our business strategy, we maintain a substantial inventory of sorted wafers in a die bank but limit our investment in finished goods. We may have adequate wafer inventory to meet customer needs but may be unable to finish the manufacturing process prior to the delivery date specified by the customer. Demand for our products is volatile and customers often place orders with short lead times. Our inventory may not be reduced by sufficient demand of customer orders and in the future we may produce excess quantities of our products. It is our policy to fully write down all inventories that we do not expect to be sold in a reasonable period of time. We may suffer reductions in values of our inventories in the future and we may be unable to liquidate our inventory at acceptable prices. To the extent we have excess inventories of particular products, our operating results could be adversely affected by charges to cost of revenues that we would be required to recognize due to significant reductions in demand for our products or rapid declines in the market value of our inventory, resulting in inventory write downs or other adverse consequences. We have implemented measures to consolidate our activities and/or significantly reduce our costs, and we may be required to implement additional measures depending upon our future revenues and operating results. In the past, we have implemented measures designed to consolidate our activities and/or reduce our costs, including during the four years ended March 31, 2008. These cost reduction efforts have included: transferring our production test operations currently performed in our Philippines facility to third party suppliers; consolidation of our research and development activities including the closure of design and development sites in Shanghai, China and Seattle, Washington; restructuring our manufacturing operations, which has included closing and subsequently outsourcing all of our wafer fabrication and assembly operations and consolidating probe and final test operations, as well as certain customer service and accounting functions at our Philippines site; refocusing our strategic priorities; reallocating personnel and responsibilities to better utilize human resources; reducing our workforce; and instituting temporary office and facility shutdowns. Cost reduction measures may not increase our efficiency or lead to profitability. In the past, we have reduced our spending on research and development. Reducing research and development spending could harm our ability to introduce new products in the future. If our revenue or operating results significantly decline in the future, we may be required to institute further cost reduction measures. From time to time, we evaluate our strategic alternatives with respect to our facilities and we may take actions which may result in the occurrence of accounting charges. Some or all of these charges may be non-cash. Such charges would have a negative impact on our GAAP profitability and may have a negative impact on our cash balance. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on us. Until 2005, we operated wafer fabrication activities in our Nampa, Idaho facilities. Until February 2006, we owned an 8-inch wafer manufacturing facility and until April 2007, we owned a 5-inch wafer manufacturing facility. Our manufacturing processes required us to use various hazardous substances, and, as a result, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing the storage, use, emission, discharge and disposal of, and human exposure to, such substances. In 19 particular, the process of manufacturing silicon wafers used large amounts of corrosive and other hazardous chemicals and huge quantities of distilled, de-ionized water. Any failure by us to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that could materially harm our business, have a materially adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations, including under laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Subsequent to the ceasing of wafer manufacturing activities in these facilities, the facilities were cleaned and prepared for sale and the equipment was decommissioned and sold. We no longer conduct manufacturing activities in Nampa, Idaho. Recently, laws and regulations have been enacted in several European Union member countries, including several jurisdictions in which we operate, restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and holding producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Specifically, the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directives. The RoHS directive prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, mercury, cadmium and chromium, in covered products placed on the market after July 1, 2006. The WEEE directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the European Union to clearly mark the equipment, register with and report to European Union regulators regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to recall and properly dispose of the equipment. Each European Union member country has enacted, or is expected to soon enact, legislation clarifying what is and what is not covered by the WEEE directive in that country. However, there is still some uncertainty in certain European Union countries as to which party involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic equipment will be ultimately held responsible. If we are deemed to be a manufacturer of covered products, we may be required to register as a producer in certain European Union countries, and incur financial responsibility with respect to products sold within the European Union, including products of other manufacturers that have been replaced by our products. We may also incur substantial costs to change our contract partners manufacturing processes, redesign or reformulate, and obtain substitute components for, our products that are deemed covered products under the ROHS directive. If we fail to timely provide RoHS-compliant products, we will not be able to offer our products within European Union, and we may be subject to civil or criminal liabilities. Similar laws have been proposed and may be enacted in other locations where we sell our products, including various jurisdictions within the United States and China. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and ensure, as appropriate or required, that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. If we fail to timely comply with such laws, we could face sanctions for such noncompliance and our customers further may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to environmental remediation, we could incur substantial costs for the clean up of contaminated properties, either those we own or operate or to which we have sent wastes in the past. Under certain of these laws and regulations, current or previous owners or operators of property may be liable for cleanup costs and other damages without regard to whether they knew of, or caused, the contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate, contamination could materially adversely affect the value of, and the ability to transfer or encumber, our property. In addition, we may be required to incur significant expense in connection with governmental investigation of environmental or employee health and safety matters. We may engage in acquisitions and other forms of business combinations or partnerships that could materially adversely affect our operating results, dilute our stockholders' equity, or cause us to incur additional debt or assume contingent liabilities. To increase our business and maintain our competitive position, we have made acquisitions in the past and may do so in the future. Acquisitions and other forms of business combinations or partnerships involve a number of risks that could harm our business and result in the acquired business not performing as expected, including: insufficient experience with technologies and markets in which the acquired or combined business is involved, which may be necessary to successfully operate and integrate the business; problems integrating the acquired or combined operations, personnel, technologies or products with the existing business and products; diversion of management time and attention from our core business to the acquired or combined business; potential failure to retain key technical, management, sales and other personnel of the acquired or combined business; difficulties in retaining relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired or combined business; and subsequent impairment of the acquired or combined assets, including intangible assets. 20 In addition, acquisitions and other forms of business combinations or partnerships could require investment of significant financial resources and may require us to obtain additional equity financing, which may dilute our stockholders' equity, or to incur additional indebtedness. Potential continuing uncertainty resulting from recent unsolicited acquisition proposals received from Universal Electronics Inc. and Riley Investment Partners Master Fund, L.P. and IXYS Corporation and related matters may adversely affect our business. On January 11, 2008, we received an unsolicited proposal from Universal Electronics Inc., or UEI, to acquire all of our outstanding shares of common stock. Also on January 11, 2008, UEI and Riley Investment Partners Master Fund, L.P. entered into an agreement with respect to this potential acquisition of ZiLOG. In the case of a successful acquisition, under the agreement, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, UEI would acquire our remote control assets and Riley Investment Partners Master Fund would acquire our remaining assets. On February 4, 2008, our Board announced that, after carefully reviewing the proposal, it unanimously concluded that the proposal was not in the best interests of ZiLOG and its stockholders. On February 6, 2008, Riley Investment Management, LLC wrote a letter to Darin Billerbeck, our Chief Executive Officer, expressing its displeasure with the decision of our board of directors regarding the UEI proposal. On May 22, 2008, Riley Investment Management notified us of its intent to nominate two individuals for election to ZiLOG's board of directors at the upcoming annual meeting of our stockholders. In addition, on May 16, 2008, we received an unsolicited proposal from IXYS Corporation, or IXYS, to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock. On May 28, 2008, and prior to a formal response by our board of directors, IXYS filed a Schedule 13D/A indicating that it was withdrawing its unsolicited proposal. The review and consideration of these abovementioned proposals and related matters have required, and may continue to require, the expenditure of significant time and resources by us. There can be no assurance that UEI, Riley Investment Partners Master Fund, Riley Investment Management or IXYS or other potential suitors will not take other actions to acquire us, which may create continuing uncertainty for our employees, customers, distributors and other business partners. This continuing uncertainty could negatively impact our business and our ability to recruit and retain key employees. Acts of war or terrorism could harm our business. The long-term effects of potential terrorist attacks on the world economy and our business are unknown, but could be material to our business. Terrorist acts or acts of war, whether in the United States or abroad, also could cause damage or disruption to our business, our suppliers, our freight carriers, or our customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or failure to maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures, could harm our business and operating results and/or result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Change in fiscal calendar and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 report. On December 29, 2005, our Board of Directors unanimously adopted resolutions to change our fiscal year end from December 31 to March 31. We revised our fiscal year so that our audit work could be performed during non-peak periods with our independent registered public accountants, which has resulted in and we believe will result in cost savings over the long-term. During the on-going reviews of our control environment and our internal controls, as part of our review for the three-month period ended December 31, 2005, we identified deficiencies in our information technology controls, including the need to better segregate duties as it relates to the use of our Oracle Information Systems modules and to improve our General Computing Controls compliance and documentation. We have completed a thorough review of our control environment and have made improvements to our information technology controls in the areas where these deficiencies were identified. Although we believe we have adequately remediated our information technology environment and controls and results of our testing have not uncovered any errors, misstatements or acts of fraud that would lead us to conclude that we have any material weaknesses as of March 31, 2008, our auditors have not performed a formal review of our control environment and it is possible that material weaknesses or deficiencies exist. 21 Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") has previously required us to make changes to some of our corporate governance practices. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of a company's internal controls over financial reporting and also a report by a company's independent registered public accounting firm assessing the effectiveness of such company's internal controls over financial reporting. The Securities and Exchange Commission extended the dates for initial compliance with the internal control reporting requirements mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for filers that do not meet the definition of either an "accelerated filer" or a "large accelerated filer." Under the extension, a company that does not meet the definition of either an "accelerated filer" or a "large accelerated filer," as these terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, is not required to comply with the requirement to provide the auditor's attestation report on internal auditing over financial reporting until it files an annual report for its first fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2009. The measurement criteria for determining filing status, was based on our market capitalization as of September 29, 2007, at which time, our market capitalization was below the defined threshold for accelerated filers. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, we did not meet the definition of either an "accelerated filer" or a "large accelerated filer," as those terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purposes of compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Thus, under the extension, beginning with our fiscal year 2010, we will be required to provide an auditor's attestation report on internal controls over financial reporting, which will substantially increase our general and administrative expenses. Changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States may materially adversely affect our reported financial results or otherwise harm our business. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Changes in our business conditions could result in impairment of our goodwill. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.142, "Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142), the Company must perform at least an annual testing of the Company's stated value of its net assets including goodwill and other intangible assets in relation to the implied fair market value of the Company. If the Company's market capitalization or fair market value declines, we may be required to record financial adjustments to the stated values of our goodwill and other intangible assets, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets had an aggregated net book value of $4.7 million at March 31, 2008. Our North American distributor could emphasize competing products, and we may lose some of our customers as a result. In October 2002, we engaged Future Electronics ("Future") as our exclusive full-service distributor in North America. Additionally, Future provides distributor support to us in Europe and Asia on a non-exclusive basis. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 Future sales were approximately $17.0 million, or 25% of net sales,$19.1 million, or 23% of net sales and $18.6 million, or 24% of net sales, respectively. Future distributes products of our competition that may directly compete with our product offerings. If Future chooses to promote those products over our products, our operating results could be harmed significantly. In addition, if Future were to terminate our distribution agreement, we could experience a period of significant interruption of our business while we obtained other distribution channels. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in control that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and prohibiting stockholders from taking action by written consent. 22 In addition, provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Our directors, named executive officers and our two largest stockholders, who beneficially own approximately 32% of our common stock in the aggregate, may have interests that conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our directors and named executive officers, together with two large stockholders, UBS Willow Management, L.L.C., and funds managed by Capital Research and Management Company, beneficially owned approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, as of March 31, 2008. As a result of their ownership and positions, our directors and named executive officers, together with UBS Willow Management and Capital Research and Management Company, collectively are able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. The investment objectives of our largest institutional stockholders may differ from those of our other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. GN="CENTER"> 23 