ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s securities are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk, including among other items the risk factors described below. The below risk factors are intended to generally describe certain risks that could materially affect the Company and its current business operations and activities. You should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere herein in connection with any decision whether to acquire, hold or sell the Company’s securities. If any of the contingencies discussed in the following paragraphs or other materially adverse events actually occur, the business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a significant part of your investment. Operations Related Risks Our business depends on domestic spending by the crude oil and natural gas industry which has suffered significant negative price volatility since July 2014, volatility which may continue; our business has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ ability and willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce crude oil and natural gas in the United States. Customers’ expectations for future crude oil and natural gas prices, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may cause them to curtail spending, thereby reducing demand for our services and equipment. Major declines in oil and natural gas prices since July 2014 (when prices were at approximately $100 per barrel) have resulted in substantial declines in capital spending and drilling programs across the industry. As a result of the declines in oil and natural gas prices, most exploration and production companies have shut down or substantially reduced drilling programs and asked service providers to make pricing concessions. Over the last year, the Company has offered pricing concessions to a number of customers. Typically, these concessions have been made with the intent to maintain existing service volumes and/or develop additional business. 16 Industry conditions and specifically the market price for crude oil and natural gas are influenced by numerous domestic and global factors over which the Company has no control, such as the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, weather conditions, political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries, and merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the consequent impact on commodity prices as well as exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling and activity by some of our customers. Where declining prices lead to reduced exploration and development activities in the Company’s market areas, the reduction in exploration and development activities also may have a negative long-term impact on the Company’s business. Continued decline in oil and natural gas prices may result in increased pressure from our customers to make additional pricing concessions in the future and may impact our borrowing arrangements with our principal bank. There can be no assurance that the prices we charge to our customers will return to former levels. There has also been significant political pressures for the United States economy to reduce its dependence on crude oil and natural gas due to the perceived impacts on climate change. Furthermore there have been significant political efforts to reduce or eliminate hydraulic fracturing operations in certain of the Company’s service areas, particularly in Colorado. These activities may make oil and gas investment and production less attractive. Higher oil and gas prices do not necessarily result in increased drilling activity because our customers’ expectation of future prices also drives demand for drilling services. Oil and gas prices, as well as demand for the Company’s services, also depend upon other factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including the following: ● demand for crude oil and natural gas; ● political pressures against crude oil and natural gas exploration and production; ● cost of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and natural gas; ● expectations regarding future energy prices; ● advancements in exploration and development technology; ● adoption or repeal of laws regulating oil and gas production in the U.S.; ● imposition or lifting of economic sanctions against foreign companies; ● weather conditions; ● rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves; ● tax policy regarding the oil and gas industry; and ● development and use of alternative energy sources. Ongoing volatility and uncertainty in the domestic and global economic and political environments have caused the oilfield services industry to experience volatility in terms of demand. While the Company is generally optimistic for the continuing development of the onshore North American oil and gas industry, there are a number of political and economic pressures negatively impacting the economics of continuing production from some existing wells, future drilling operations, and the willingness of banks and investors to provide capital to participants in the oil and gas industry. These cuts in spending will continue to curtail drilling programs as well as discretionary spending on well services, and will continue to result in a reduction in the demand for the Company’s services, the rates we can charge, and equipment utilization. In addition, certain of the Company’s customers could become unable to pay their suppliers, including the Company. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect our operating results. 17 Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of any executive or key personnel could disrupt our business operations. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain of our executive officers. The loss of the services of Rick Kasch, Austin Peitz, Robert Devers or other key personnel, could disrupt our operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Kasch, Peitz and Devers, that contain, among other things non-compete and confidentiality provisions, we may not be able to enforce the non-compete and/or confidentiality provisions in the employment agreements. We depend on several significant customers, and a loss of one or more significant customers could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company’s customers consist primarily of major and independent oil and natural gas companies. During fiscal year 2015, two of the Company’s customers accounted 21% of consolidated revenues and during fiscal year 2014, one of the Company’s customers accounted for 18% of consolidated revenues. No other customer exceeded 10% of revenues. The Company’s top five customers accounted for approximately 38% and 46% of its total annual revenues for 2015 and 2014, respectively. The loss of any one of these customers or a sustained decrease in demand by any of such customers could result in a substantial loss of revenues and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. While the Company believes our equipment could be redeployed in the current market environment if we lost any material customers, such loss could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business until the equipment is redeployed. We believe that the market for the Company’s services is sufficiently diversified that it is not dependent on any single customer or a few major customers. Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the domestic oil and natural gas industry. The Company has no influence over its customers’ capital expenditures. On-going economic volatility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by participants in the domestic (United States) oil and natural gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth in the United States and elsewhere, and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Beginning in the second half of 2014, oil prices have declined substantially from historical highs This caused many of our customers to reduce or delay their oil and natural gas exploration and production spending in 2015, which consequently has reduced their demand for our services, and exerted downward pressure on the prices that we charged for our services and products. Given various domestic and global factors, oil and natural gas prices may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, under an environment of increasing oil and natural gas prices it can lead to increasing costs of exploring for and producing oil and natural gas. Though the addition of frac stimulation into the domestic oil and gas industry has somewhat reduced the overall costs of producing oil and natural gas, the price of drill rigs, pipe, other equipment, fluids, and oil field services and the cost to companies like the Company of providing those services, has generally increased with significant increases in oil and natural gas prices. The resulting reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers during the past months due to the decline in oil prices and the increase of the costs of exploring for and producing oil and natural gas as noted above could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. This could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the importation and use of hazardous materials, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. The Company uses hazardous substances and transports hazardous wastes in its operations. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require the Company to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce its earnings and cash available for operations. The Company believes it is currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Competition within the well services industry may adversely affect our ability to market our services. Although the well services industry is highly fragmented, it is very competitive. The well services industry includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis, as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company’s larger competitors have greater resources that could allow those competitors to compete more effectively than the Company. The Company’s small competitors may be able to react to market conditions more quickly. The amount of equipment available may exceed demand at some point in time, which could result in active price competition. The Company could be impacted by unfavorable results of legal proceedings, such as being found to have infringed on intellectual property rights. As is the situation with all companies in the frac water heating service business, we rely on certain procedures and practices in performing our services. We have a patent application pending regarding certain procedures used in our process of heating frac water. We are aware that one unrelated company (the “Patent Owner”) has been awarded two patents related, in part, to a process for heating of frac water and is currently seeking additional patents. The Patent Owner is currently in litigation with two different groups of energy companies that are seeking to invalidate the first patent. A North Dakota court has issued a summary judgement that the primary patent owned by the Patent Owner is invalid. The same Court also found that this primary patent is unenforceable due to inequitable conduct by the Patent Owner and/or the inventor. Further, in a pending reexamination involving the same patent, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) has initially rejected all 99 claims of the patent. As of March 18, 2016, the Patent Owner is appealing the judgement and other adverse decisions by the North Dakota court and has filed an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Patent Owner has also filed a response to the USPTO’s rejections in the pending reexamination and is awaiting a response from the USPTO. 19 In October 2014, the Company was served with a complaint that alleges that Enservco and Heat Waves, in offering and selling frac water heating services, infringed and induced others to infringe on two patents owned by the Patent Owner including the patent ruled invalid by the North Dakota Court. The complaint seeks various remedies including injunctive relief and unspecified damages and relates to only a portion of Heat Waves’ frac water heating services. Heat Waves has answered the complaint, denied the Patent Owner’s allegations of infringement and asserted counterclaims asking the Court to find, among other things, that it does not infringe either patent and that both patents are invalid. The Patent Owner has replied to and denied those counterclaims. In July 2015, a Colorado Court granted a joint request by Heat Waves and the Patent Owner to stay the case. The lawsuit is now stayed pending the outcome of the reexamination and the appeal by the Patent Owner of the summary judgment invalidating the Patent Owner’s patent as set forth above. (See Item 3 – Litigation, for more information about this matter.) However, if Enservco and/or Heat Waves are found to be infringing, they could be liable for the payment of substantial damages or royalties or be subject to a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting Heat Waves from heating frac water in a manner it may have been using. Our operations are subject to inherent risks, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may be self-insured, or may not be fully covered under our insurance policies, but to the extent not covered, are self-insured by the Company. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, fires and oil spills. These conditions can cause: ■ Personal injury or loss of life, ■ Damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment, and ■ Suspension of operations by our customers. The occurrence of a significant event or adverse claim in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. The Company maintains insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against these hazards. In addition, in June 2015, the Company became self-insured under its Employee Group Medical Plan for the first $75,000 per individual participant. However, we do not have insurance against all foreseeable risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. The occurrence of an event not fully insured against, or the failure of an insurer to meet its insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at reasonable rates. Insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, it may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could rise significantly in the future so as to make such insurance prohibitively expensive. It is likely that, in our insurance renewals, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive than it has been in the recent past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. 20 While our growth strategy includes appropriate acquisitions, we may not be successful in identifying, making and integrating business or asset acquisitions, if any, in the future. We anticipate that a component of our growth strategy may be to make geographically focused acquisitions of businesses or assets aimed to strengthen our presence and expand services offered in selected regional markets. Pursuit of this strategy may be restricted by the on-going volatility and uncertainty within the credit markets which may significantly limit the availability of funds for such acquisitions. Our ability to use shares of our common stock in an acquisition transaction may be adversely affected by the volatility in the price of our stock. In addition to restricted funding availability, the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to negotiate acceptable financial and other terms. There is no assurance that we will be able to do so. The success of an acquisition also depends on our ability to perform adequate due diligence before the acquisition and on our ability to integrate the acquisition after it is completed. While the Company intends to commit significant resources to ensure that it conducts comprehensive due diligence, there can be no assurance that all potential risks and liabilities will be identified in connection with an acquisition. Similarly, while we expect to commit substantial resources, including management time and effort, to integrating acquired businesses into ours, there is no assurance that we will be successful in integrating these businesses. In particular, it is important that the Company be able to retain both key personnel of the acquired business and its customer base. A loss of either key personnel or customers could negatively impact the future operating results of any acquired business. In January 2016, HWWM, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired various assets including the water transfer assets of HIIT and WET for approximately $4.0 million dollars. The Company’s ability to successfully integrate these acquisitions and expand the water transfer and bacteria and scaling solutions services is a going to be challenging given the current industry environment. There can be no assurance that we will successfully integrate these acquisitions and expand these services. Compliance with climate change legislation or initiatives could negatively impact our business. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation to mandate reductions of greenhouse gas emissions and certain states have already implemented, or may be in the process of implementing, similar legislation. Additionally, the U.S. Supreme Court has held in its decisions that carbon dioxide can be regulated as an “air pollutant” under the Clean Air Act, which could result in future regulations even if the U.S. Congress does not adopt new legislation regarding emissions. At this time, it is not possible to predict how legislation or new federal or state government mandates regarding the emission of greenhouse gases could impact our business; however, any such future laws or regulations could require us or our customers to devote potentially material amounts of capital or other resources in order to comply with such regulations. These expenditures could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Anti-fracking initiatives could adversely impact our business. Some states and certain municipalities have regulated, or are considering regulating hydraulic fracturing (“fracking”) which, if accomplished, could impact certain of our operations. While the Company does not believe that these regulations and contemplated actions to limit or prohibit fracking have impacted its activities to date, there can be no assurance that these actions, if taken on a wider scale, may not adversely impact the Company’s business operations and revenues. Debt Related Risks Our indebtedness, which is currently collateralized by substantially all of our assets, could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. As of December 31, 2015, the Company owed approximately $21.6 million to banks and financial institutions under various collateralized debt facilities (approximately $23.9 million as of February 29, 2016). 21 Our current and future indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: ■ Impair our ability to make investments and obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes, ■ Limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, ■ Make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general as a substantial portion of our operating cash flow will be required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, making it more difficult to react to changes in our business and in industry and market conditions, ■ Put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have less debt, or ■ Increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases to the extent that we incur additional variable rate indebtedness, a variable rate that has increased as a result of the Sixth Amendment to our lending agreement with PNC Bank. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain the funds required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various debt service covenants and/or reporting covenants in the business loan agreements or other instruments governing our current or any future indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of our credit facilities or such other instruments. As of the date of this Form 10-K, we are in compliance with our debt covenant obligations as a result of having obtained a waiver as to certain obligations from our principal lender. The availability of borrowings under our credit facility is based on a borrowing base which is subject to redetermination by our lender based on a number of factors and the lender’s internal credit criteria. In the event the amount outstanding under our credit facility at any time exceeds the borrowing base at such time, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings on an accelerated basis. In the event of a default, the holders of our indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed under those instruments to be due and payable together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments there under and we or one or more of our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any of the foregoing consequences could restrict our ability to grow our business and cause the value of our common stock to decline. We may be unable to meet the obligations of various financial covenants that are contained in the terms of our loan agreements with our principal lender, PNC Bank, National Association. The Company’s agreements with PNC impose various obligations and financial covenants on the Company. The outstanding amount under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Security Agreement, entered into with PNC in September 2014, is due in full in September 2019. The revolving credit agreement with PNC has a variable interest rate and is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. Further, the related agreements with PNC impose various financial covenants on the Company including maintaining a prescribed fixed charge coverage ratio, maximum leverage ratio, and limit the Company’s ability to incur additional debt or operating lease obligations. If the Company is unable to comply with its obligations and covenants under the loan agreements and it declares an event of default, all of its obligations to PNC could be immediately due. The depressed conditions in the oil and natural gas industry and the resultant reduction in drilling activity in our service areas has made it more difficult to meet our financial covenants. 22 Although the Company has obtained waivers of financial covenants or modifications to our credit agreements in the past when we have failed to meet specific provisions (including for various periods in the 2016 fiscal year), there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain these waivers or modifications in the future. The variable rate indebtedness with PNC subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. The Company’s borrowings through PNC bear interest at variable rates, exposing the Company to interest rate risk. In September 2015, the Company entered into an Interest Rate Swap Agreement with a notional balance of $10 million in conjunction with the senior revolving credit facility with PNC bank. The Company has decided not to hedge against the interest rate risk associated with the remaining balance of the senior revolving credit facility (with a maximum available balance of $30 million). We may increase, decrease or terminate some or all of these hedging arrangements in the future. Depending on our overall hedging level, our debt service obligations could increase significantly in the event of large increases in interest rates. The Sixth Amendment to our loan agreement with PNC resulted in (among other things) an increase in our variable interest rate by 1.75% for the balance of the term of the agreement. Our debt obligations, which may increase in the future, may reduce our financial and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2015, we had borrowed approximately $20.7 million under our senior revolving credit facility and have approximately $9.9 million of borrowing capacity available under this facility. Although the Company plans to utilize cash flow from operations during the first half of 2016 to reduce our outstanding borrowings, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If the Company is unable to reduce debt as planned or new debt or other liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. A high level of indebtedness subjects us to a number of adverse risks. In particular, a high level of indebtedness may make it more likely that a reduction in the borrowing base of our credit facility following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of outstanding borrowings, may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future, and increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. In addition, we may be required to devote a significant portion of our cash flows to servicing our debt, and we are subject to interest rate risk under our credit facility, which bears interest at a variable rate and increased by 1.75% as a result of the Sixth Amendment. Any further increase in our interest rates (whether by amendment to our loan agreement or as the result of economic conditions) could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient funds on hand to pay our debt when due, we may be required to seek a waiver or amendment from our lenders, refinance our indebtedness, incur additional indebtedness, sell assets or sell additional shares of securities. We may not be able to complete such transactions on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to undertake any of these actions successfully could result in a default on our debt obligations, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our existing shareholders could experience further dilution if we elect to raise equity capital to meet our liquidity needs or finance a strategic transaction. As part of our growth strategy we may desire to raise capital and or utilize our common stock to effect strategic business transactions. Either such action will likely require that we issue equity (or debt) securities which would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Although we will attempt to minimize the dilutive impact of any future capital-raising activities or business transactions, we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to do so. If we are successful in raising additional working capital, we may have to issue additional shares of our common stock at prices at a discount from the then-current market price of our common stock. A significant portion of our common stock is currently considered restricted stock pursuant to Rule 144 and is subject to the rules applicable to “former shell companies”. A significant portion of our outstanding common stock has been issued as “restricted securities” under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, including the shares issued to our Former President and Chairman in July 2010 and in an equity placement completed in November 2012. As a former shell company, to the extent that any person holds restricted securities of the Company or otherwise must rely on Rule 144 for resale, Rule 144(i) imposes additional restrictions on the ability of any holder to utilize the exemption from registration for sales contained in Rule 144. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. The value of our common stock may decline significantly if we are unable to maintain our NYSE MKT listing. Our common stock has recently sold and may continue to sell at a price per share well below $1.00. The NYSE MKT rules contain requirements with respect to continued listing standards, which include, among other things, when it appears to the Board of Directors of the Exchange that “the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the security has become so reduced as to make further dealings on the Exchange inadvisable” (Rule 1002). Rule 1003 also provides that the Exchange will not normally consider removing shares from listing where, like Enservco at the present time, “the issuer has at least 1,100,000 shares publicly held, a market value of publicly held shares of at least $15,000,000 and 400 round lot shareholders”. 24 We believe we are in compliance with NYSE MKT listing requirements, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those listing requirements in the future. If we fail to meet the requirements, our common stock may be delisted. If our common stock is delisted, we would be forced to list our common stock on the OTC Markets or some other quotation medium, depending on our ability to meet the specific requirements of those quotation systems. In that case, we may lose some or all of our institutional investors, and selling our common stock on the OTC Markets would be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold and transactions could be delayed. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock. Further, because of the additional regulatory burdens imposed upon broker-dealers with respect to de-listed companies, delisting could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our stock, further limiting the liquidity of our shares. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the trading price, liquidity, value and marketability of our stock. General Corporate Risks Concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any stockholder will be able to influence the election of directors or engage in a change of control transaction. Four stockholders directly and indirectly own approximately 42% of the Company’s outstanding common stock and have the ability to heavily influence the election of our directors when they again stand for reelection. Furthermore, it is likely that no person seeking control of the Company through stock ownership will be able to succeed in doing so without negotiating an arrangement to do so with these stockholders. For so long as these stockholders continue to own a significant percentage of the outstanding shares of the Company common stock, they will retain such influence over the election of the board of directors and the negotiation of any change of control transaction. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay a change in control or a takeover. Provisions in our bylaws provide certain requirements for the nomination of directors which preclude a stockholder from nominating a candidate to stand for election at any annual meeting. As described in Section 2.12 of the Company’s bylaws, nominations must be presented to the Company well in advance of a scheduled annual meeting, and the notification must include specific information as set forth in that section. The Company believes that such a provision provides reasonable notice of the nominees to the board of directors, but it may preclude stockholder nomination at a meeting where the stockholder is not familiar with nomination procedures and, therefore, may prevent or delay a change of control or takeover. Although the Delaware General Corporation Law includes §112 which provides that bylaws of Delaware corporations may require the corporation to include in its proxy materials one or more nominees submitted by stockholders in addition to individuals nominated by the board of directors, the bylaws of the Company do not so provide. As a result, if any stockholder desires to nominate persons for election to the board of directors, the proponent will have to incur all of the costs normally associated with a proxy contest. Indemnification of officers and directors may result in unanticipated expenses. The Delaware General Corporation Law, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws, and indemnification agreements between the Company and certain individuals provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with us or activities on our behalf. We also will bear the expenses of such litigation for any of our directors, officers, employees, or agents, upon such person’s promise to repay them if it is ultimately determined that any such person shall not have been entitled to indemnification. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures by us that we may be unable to recoup and could direct funds away from our business and products (if any). 25 We have significant obligations under the 1934 Act and the NYSE MKT. Because we are a public company filing reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and extensive and complex regulation. The Securities and Exchange Commission has the right to review the accuracy and completeness of our reports, press releases, and other public documents. In addition, we are subject to extensive requirements to institute and maintain financial accounting controls and for the accuracy and completeness of our books and records. In addition to regulation by the SEC, we are subject to the NYSE MKT rules. The NYSE MKT rules contain requirements with respect to corporate governance, communications with shareholders, and various other matters. Forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate. In our effort to make the information in this report more meaningful, this report contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meanings of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the 1934 Act. Forward-looking statements in this report are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the current expectations of our management concerning future results and events. We have attempted to qualify our forward-looking statements with appropriate cautionary language to take advantage of the judicially-created doctrine of “bespeaks caution” and other protections. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance and achievements to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements in this annual report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on our future results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 