ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although not required for smaller reporting companies, Aspen has determined that risk factors are material to an understanding of its past business and future plans and, therefore, set them forth here. An investment in and ownership of our common stock is one of high risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below in connection with any decision whether to acquire, hold or sell our securities. If any of the contingencies discussed in the following paragraphs or other materially adverse events actually occurs, the business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 5 We have no business operations, and only limited prospects for business operations. We currently are not engaged in any business operations, although we are beginning the process of considering alternatives including the dissolution of Aspen or entering into a business combination or otherwise recommencing business should an attractive opportunity become available. We cannot offer any assurances that we will be able to complete any business combination. We can also offer no assurance that if we do complete any business combination, we will be able to do so on commercially-reasonable terms, in a manner that could be advantageous to our shareholders, or that the combination will, ultimately, be successful. Our funds are primarily invested in money market funds in a limited number of uninsured accounts. Our funds are substantially all invested in a limited number of uninsured accounts. Inasmuch as these funds are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or other government or private agency, we are at risk for the solvency of the funds and the ability of the funds to repay our funds when we require them. While we believe Aspen has chosen its funds based on financial strength more than return, especially in light of the experiences during the last eighteen months, Aspen cannot offer any assurance that the amount it has invested in money market funds will be available when required. We do not know what our final settlement relating to the sale of assets to Venoco will be. Although we received a net (before taxes) of approximately $7,260,066 from Venoco for the June 30, 2009 sale of assets, our final settlement with Venoco may occur as late as October 28, 2009, at which time Venoco may owe us (and the other working interest owners who participated in the sale) additional funds, Venoco may have the right to recoup funds from us (and the other selling working interest owners), or there may be no adjustment. Furthermore, during the due diligence leading up to the sale, Venoco identified title discrepancies which led to price reduction for some wells in which Aspen and other working interest owners participated, and in some cases those reductions were significant. Aspen believes that it acquired and operated its properties in accordance with good industry practices, but there is the risk that certain of the working interest owners who sold properties for less than they ini tially anticipated may take action against Aspen. In such case, Aspen intends to defend itself aggressively. We have not instituted corporate governance policies or procedures and we have no independent directors. Aspen currently only has three executive officers, but only one who is an employee who serves as our chief executive officer. Aspen does not have any independent directors, an audit committee, a nominating committee, any other corporate governance committee, or experienced accounting personnel employed by it, although it does retain consultants to provide accounting assistance. Thus, our stockholders do not have the benefits or protections associated with corporate governance controls and other corporate oversight mechanisms overseen by independent directors. We have made, and will need to continue to make substantial financial and man-power investments in order to assess our internal controls over financial reporting and our internal controls over financial reporting may be found to be deficient. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting and requires auditors to attest to that assessment. We have expanded our use of outside consultants to comply with the Section 404 requirements and, as a result, management, with the aid of consultants, concluded that our ICFR were effective, as described in Item 9A(T) below. There are, however, inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any system of internal control, and accordingly, even effective ICFR can provide only reasonable assurance with respect of financial statement preparation and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Aspen primarily relies on consultants for the effectiveness of its ICFR. Material weaknesses make it more likely that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In addition, effective ICFR a t any point in time may become ineffective in future periods because of changes in conditions or due to deterioration in the degree of compliance with our established policies and procedures. If our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment when such report is required, we may be required to change our internal control over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies. In addition, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements causing our stock price to decline. We may become subject to the regulations under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and subject to regulation that would impose significant responsibilities and restrictions on our ability to do business. 6 The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “ICA”) is intended to impose additional regulation on companies whose business is to invest or reinvest in, hold, or trade securities of other companies. Companies who own investment securities constituting more than 40% of their assets (not including cash or government securities) are by definition subject to ICA regulation unless the “transient investment company” exemption applies. Aspen is relying on the transient investment company exemption in connection with its money market fund investments, an exemption which will be available through at least July 1, 2010. If Aspen were to become an investment company, we will be subject to a significant amount of additional regulation, significant restrictions in our ability to do business, and significant restrictions on any relationship with affiliates. We will also be subject to more detailed S EC scrutiny and subject to the registration and reporting requirements of the ICA in addition to the reporting requirements of the 1934 Act. Compliance with these new obligations will restrict Aspen’s opportunities to conduct its business as it has heretofore done, and will result in significantly greater regulatory compliance expenses. It is likely that any efforts we may make to acquire a business or to raise capital will result in substantial additional dilution to our shareholders. Our existing resources, after our proposed distribution to stockholders, will likely be insufficient to support business operations for a significant period of time. Furthermore, with any business combination or acquisition in which we engage, Aspen will likely issue shares of its common stock rather than paying cash for the business (as we will likely need our cash for operations). Moreover, if we raise capital for any operations in the future or issue stock for a business combination or acquisition, such action will require the issuance of equity or debt securities which will likely result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. Although we will attempt to minimize the dilutive impact of any future business acquisition or capital-raising activities, we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to do so. Our common stock has and may continue to experience price volatility. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Since July 1, 2006, our stock has traded as high as $5.00 per share (July 2006) and as low as $0.48 per share (February 2009). During that period, our trading volume has ranged from as low as 40 shares per week (January 2009) to 71,200 shares per week (July 2006). Until a larger secondary market for our common stock develops, the price of and trading volume for our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate substantially. The price of and trading volume for our common stock is impacted not only by our performance and announcements, but also by general market conditions and other factors that are beyond our control or influence and which may be unrelated to our performance. Our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules which limits the market for our common stock. Because our stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and since the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” SEC Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” This includes the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customers concerning the risk of penny stocks. Many broker-dealers decline to participate in penny stock transactions because of the extra requirements imposed on penny stock transactions. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock re duces the market liquidity of our shares, which in turn affects the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the shares they purchase, and they may not be able to resell at prices at or above the prices they paid. Indemnification of officers and directors may result in unanticipated expenses. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with us or activities on our behalf. We also will bear the expenses of such litigation for any of their directors, officers, employees, or agents, upon such person’s promise to repay them if it is ultimately determined that any such person shall not have been entitled to indemnification. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures by us that we may be unable to recoup and could direct funds away from our business and products (if any). 7 Our executive officers are involved in other ongoing business opportunities. Only one of our executive officers is an employee of Aspen, and none of our executive officers devote any significant amount of time to Aspen’s business operations. Our executive officers are each involved in other ongoing business opportunities, any of which could cause time conflicts and other various conflicts of interest with respect to such officer’s duties and obligations to Aspen. We have significant obligations under the Securities Act of 1934. Because we are a public company filing reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and extensive and complex regulation. The Securities and Exchange Commission has the right to review the accuracy and completeness of our reports, press releases, and other public documents. In addition, we are subject to extensive requirements to institute and maintain financial accounting controls and for the accuracy and completeness of their books and records. Normally these activities are overseen by an audit committee consisting of qualified independent directors. We have not appointed any independent directors. Consequently, the protections normally provided to shareholders by independent directors are not available. Although we hope to appoint qualified independent directors in the future should we enter into a business combination or acquire a business, we cannot offer any assurance that we will locate any person willing to serve in that capacity. Forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate. In our effort to make the information in this report more meaningful, this report contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meanings of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements in this report are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the current expectations of our management concerning future results and events. It should be noted that because we are a “penny stock,” the protections provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 do not apply to us. We have attempted to qualify our forward-looking statements with appropriate cautionary language to take advantage of the judicially-created doctrine of “bespeaks caution 148; and other protections. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance and achievements to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements in this prospectus. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on our future results. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay a change in control or a takeover. Provisions in our bylaws provide certain requirements for the nomination of directors which preclude a stockholder from nominating a candidate to stand for election at any annual meeting. As described in Section 2.12 of the bylaws, nominations must be presented to Aspen at least 45 days before the scheduled annual meeting, and the notification must include specific information as set forth in that section. Aspen believes that such a provision provides reasonable notice of nominees to the Board of Directors, but it may preclude stockholder nomination at a meeting where the stockholder is not conversant with nomination procedures and, therefore, may prevent or delay a change of control or takeover. Furthermore, Delaware recently added §112 to its general corporation law to provide that Delaware corporations may amend their bylaws to require the corporation to include in its proxy materials one or more nominees submitted by stockholders in addition to individuals nominated by the board of directors, subject to certain conditions that may be imposed. Congress and the Securities and Exchange Commission are considering similar proposals, but at the present time Aspen has not amended its bylaws to provide stockholder access and, therefore, stockholders who desire to nominate directors will be required to comply with Regulation 14A of the Securities and Exchange Commission, another factor that may delay or prevent a change of control or a takeover. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 