ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Enservco’s securities are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk, including among other items the risk factors described below. The below risk factors are intended to generally describe certain risks that could materially affect the Company and its current business operations and activities (thus giving effect to the Merger Transaction). You should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere herein in connection with any decision whether to acquire, hold or sell the Company’s securities. If any of the contingencies discussed in the following paragraphs or other materially adverse events actually occurs, the business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a significant part of your investment. Operations Related Risks Our business depends on domestic spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Customers’ expectations for lower market prices for oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may cause them to curtail spending, thereby reducing demand for our services and equipment. As an example, Enservco believes the weak global economy and decrease in demand for oil and natural gas during much of 2009 significantly contributed to DHW’s net loss of approximately $5.9 million in fiscal 2009. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which Enservco has no control, such as the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, weather conditions, political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries, and merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the consequent impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling and activity by some of Enservco’s customers. This reduction may cause a decline in the demand for the Company’s services or adversely affect the price of its services. In addition, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in Enservco’s market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on its business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced and the number of producing wells for Enservco to service declines. On-going deterioration and volatility in the global economic environment has caused the oilfield services industry to experience volatility in terms of demand, and the rate at which demand may slow, or return to former levels, is uncertain. On-going adverse changes in capital markets and volatility in prices for oil and natural gas have caused many oil and natural gas producers to announce reductions in capital budgets for future periods. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause these and other oil and natural gas producers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices increase from current levels. These cuts in spending will curtail drilling programs as well as discretionary spending on well services, which may res ult in a reduction in the demand for Enservco’s services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. In addition, certain of Enservco’s customers could become unable to pay their suppliers, including Enservco. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect Enservco’s operating results. 17 We may not be successful in integrating the operations of Dillco and its privately-held subsidiary companies into Enservco, a publicly held company with its securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and subject to the reporting requirements thereof. Although certain members of current management of Enservco have prior experience with public companies reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “1934 Act”), we may face challenges in integrating the financial reporting and disclosure requirements of a private company with significant business and financial operations such as DHW into the requirements of the 1934 Act, especially as those requirements were enhanced by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. The 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder impose extensive reporting obligations on all reporting companies, and further require internal control over financial reporting that is much more extensive than even prudently managed private companies and their lenders requir e. The difficulties associated with internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls is increased as a result of the geographical diversity of Enservco’s current operations. While members of management are working diligently to meet these obligations, we cannot offer any assurance that management will be successful in such integration or that the report on internal control that Enservco will have to include in its next quarterly reports may not identify material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls. If oil and natural gas prices remain volatile, remain low or decline further it could have an adverse effect on the demand for our services. The demand for many of Enservco’s services is primarily determined by current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices and the related general production spending and level of drilling activity in the areas in which we have operations. Volatility or weakness in oil and natural gas prices (or the perception that oil and natural gas prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of Enservco’s customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells or lower production spending on existing wells. This, in turn, could result in lower demand for Enservco’s services and may cause lower rates and lower utilization of the Company’s well service equipment. Continued low oil and natural gas prices, a further decline in oil and natural gas prices or a reduction in drilling activities could materially and adversely affect the demand for Enservco’s services and its results of operations. Prices for oil and natural gas historically have been extremely volatile and are expected to continue to be volatile. For example, although oil prices exceeded $140 per barrel and natural gas prices exceeded $13 per Mcf in 2008, prices fell to below $40 per barrel and $6 per Mcf by the end of 2008. Through August 2010 oil prices have remained volatile reaching highs of over $86 per barrel and lows of less than $68 per barrel. Similarly, natural gas prices have exceeded $5 per Mcf during 2010 but have also been below $4 per Mcf. The speed and severity of the decline in oil and natural gas prices recently experienced could materially affect the demand for the Company’s services and the rates that we are able to charge. 18 Demand for the majority of Enservco’s services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and natural gas industry. The Company’s customers’ capital expenditures may decline in 2010 and beyond if current global economic conditions continue or worsen. This could have a material adverse effect on Enservco’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The current on-going global economic volatility and uncertainty has reduced worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and resulted in significantly lower crude oil and natural gas prices compared to their record highs in July 2008. It is difficult to predict how long the global economic volatility will continue, or to what extent this will continue to affect us. The significant decline in oil and natural gas prices reduced many of the Company’s (i.e. those of DHW) customers’ activities and spending on DHW’s services and products in 2009; this reduction in customer activities and spending could continue through the remainder calendar 2010 and beyond. Demand for the majority of the Company’s services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and natural gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. The worldwide deterioration in the financial and credit markets, which began in the second half of 2008, resulted in diminished demand for oil and natural gas and significantly lower oil and natural gas prices. This caused many of DHW’s customers to reduce or delay their oil and natural gas exploration and production spending in 2009, which consequently reduced the demand for DHW’s services, and exerted downward pressure on the prices of DHW’s services and products. If the economic downturn continues for a prolonged period or if there is little or no economic growth, it will likely result in further reductions of exploration and production expenditures by Enservco’s customers, causing further declines in the demand for, and prices of, Enservco’s services and products. This could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The reduction in cash flows being experienced by Enservco’s customers resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with the reduced availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing funds could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of Enservco’s customers. This could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to Enservco, which could have a material adverse effect on Enservco’s results of operations and cash flows. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. Enservco is subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials and environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. 19 Enservco uses hazardous substances and wastes in its operations. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require Enservco to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce its earnings and cash available for operations. The Company believes it is currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Competition within the well services industry may adversely affect our ability to market our services. The well services industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis, as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than Enservco. The Company’s larger competitors’ greater resources could allow those competitors to compete more effectively than can Enservco. The amount of equipment available may exceed demand, which could result in active price competition. We depend on several significant customers, and a loss of one or more significant customers could adversely affect our results of operations. Enservco’s customers consist primarily of major and independent oil and natural gas companies. During 2009, DHW’s top five customers accounted for approximately 38 percent of its total revenues. The loss of any one of these customers or a sustained decrease in demand by any of such customers could result in a substantial loss of revenues and could have a material adverse effect on Enservco’s results of operations. Our operations are subject to inherent risks, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may be self-insured, or may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. Enservco’s current operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, fires and oil spills. These conditions can cause: § Personal injury or loss of life, § Damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment, and § Suspension of operations. The occurrence of a significant event or adverse claim in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on Enservco’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. The Company maintains insurance coverage that it believes to be customary in the industry against these hazards. However, Enservco does not have insurance against all foreseeable risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. As such, not all of Enservco’s property is insured. The occurrence of an event not fully insured against, or the failure of an insurer to meet its insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, Enservco may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers reasonable. Insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, it may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could rise significantly in the future so as to make such insurance p rohibitively expensive. It is likely that, in our insurance renewals, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive than it has been in the recent past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. 20 We may not be successful in identifying, making and integrating our acquisitions. We anticipate that a component of Enservco’s growth strategy may be to make geographic-focused acquisitions aimed to strengthen its presence in selected regional markets. Pursuit of this strategy may be restricted by the deterioration of credit markets which may significantly limit the availability of funds for such acquisitions. In addition to restricted funding availability, the success of this strategy will depend on Enservco’s ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to negotiate acceptable financial and other terms. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to do so. The success of an acquisition depends on our ability to perform adequate due diligence before the acquisition and on our ability to integrate the acquisition after it is completed. While the Compan y intends to commit significant resources to ensure that it conducts comprehensive due diligence, there can be no assurance that all potential risks and liabilities will be identified in connection with an acquisition. Similarly, while Enservco expects to commit substantial resources, including management time and effort, to integrating acquired businesses into ours, there is no assurance that we will be successful integrating these businesses. In particular, it is important that Enservco be able to retain both key personnel of the acquired business and its customer base. A loss of either key personnel or customers could negatively impact the future operating results of the acquired business. Compliance with climate change legislation or initiatives could negatively impact our business. The U.S. Congress is considering legislation to mandate reductions of greenhouse gas emissions and certain states have already implemented, or are in the process of implementing, similar legislation. Additionally, the U.S. Supreme Court has held in its decisions that carbon dioxide can be regulated as an “air pollutant” under the Clean Air Act, which could result in future regulations even if the U.S. Congress does not adopt new legislation regarding emissions. At this time, it is not possible to predict how legislation or new federal or state government mandates regarding the emission of greenhouse gases could impact Enservco’s business; however, any such future laws or regulations could require us or our customers to devote potentially material amounts of capital or other resources in order to comply with such regulations. These expenditures could have a material adverse impact on Enservco’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Enservco depends to a large extent on the services of some of its executive officers. The loss of the services of Michael D. Herman or Rick D. Kasch and/or Austin Peitz, or other key personnel, could disrupt the Company’s operations. Although the Company has entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Herman, Kasch and Peitz, that contain, among other things non-compete and confidentiality provisions, we may not be able to enforce the non-compete and/or confidentiality provisions in the employment agreements. 21 Debt Related Risks Our indebtedness could restrict our operations, make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions, and are collateralized by substantially all of Enservco’s assets. As a result of the Merger Transaction, Enservco has, and will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2010, Dillco owed approximately $12.3 million to banks (a significant portion of which has been guaranteed by Enservco) and another $1.7 million of subordinated debt to Mr. Herman, (who as a result of the Merger Transaction became the largest individual stockholder of the Company). Enservco’s current and future indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: § Impair our ability to make investments and obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes, § Limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, § Make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general as a substantial portion of our operating cash flow will be required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, making it more difficult to react to changes in our business and in industry and market conditions, § Put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have less debt, and § Increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases to the extent that we incur variable rate indebtedness. If Enservco is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain the funds required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various debt service covenants and/or reporting covenants in the business loan agreements or other instruments governing our current or any future indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of our credit facilities or such other instruments. In the event of a default, the holders of our indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed under those instruments to be due and payable together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments there under and we or one or more of our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquida tion. Any of the foregoing consequences could restrict our ability to grow our business and cause the value of our common stock to decline. 22 We may be unable to meet the obligations of various financial covenants that are contained in the terms of our loan agreements with Great Western Bank. Dillco’s agreements with Great Western Bank impose various obligations and financial covenants on Dillco, each of which Enservco has guaranteed. The outstanding amount under a line of credit with Great Western Bank is due in full in May 2011 unless it is renewed on a year-to-year basis. Additionally, the term loan with Great Western Bank requires that Dillco make a $1 million payment on or before June 2, 2011. Both of these loans with Great Western Bank have a variable interest rate, are guaranteed by all of Dillco’s subsidiaries and by Enservco, and are collateralized by substantially all of Dillco’s and Heat Waves’ equipment, inventory and accounts receivable. Further, the related agreements with Great Western Bank impose various financial covenants on Dillco including m aintaining a prescribed debt service ratio, minimum net worth, maximum leverage ratio, and limit the Company’s ability to incur additional debt obligations. If Dillco is unable to comply with its obligations and covenants under the loan agreements and it declares an event of default all of Dillco’s obligations to Great Western Bank could be immediately due. Enservco is a guarantor of to the debt owed to Great Western Bank. After closing the Merger Transaction, Enservco guaranteed Dillco’s debt to Great Western Bank (as it was obligated to do). As a result, any default by Dillco on its obligations to Great Western may directly impact Enservco directly. The agreements between Dillco and its primary lender contain cross default provisions with the debt of our principal shareholder, Michael D. Herman. Michael D. Herman is our principal shareholder, a director, and chief executive officer. Before closing of the Merger Transaction, Mr. Herman controlled Dillco and its affiliated entities, and had various personal and unrelated business loans with Great Western Bank. When DHW negotiated its loan agreements with Great Western Bank, the bank insisted that they contain cross default provisions, although Enservco is not a guarantor of Mr. Herman’s personal indebtedness. As a result of these cross-default provisions, should Mr. Herman default on any of the other debt he has through the bank in his personal capacity, the bank could declare Dillco’s loans in default and call upon Enservco’s guarantee with respect to Dillco’s loans (but not Mr. Herman’s separate obligations). ; Upon an event of default Dillco might not be able to immediately satisfy its obligations to Great Western Bank which would likely adversely impair Enservco’s ability to conduct its business operations and pay its other obligations necessary to maintain its business operations. The variable rate indebtedness with Great Western Bank subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Dillco’s borrowings through Great Western Bank bear interest at variable rates, exposing Enservco to interest rate risk. Absent our ability to hedge our variable rates, if such rates increase, Dillco’s debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same and the Company’s net income and cash available for servicing Dillco’s indebtedness would decrease. 23 Risks Related to Our Common Stock It is likely that any efforts we may make to raise capital or effect a business transaction will result in substantial additional dilution to our shareholders. As part of its growth strategy Enservco may desire to raise capital and or utilize its common stock to effect strategic business transactions. Either such action will likely require that Enservco issue equity (or debt) securities which would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Although we will attempt to minimize the dilutive impact of any future capital-raising activities or business transactions, we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to do so. If we are successful in raising additional working capital, we may have to issue additional shares of our common stock at prices that may be a discount from the then-current market price of our common stock. The majority of our common stock is currently considered restricted stock and our common stock is not currently eligible to be resold pursuant to Rule 144. A significant portion of our outstanding common stock is considered either “restricted shares” or “control shares” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The restricted shares may only be sold if they are registered under the Securities Act or qualify for exemption from registration under the Securities Act. However, because Aspen was a shell company until the closing of the Merger Transaction our restricted common stock is not currently eligible to be resold pursuant to Rule 144 until after July 27, 2011. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. The terms of Dillco’s existing senior credit facility restrict the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their i nvestment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules which limits the market for our common stock. Because our stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and since the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” SEC Rule 15g-9 under the 1934 Act imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” This includes the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customers concerning the risk of penny stocks. Many broker-dealers decline to participate in penny stock transactions because of the extra requirements imposed on penny stock t ransactions. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock reduces the market liquidity of our shares, which in turn affects the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the shares they purchase, and they may not be able to resell at prices at or above the prices they paid. 24 General Corporate Risks Risks of related party transactions. There are a number of related party transactions that were extant at DHW and its subsidiaries prior to, or entered into as a result of, the Merger Transaction. These include: · Mr. Herman’s subordinated loan to Heat Waves. In November 2009, Mr. Herman advanced $500,000 to Heat Waves to pay down long-term debt. Interest (at 3% per annum) is due annually in arrears. Heat Waves’ obligations to Mr. Herman are subordinated to Dillco’s obligations to Great Western Bank and accordingly, payment of interest is deferred. · Mr. Herman’s subordinated loan to Heat Waves. In March 2010, Mr. Herman advanced $1,200,000 to Heat Waves to pay down long-term debt. This advance was documented by a promissory note due on December 31, 2018. Interest (at 3% per annum) is due annually in arrears. Heat Waves’ obligations to Mr. Herman are subordinated to Dillco’s obligations to Great Western Bank and accordingly, payment of interest is deferred. · Mr. Herman’s sales of assets to Heat Waves prior to the Merger. In 2009, Mr. Herman sold assets from one of his companies, HNR, to Heat Waves for a value calculated based on an independent appraisal of a majority of the assets, but for no cash, only satisfaction of debt that HNR had owed to Heat Waves. In another transaction, Mr. Herman sold his interest in Real GC to Heat Waves, also in satisfaction of debt. In a third transaction, Mr. Herman sold a disposal well to HES for $100,000, payable to Mr. Herman in cash on or before September 15, 2010 (which amount was paid on August 11, 2010). These transactions occurred before the Merger took place (although payment for the disposal well sold to HES will be made after the Merger Transaction), but there can be no assurance that the transactions occurred at fair market value. As a result of the Merger Transaction, Mr. Herman directly and indirectly owns approximately 60% of Enservco’s outstanding common stock and therefore controls Enservco through his stock ownership. While the transactions set forth above were all known to the Aspen’s board of directors prior to the Merger Transaction (which was negotiated at arms’ length) and believed to be fair to and in the best interests of the merged companies, there can be no assurance that the existence of some of these transactions may not at some time in the future adversely impact Enservco or Mr. Herman. Indemnification of officers and directors may result in unanticipated expenses. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with us or activities on our behalf. We also will bear the expenses of such litigation for any of their directors, officers, employees, or agents, upon such person’s promise to repay them if it is ultimately determined that any such person shall not have been entitled to indemnification. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures by us that we may be unable to recoup and could direct funds away fro m our business and products (if any). 25 We have significant obligations under the 1934 Act. Because we are a public company filing reports under the 1934 Act, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and extensive and complex regulation. The Securities and Exchange Commission has the right to review the accuracy and completeness of our reports, press releases, and other public documents. In addition, we are subject to extensive requirements to institute and maintain financial accounting controls and for the accuracy and completeness of our books and records. Normally these activities are overseen by an audit committee consisting of qualified independent directors. A majority of our Board of Directors currently does not consist of directors that are considered “independent.” Consequently, the protections normally provided to stockholders by boards of di rectors comprised by a majority of persons considered “independent” directors are not available. Although we hope to appoint qualified independent directors in the future should we enter into a business combination or acquire a business, we cannot offer any assurance that we will locate any person willing to serve in that capacity. Forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate. In our effort to make the information in this report more meaningful, this report contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meanings of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the 1934 Act. Forward-looking statements in this report are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the current expectations of our management concerning future results and events. It should be noted that because we are a “penny stock,” the protections provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the 1934 Act do not apply to us. We have attempted to qualify our forward-looking statements with appropriate cautionary language to take advan tage of the judicially-created doctrine of “bespeaks caution” and other protections. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance and achievements to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements in this prospectus. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on our future results. Risk of change of control. As a result of the completion of the Merger Transaction, Mr. Herman directly and indirectly owns approximately 60% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Mr. Herman has significant personal indebtedness with Great Western Bank, the principal lender to Dillco. Mr. Herman has granted the Bank a blanket lien on his personal assets. Therefore, should Mr. Herman default on his personal indebtedness to the Bank, the Bank may institute a collection action which could result in the transfer of Mr. Herman’s interest in Enservco to the Bank – which transfer would result in a change of control. 26 Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay a change in control or a takeover. Provisions in our bylaws provide certain requirements for the nomination of directors which preclude a stockholder from nominating a candidate to stand for election at any annual meeting. As described in Section 2.12 of the Company’s bylaws, nominations must be presented to the Company well in advance of a scheduled annual meeting, and the notification must include specific information as set forth in that section. The Company believes that such a provision provides reasonable notice of the nominees to the board of directors, but it may preclude stockholder nomination at a meeting where the stockholder is not familiar with nomination procedures and, therefore, may prevent or delay a change of control or takeover. Furthermore, Delaware recently added §112 to its general corporation law to pro vide that Delaware corporations may amend their bylaws to require the corporation to include in its proxy materials one or more nominees submitted by stockholders in addition to individuals nominated by the board of directors, subject to certain conditions that may be imposed. The Securities and Exchange Commission recently adopted rules that are also intended to help shareholders nominees for election, but at the present time the Company is not subject to the newly enacted regulations, and has not amended its bylaws to provide stockholder access. Therefore, stockholders who desire to nominate directors may not be able to take advantage of certain newly enacted statutes and regulations which is another factor that may delay or prevent a change of control or a takeover. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 