ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in the Form 10-K. The risks described below are the ones we deem to be material to our business, but are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed materially. We have experienced declines in net sales, and, if we fail to implement our new product strategy, we may continue to experience declines in sales and gross margins. In each of the past three years our net sales have declined significantly and our future financial results are anticipated to be subject to substantial fluctuations. Our total net sales were $78.8 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, $95.6 million for the calendar year ended December 31, 2004, and $103.6 million for the calendar year ended December 31, 2003. We anticipate that sales of our legacy products will continue to decline over time. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our new product strategy, which consists partly of refocusing our business on the next generation of micrologic products built around our core 8-bit micrologic architecture, beginning with the Z8 Encore! and eZ80 Acclaim! flash products. In November 2002 we launched our new 8-bit Z8 Encore! micrologic product, in February 2003 we launched our eZ80 Acclaim! micrologic product and in March 2004 our enhanced Z8 Encore! XP flash product family. These products typically have a long lead time from design to production, which can range from twelve months to thirty-six months. These new flash products represented approximately 9% of our net sales for the year ended March 31, 2006, and we currently expect the contribution of these products to continue to grow. If we are unable to develop new products in a manner that timely meets changing market requirements, or if we are not able to achieve significant sales of our new 8-bit micrologic products for any reason, our product strategy may fail and our net sales and operating results may continue to decline or not grow as currently expected. In addition, as we introduce new products, including our flash and IR products, we experience additional start up costs and unfavorable manufacturing prices due to low volume. In addition, we do not expect margins on our flash products to be as strong as those on our legacy products for the foreseeable future. Consequently, the introduction of new products could have a negative impact on our gross margin even if sales from such new products offset declining revenues of our legacy products. If we are unable to obtain adequate production capacity or quality, our business will be harmed. We rely on independent third-party foundry manufacturers including X-FAB, TSMC, and UMC to fabricate wafers for all of our product needs. Industry-wide shortages in foundry capacity could harm our financial results. If we are unable to obtain the requisite foundry capacity to manufacture our products, or if we have to pay higher than anticipated prices to foundries in periods of tight capacity, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demand for our products. Any delay in initiating production at third-party foundries, any inability to have new products manufactured at such foundries or any failure to meet our customers’ demands could damage our relationships with our customers and may decrease our sales. Other significant risks associated with relying on these third-party foundries include: · reduced control over the cost of our products, delivery schedules, capacity constraints and product quality; · limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; · increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our technology; 14 · yield or quality issues with the supplier which could result in us being unable to supply product to customers or providing product that doe not meet their quality or performance standards; · vulnerability to third-party foundries’ financial, operations or production difficulties; and · the time and cost associated with switching or sourcing alternate foundries. We may require additional capital in the future, and additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Based on our existing financial plans and forecasts we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our planned capital needs for the next 12 months. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our future activities. We may be able to raise these funds by selling securities to the public or selected investors, or by borrowing money. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our operations significantly, reduce planned capital expenditures and research and development, make selective dispositions of our assets or obtain funds through arrangements with strategic partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies or potential markets, or otherwise impair our ability to remain competitive. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for test and information technology and equipment to remain competitive, the failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation of which could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our capital expenditures were $4.2 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, $4.4 million and $1.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We may be required to increase our future capital expenditures to meet increased demand. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required, and in the future is likely to continue to require, a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. Even though we outsource our manufacturing, we are required to spend funds on mask designs and process technology improvements to remain competitive. We maintain certain of our own test facilities, which have required and will continue to require significant investments test technology and equipment. We also may incur significant costs to implement new test equipment and information technologies to increase our productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new test or information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our balance sheet. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in test equipment or information technology and equipment. Interruptions in information technology systems could affect our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business, especially between the Philippines and our San Jose, California headquarters. Any significant system or network disruption, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, and energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We have implemented measures to manage our risks related to such disruptions, but 15 such disruptions could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. If we are unable to prevail in a patent litigation lawsuit we may incur substantial monetary liability and may be required or change our business practices. On August 11, 2005 Microchip Technology Inc. (Microchip) filed a patent infringement claim against the Company in the U.S. District Court of Arizona (case number CV05-2406-PHX-MHM). Microchip alleges that the Company has been infringing and currently infringes its patents numbered 5,847,450, 6,696,316 and 6,483,183. Microchip claims that unspecified products of the company, including the Z8 Encore! XP 4K Series of products, infringe these patents and is seeking preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, unspecified damages and costs including attorneys’ fees. We filed a response to the claims on September 15, 2005 generally denying the claims and challenging the validity of the patents. On January 10, 2006, the Company filed a request for patent reexamination with the U.S. PTO which was granted in February and March for all three patents. On March 13 2006, the Company was informed that its motion to stay with the Federal court of Arizona was granted until such time as Microchip is informed of the outcome of the re-examinations. We do not believe it is feasible to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of this litigation at this time. We believe we have meritorious defenses and will defend ourselves against these claims vigorously. We may incur substantial expenses in our defense against these claims. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial monetary liability, and be required to change our business practices. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. We depend on third-party assemblers throughout Asia, including Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines, and the failure of these third parties to continue to provide services to us on sufficiently favorable terms could harm our business. We use outside contract assemblers in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines for packaging our products. These countries have been subject to political instability and terrorist activities. The packaging of semiconductors is a complex process requiring, among other things, a high degree of technical skill and advanced equipment. If we are unable to obtain additional assembly capacity on sufficiently favorable terms, our ability to maintain or grow our net sales could be impaired. Shortages in contract assembly capacity could cause shortages in our products and could also result in the loss of customers as a result of delays. Because we rely on these third parties, we also have less control over our costs, delivery schedules and quality of our products and our technology is at greater risk of misappropriation. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Our operating results depend on our ability to introduce and sell new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively based on price and performance and that address customer requirements. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and our customers and potential customers introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for new products and technologies. In the past, we have brought products to market on an untimely basis or canceled the introduction of previously planned products, such as our Cartezian line of 32-bit microprocessors. Our ability to introduce and sell new products successfully depends on several factors, including: • development of support tools and technical documentation that make complex products easy for engineers to understand and use; 16 • proper new product selection; • timely completion and introduction of new product designs; • support from our foundry service providers; • complexity of the new products to be designed and manufactured; and • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products. The emphasis of our new product development is on the next generation of products built on our 8-bit micrologic architecture. If market demand for these products does not develop as we anticipate, our product development strategy could fail. Because our products are complex, we may not meet the design and introduction schedules for any new products or any additions or modifications to our existing products, and these products may not achieve market acceptance. In addition, we may not be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. We may be unable to make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. We are committed to maintaining spending on new product development in order to stay competitive in our markets. There can be no assurances that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by price erosion, rapid technological change and heightened competition in many markets. The industry consists of major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. Emerging companies are also increasing their participation in the semiconductor industry. Our current and future products compete with, or may compete with, products offered by Atmel, Cypress Semiconductor, Intel, Microchip, Freescale, National Semiconductor, Renasas, ST Microelectronics and Texas Instruments, among others. Some of our principal products such as the Z80 microprocessor are licensed by our competitors, or are in the public domain, and can be manufactured and sold to our customers by our competitors, possibly with added features or at lower prices than we charge. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including: • our ability to design and manufacture new products that implement new technologies, including our eZ80 Acclaim! and Z8 Encore! product families; • our ability to protect our products by effectively utilizing intellectual property laws; • our product quality, reliability, ease of use and price; • the diversity of our product line and feature sets within our products; • our efficiency of production; • our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; • the pace at which customers incorporate our devices into their products; and • the success of our competitors’ products and general economic conditions. 17 Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate and may fail to meet expectations, which may cause the price of our securities to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet expectations, the price of our securities could fluctuate or decline significantly. In addition, high proportions of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development and manufacturing costs. Therefore, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. A variety of factors could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, including: • our ability to introduce and sell new products and technologies on a timely basis, such as our Z8 Encore! and eZ80 Acclaim! device families and extensions of these product families; • any shortage of wafer or assembly manufacturing capacity at our third-party vendors; • competitive developments, including pricing pressures; • technological change and product obsolescence; • changes in product mix or fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • variability of our customers’ product life cycles; • the level of orders that we receive and can ship in a quarter and customer order patterns; • seasonality; • inventory write-downs or asset impairments; • restructuring charges; • increases in the cost or scarcity of raw materials; and • gain or loss of significant customers. We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter, and therefore our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter and shipments from backlog. Our backlog at the beginning of each quarter does not include all sales needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Consequently, we are dependent on obtaining orders to be shipped in the same quarter that the order is received for a significant portion of net sales in that quarter. Moreover, customers may reschedule shipments, and production difficulties could delay shipments. Accordingly, we have limited visibility into future product shipments, and our results of operations may be subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, and have experienced a downturn in the business cycle, which has materially adversely affected our revenues and cash generation. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant economic downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, erosion of average selling prices, production over-capacity and high inventory levels. For example, beginning in the quarter ended December 31, 2000, we experienced a three-year downturn in our business cycle. We believe that, in light of these events, some of our customers curtailed and may in the future delay or further curtail spending on technology, which could negatively affect our quarterly results or financial condition in the future. Similar economic downturn in the semiconductor industry could increase pressure on us to reduce our prices, which could impair our 18 revenues, gross margins and operating cash flow. From time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. We have in the past experienced substantial period-to-period declines in operating results, and will likely in the future experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results that are attributable to semiconductor industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. Average selling prices in the semiconductor industry typically decline over time, which directly affects our revenue and margins. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry have decreased over the life of any particular product. To the extent that our products achieve market acceptance, competitors typically seek to offer competitive products or embark on discount pricing strategies. We have in the past and may in the future be required to reduce selling prices in response to competition. From time to time technology and manufacturing changes have the impact of lower average selling prices, such as the conversion of hardware to software modems and packaged to die only sales. If we are unable to offset any reductions in the selling prices of our products by introducing new products at higher prices or by reducing our costs, our revenues, gross margins and operating results could be impaired. In addition, if the price at which we can sell products in our inventory declines below the cost of such products we may be required to write down the value of such inventory. A significant amount of our revenues comes from relatively few of our customers and distributors, and any decrease of revenues from these customers and distributors, or the loss of their business, could significantly harm our financial results. Historically we have been, and we expect to continue to be, dependent on a relatively small number of distributors for a significant portion of our revenues. We depend on third-party distributors to market and sell our products, and these third-party distributors accounted for approximately 56% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, 50% for the three months ended March 31, 2005, and 49% and 47% of our net sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition, our five largest distributors accounted for approximately 44% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, 40% for the three months ended March 31, 2005, and 37% of net sales for 2004. One distribution customer accounted for approximately 24% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, 20% for the three months ended March 31, 2005, and 20% and 18% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our distributors decide whether to include our products among those that they sell, and they may carry and sell product lines that are competitive with ours. Because our distributors are not required to make a specified minimum level of purchases from us, we cannot be sure that they will prioritize selling our products. We also rely on our distributors to accurately report to us on a timely basis their sales of our products and provide certain support services to our customers. Our inability to obtain accurate and timely reports and to successfully manage these relationships could materially adversely affect our business and financial reports. Our distributors may not continue to effectively market, sell or support our products. During the quarter ended December 31, 2005, one of our European distributors merged with another company. As a result of this transition, personnel assigned to the ZiLOG account may be reallocated or the level of service or amount of our product that is carried could change. Any such changes or future consolidation activity by our distributors could harm our results of operations. We depend on relatively few major customers for a substantial portion of our sales. Our ten largest customers, excluding our distributors, accounted for approximately 33% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, 31% for the three months ended March 31, 2005, and 37% and 38% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, three months ended March 31, 2005, and the twelve months ended 19 December 31, 2004 and 2003, we had one distribution customer that accounted for 24%, 20%, 20% and 18% of our net sales, respectively. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, three months ended March 31, 2005, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, we had one OEM customer that accounted for 10%, 12%, 12% and 11% of our net sales, respectively. Concentration of net sales to particular customers may change from period to period, but we expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues in any particular period for the foreseeable future. We have very few long-term contracts with our customers, and, like us, our customers typically compete in cyclical industries. We routinely purchase inventory based on customers’ estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. Thus, our customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or to alter their purchasing patterns on short notice, particularly because substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order or sales order acknowledgment basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments. Any of our large customers may choose to exit the business we supply or partner with or acquire product from our competitors. Should this occur our results of operations would likely be harmed. The loss of one or more major customers or any reduction, delay or cancellation of orders by any of these customers or our failure to market successfully to new customers could result in a significant reduction in net sales during one or more periods, excess inventory or write-downs of inventory. Our revenue may decline if customers for whom we are sole source providers seek alternative sources of supply. We serve as the sole source provider for some of our OEM customers. Those customers may choose to reduce their dependence on us by seeking second sources of supply, which could reduce our revenue. To remain a sole source provider, we must continue to demonstrate to our customers that we have adequate alternate sources for components, that we maintain adequate alternatives for production, and that we can deliver value added products on a timely basis. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries that could impair our results of operations. Approximately 60% of our net sales for the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, approximately 66% of our net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2005, approximately 66% and 66% of our net sales for the twelve month periods ended December 31, 2004, and, 2003, respectively, calculated consistent with revenue recognition of distribution revenue on a deferred (re-sale) basis were made to foreign countries. These sales to foreign customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. We maintain significant operations or rely on a number of contract manufacturers in the Philippines, Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand, India and other locations in Asia. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include: • economic and political instability; • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; • transportation delays; • power supply shortages and shutdowns; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems; • existence of language barriers and cultural distinctions; • acts of God, including floods, typhoons and earthquakes; 20 • Taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; and • other uncertainties relating to the administration of, or changes in, or new interpretation of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In addition, our activities outside the United States are subject to risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchanges rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. While our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate fluctuations, and such fluctuations could harm our operating results materially. The risks inherent in our international operations have been increased by the threat of terrorist attacks. These attacks, coupled with an international military response, have created an uncertain economic environment, and we cannot predict the impact of these political threats or any related military action, on our customers or our business. We have had a history of losses, and we may not be profitable in the future. We have had a history of losses for each of the years in the six-year period ended March 31, 2006, excluding the one-time gain on extinguishment of debt and fresh-start adjustments in 2002. We may not be profitable in the future. We depend on key personnel, and the loss of our current personnel or our failure to hire and retain additional personnel could harm our business. We depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical and managerial personnel. We believe that our future success in developing marketable products and achieving a competitive position will depend in large part on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, executive, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in Northern California, where our headquarters are located, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Our failure to recruit and retain necessary technical, executive, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel could harm our business and our ability to obtain new customers and develop new products. In addition, our history of losses and our bankruptcy filing could impair our ability to recruit and retain employees. We do not have employment contracts with any of our executive officers. As employee incentives, we issue common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at time of the grant and that are subject to vesting. At times, our stock price has declined substantially, reducing the effectiveness of these incentives. We may fail to protect our proprietary rights, and the cost of protecting those rights, whether we are successful or not, may harm our ability to compete. The extent and value of our intellectual property is necessarily uncertain, and our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be successful. Despite our precautions, a third party may copy or otherwise obtain our devices or technology without authorization, requiring patent litigation to enforce our rights. Patent litigation is, by its nature, expensive and unpredictable. If litigated, one or more of our patents may be found invalid or unenforceable or to have claims of such narrow scope as to be of little economic value. Third parties may design around our patents. Third parties may independently develop technology similar to our trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries where we have patent and trademark rights may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Additionally, our pending and future patent applications should not be relied upon as they may not issue as patents, and even if they do issue, such future patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful economic or competitive value. 21 Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation may be unsuccessful and could require us to incur substantial costs and divert significant valuable resources, including the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may harm our business materially. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, both defensive and offensive. In addition to the Microchip lawsuit described elsewhere, from time to time we have received, and may in the future receive, communications from other third parties asserting that a product offered by us, or an aspect of our business, infringes a patent held by the other third party and/or requires a license thereto. With respect to those other third party communications that are currently pending, we believe, after having consulted with counsel, that either (i) we have meritorious defenses, (ii) based on license terms previously offered to us or typically available in the industry, we can obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or (iii) we can modify our products to avoid such rights, but if this is not the case, we may be sued and assessed damages for past infringement. Indeed, licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to the infringement of third party intellectual property rights by our devices. We have received in the past a letter from an electronic equipment manufacturer that makes products that are competitive to certain of our key products, asserting that the sale of certain of our key products may be infringing certain patents owned by them. After having consulted with counsel, we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the assertions set forth in the letter. However, should it become necessary to engage in litigation to defend against such assertions, such litigation could be expensive and time consuming. There can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of this matter would not have a material adverse affect on our business. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. The cost of defending against patent infringement or other intellectual property litigation, in terms of management time and attention, legal fees and product delays, could be substantial, whatever the outcome. If any patent or other intellectual property claims against us are successful, we may be prohibited from using the technologies subject to these claims, and if we are unable to obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology, or design new technology to avoid infringement, we could be prohibited from using or selling the infringing products or technologies and be required to pay substantial damages. Such a result could have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 We could be forced to spend significant time and money on products that contain, or are rumored to contain, design defects or errors. Because the design and production process for semiconductors is highly complex, we may produce products whose design deviates from published specifications. In addition, one or more of our products may be found to contain production defects after we have already shipped such products. These production defects could be caused by either raw materials or errors in the production process. If errors or production defects are discovered after we have already shipped one or more of our products in volume, we could be materially adversely affected in one or more of the following ways: • replacements or recalls could impose substantial costs on us; • rumors, false or otherwise, may be circulated by the press and other media, which could cause a decrease in sales of our products; and • customers or end users may file suits or assert other legal claims against us alleging damages caused by defective products or errors in products. If we do not successfully defend such suits, we could be required to pay substantial damages. Even if we prevail in suits filed by customers or end users, we may be required to expend significant funds in defense. Changes in technologies or consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. As a result of technological changes, from time to time our customers change the design of their products so as not to include our products, which may have a negative impact on our net sales. For example, in 1999 and 2000, a number of our customers changed the designs of computer mouse pointing devices that they manufactured, and as a result, these devices no longer contain our products. Because we do not have long-term supply contracts with most of our customers, changes in the designs of their products can have sudden and significant impacts on our sales. For example, net sales of our computer mouse pointing devices and other computer peripheral products decreased substantially from approximately $15.4 million in 2000 to approximately $4.9 million in 2001, approximately $2.4 million in 2002, approximately $0.7 million for 2003, approximately $0.1 million for 2004 and less than $0.1 for fiscal 2006. These reduced sales due to design changes have harmed us in the past, and additional design changes could result in lower revenues in the future. We may forecast the future demand for our products incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Since we must order products and build inventory substantially in advance of product shipments, we may forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. The ability of our customers to reschedule or cancel orders without significant penalty could adversely affect our liquidity, as we may be unable to adjust our purchases from our wafer suppliers to match any customer changes and cancellations. As part of our business strategy, we maintain a substantial inventory of sorted wafers in a die bank but limit our investment in finished goods. We may have adequate wafer inventory to meet customer needs but may be unable to finish the manufacturing process prior to the delivery date specified by the customer. Demand for our products is volatile and customers often place orders with short lead times. Our inventory may not be reduced by sufficient demand of customer orders and in the future we may produce excess quantities of our products. It is our policy to fully write down all inventories that we do not expect to be sold in a reasonable period of time. During recent fiscal years, as a result of changes in estimated demand for our various products, we have taken charges for write down of inventories. For example, we recorded inventory write-down charges of $1.9 million in December 31, 2004, for excess inventories associated with the closure of our MOD II wafer fabrication facility in July 2004. We may suffer reductions in values of our inventories in 23 the future and we may be unable to liquidate our inventory at acceptable prices. To the extent we have excess inventories of particular products, our operating results could be adversely affected by charges to cost of revenues that we would be required to recognize due to significant reductions in demand for our products or rapid declines in the market value of our inventory, resulting in inventory write downs or other adverse consequences. We have implemented significant cost cutting measures, and we may be required to implement additional cost cutting measures depending upon our future revenues and operating results. We have implemented significant cost cutting measures in the past, including during the twelve months ended March 31, 2006. These cost cutting efforts have included: • restructuring our manufacturing operations, which has included closing and subsequently outsourcing all of our wafer fabrication and assembly operations and consolidating probe and final test operations, as well as certain customer service and accounting functions at our Philippines site; • refocusing our strategic priorities; • reallocating personnel and responsibilities to better utilize human resources; • reducing our workforce; and • instituting temporary office and facility shutdowns. Cost cutting measures may not increase our efficiency or lead to profitability. In the past we have reduced our spending on research and development. Reducing research and development spending could harm our ability to introduce new products in the future. If our revenue or operating results significantly decline in the future, we may be required to institute further cost reduction measures. From time to time, we evaluate our strategic alternatives with respect to our facilities and we may take actions, such as our sales of certain assets of MOD II and the remaining assets of our MOD III subsidiary, which may result in the occurrence of accounting charges. Some or all of these charges may be non-cash. Such charges would have a negative impact on our GAAP profitability and may have a negative impact on our cash balance. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on us. Until 2005 we operated a wafer fabrication facility. Our manufacturing processes required us to use various hazardous substances, and, as a result, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing the storage, use, emission, discharge and disposal of, and human exposure to, such substances. In particular, the process of manufacturing silicon wafers used large amounts of corrosive and other hazardous chemicals and huge quantities of distilled, de-ionized water. Our failure to comply with present or future laws and regulations or the loss of any permit required to conduct our business could result in fines being imposed on us or other penalties. Any failure by us to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that could materially harm our business, have a materially adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations, including under laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Recently, laws and regulations have been enacted in several European Union member countries, including several jurisdictions in which we operate, restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and holding producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Specifically, the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, 24 and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directives. The RoHS directive prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, mercury, cadmium and chromium, in covered products placed on the market after July 1, 2006. The WEEE directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the European Union to clearly mark the equipment, register with and report to European Union regulators regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to recall and properly dispose of the equipment. Each European Union member country has enacted, or is expected to soon enact, legislation clarifying what is and what is not covered by the WEEE directive in that country. However, there is still some uncertainty in certain European Union countries as to which party involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic equipment will be ultimately held responsible. If we are deemed to be a manufacturer of covered products, we may be required to register as a producer in certain European Union countries, and incur financial responsibility with respect to products sold within the European Union, including products of other manufacturers that have been replaced by our products. We may also incur substantial costs to change our contract partners manufacturing processes, redesign or reformulate, and obtain substitute components for, our products that are deemed covered products under the ROHS directive. If we fail to timely provide RoHS-compliant products, we will not be able to offer our products within European Union, and we may be subject to civil or criminal liabilities. Similar laws have been proposed and may be enacted in other locations where we sell our products, including various jurisdictions within the United States. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and ensure, as appropriate or required, that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. If we fail to timely comply with such laws, we could face sanctions for such noncompliance and our customers further may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to environmental remediation, we could incur substantial costs for the clean up of contaminated properties, either those we own or operate or to which we have sent wastes in the past. Under certain of these laws and regulations, current or previous owners or operators of property may be liable for cleanup costs and other damages without regard to whether they knew of, or caused, the contamination. The presence of, or failure to remediate, contamination could materially adversely affect the value of, and the ability to transfer or encumber, our property. In addition, we may be required to incur significant expense in connection with governmental investigation of environmental or employee health and safety matters. We may engage in acquisitions and other forms of business combinations or partnerships that could materially adversely affect our operating results, dilute our stockholders’ equity, or cause us to incur additional debt or assume contingent liabilities. To increase our business and maintain our competitive position, we have made acquisitions in the past and may do so in the future. Acquisitions and other forms of business combinations or partnerships involve a number of risks that could harm our business and result in the acquired business not performing as expected, including: • insufficient experience with technologies and markets in which the acquired or combined business is involved, which may be necessary to successfully operate and integrate the business; • problems integrating the acquired or combined operations, personnel, technologies or products with the existing business and products; • diversion of management time and attention from our core business to the acquired or combined business; • potential failure to retain key technical, management, sales and other personnel of the acquired or combined business; 25 • difficulties in retaining relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired or combined business; and • subsequent impairment of the acquired or combined assets, including intangible assets. In addition, acquisitions and other forms of business combinations or partnerships could require investment of significant financial resources and may require us to obtain additional equity financing, which may dilute our stockholders’ equity, or to incur additional indebtedness. Acts of war or terrorism could harm our business. The long-term effects of potential terrorist attacks on the world economy and our business are unknown, but could be material to our business. Terrorist acts or acts of war, whether in the United States or abroad, also could cause damage or disruption to our business, our suppliers, our freight carriers, or our customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or failure to maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures could harm our business and operating results and/or result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Under rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, we were required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404: In the course of our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, we identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which are more fully described under Item 9A, Controls and Procedures in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. In addition, in the course of our ongoing 2005 evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, we identified a failure to record and thereby disclose in our 2004 Form 10-K certain grants of options to purchase: (1) 160,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $12.44 and; (2) 45,884 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.20. These grants were issued to our Chief Executive Officer in the quarter ended June 30, 2004 as more fully described under Item 4, Controls and Procedures, of our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2005. A footnote to the beneficial ownership table explaining the beneficial ownership of certain stock options held by our CEO was also incorrect. This reporting deficiency and the above material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting disclosed previously in our 2004 Form 10-K, as well as any other weaknesses or deficiencies that may exist or hereafter arise or be identified, could harm our business and operating results, and could result in adverse publicity and a loss in investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, and, if such weaknesses are not properly remediated, could materially adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. Moreover, we operate with a relatively small accounting staffing level and use supplemental resources such as contractors and consultants to provide additional accounting and finance support. The loss of accounting personnel, particularly our chief financial officer, could materially adversely impact the 26 effectiveness of our control environment and our internal controls, including our internal controls over financial reporting. Additionally, we have migrated certain accounting functions from the U.S. to our Philippines operations. Failure to properly hire, train and supervise the work of our accounting staff, including those in the Philippines, could materially adversely impact our control environment and our internal controls, including internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe that we have remediated these weaknesses and deficiencies and our disclosure control failure, we cannot assure you that this remediation has been successful or that additional deficiencies or weaknesses in our controls and procedures will not be identified. In addition, we cannot assure you that our independent registered public accounting firm will agree with our assessment that our material weaknesses have been remediated. Change in fiscal calendar and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 report: On December 29, 2005, our Board of Directors unanimously adopted resolutions to change our fiscal year end from December 31 to March 31. We revised our fiscal year so that our audit work can be performed during non-peak periods with our independent registered public accountants, which we believe will result in cost savings over the long-term. During the on-going reviews of our internal controls, during the three month period ended December 31, 2005, we identified deficiencies in our information technology controls, including the need to better segregate duties as it relates to the use of our Oracle Information Systems modules and to improve our General Computing Controls compliance and documentation. We have completed a thorough review of our control environment and have made improvements to our information technology controls in the areas where these deficiencies were identified. Although remediation of our information technology controls continue, our findings to date have not uncovered any errors, misstatements or acts of fraud that would lead us to conclude that we have any material weaknesses as of March 31, 2006. In December, 2005 the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a change in its accelerated filer rules such that a company with a market capitalization, that is the number of shares outstanding multiplied by its trading value per share, of less than $50 million may be considered a non-accelerated filer and as such is exempt from the management confirmation and independent registered public accountant’s attestation requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley 404. At September 30, 2005, our market capitalization was below this measure and as such we will not be an accelerated filer for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 and will not include the management certification and our independent registered public accounting firm attestation over internal controls over financial reporting in this Form 10-K. Recently enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations may increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance practices. The Act also requires the SEC to promulgate new rules on a variety of subjects. These new rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, and made some activities more difficult, time consuming and/or more costly. We also expect that these new rules and regulations may make it more costly to obtain director and officer liability insurance coverage, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. 27 Changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States may materially adversely affect our reported financial results or otherwise harm our business. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, while current accounting rules allow us to exclude some expense of stock options from our financial statements, effective for fiscal years beginning in 2007, the Company will be required to include the expenses of these options and the 15% discount employees receive on purchase under the employee stock purchase plan in the income statement in accordance with FAS 123R. Technology companies generally, and our company, specifically, rely heavily on stock options as a major component of our employee compensation packages. Because we will soon be required to expense options, we may be less likely to achieve profitability or we may have to decrease or eliminate options grants. Decreasing or eliminating option grants on our employee stock option program may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. The impact may materially adversely affect our reported financial results. Changes in our business conditions could result in impairment of our goodwill. In accordance with SFAS No.142 Accounting for Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets the Company must perform at least an annual testing of the Company’s stated value of its net assets including goodwill and other intangible assets in relation to the implied fair market value of the Company. If the Company’s market capitalization or fair market value declines, we may be required to record financial adjustments to the stated values of our goodwill and other intangible assets resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our North American distributor could emphasize competing products, and we may lose some of our customers as a result. In October 2002, we engaged Future Electronics as our exclusive full-service distributor in North America. Additionally, Future Electronics provides distributor support to us in Europe and Asia on a non-exclusive basis. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2006, Future purchases were approximately $18.6 million or 24% of net sales. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, Future purchased approximately $19.3 million and $18.3 million or 20% and 18% of net sales, respectively. Future Electronics distributes products of our competition that may directly compete with our product offerings. If Future Electronics chooses to promote those products over our products, our operating results could be harmed significantly. In addition, if Future Electronics were to terminate our distribution agreement, we could experience a period of significant interruption of our business while we obtained other distribution channels. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in control that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us even if that change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and 28 • prohibiting stockholders from taking action by written consent. In addition, provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Our directors, named executive officers and our two largest stockholders, who beneficially own approximately 36% of our common stock in the aggregate, may have interests that conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our directors and named executive officers, together with two large stockholders, UBS Willow Management, L.L.C., and funds managed by Capital Research and Management Company beneficially owned approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, as of March 31, 2006. As a result of their ownership and positions, our directors and named executive officers, together with UBS Willow Management and Capital Research and Management Company, collectively are able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. The investment objectives of our largest institutional stockholders may differ from those of our other stockholders, including our future public stockholders. 