ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Enservco’s securities are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk, including among other items the risk factors described below. The below risk factors are intended to generally describe certain risks that could materially affect the Company and its current business operations and activities. You should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere herein in connection with any decision whether to acquire, hold or sell the Company’s securities. If any of the contingencies discussed in the following paragraphs or other materially adverse events actually occurs, the business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or a significant part of your investment. Operations Related Risks We had a $2.7 million working capital deficit at December 31, 2011 which, if not remediated, may restrict our future operations. At December 31, 2011, our working capital deficit (current assets less current liabilities) was approximately $2.7 million. Unless we are able to refinance our debt facilities with our primary lender, raise sufficient financing, or improve our working capital through results of operations during the next fiscal year to address our working capital deficit and other operational issues resulting from this working capital deficit, our operations may be adversely affected. While the Company believes it has made the necessary steps to improve and eliminate the working capital deficit through results of operations going forward and has initiated steps to refinance our debt and raise sufficient financing, we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness with our primary lender or raise sufficient financing to adequately remediate these working capital deficit concerns. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain of our executive officers. The loss of the services of Michael D. Herman or Rick D. Kasch and/or Austin Peitz, or other key personnel, could disrupt our operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Herman, Kasch and Peitz, that contain, among other things non-compete and confidentiality provisions, we may not be able to enforce the non-compete and/or confidentiality provisions in the employment agreements. We depend on several significant customers, and a loss of one or more significant customers could adversely affect our results of operations. Enservco’s customers consist primarily of major and independent oil and natural gas companies. During fiscal years 2011 and 2010, only one of the Company’s customers accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues at approximately 12% during 2011 and 13% during 2010 (all other customers were individually less than 9% and 7% of revenues during these years, respectively). The Company notes, that though there was only one customer that accounted for more than 10% of revenues during 2011, the Company’s top five customers accounted for approximately 38% of its total revenues during the year. The loss of any one of these customers or a sustained decrease in demand by any of such customers could result in a substantial loss of revenues and could have a material adverse effect on Enservco’s results of operations. While the Company believes its equipment could be redeployed in the current market environment if Dillco and/or Heat Waves lost any material customers, such loss could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business until the equipment is redeployed. Except as discussed in the preceding sentences, we believe that the market for Enservco’s services is sufficiently diversified that it is not dependent on any single customer or a few major customers. 13 Our business depends on domestic spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Customers’ expectations for lower market prices for oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may cause them to curtail spending, thereby reducing demand for our services and equipment. As an example, Enservco believes the weak global economy and decrease in demand for oil and natural gas during much of 2009 significantly contributed to the Company’s net loss of approximately $5.9 million in fiscal 2009. On the other hand, the generally improving economic conditions and increasing activity in the oil and gas industry in late 2010 and throughout 2011 has likely benefitted Enservco. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which Enservco has no control, such as the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, weather conditions, political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries (such as currently occurring in the Middle East), and merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the consequent impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling and activity by some of our customers. This reduction may cause a decline in the demand for Enservco’s services or adversely affect the price of its services. In addition, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in Enservco’s market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on its business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced and the number of producing wells for Enservco to service declines. On-going volatility and uncertainty in the global economic environment has caused the oilfield services industry to experience volatility in terms of demand, and the rate at which demand may slow, or return to former levels, is uncertain. At times the recent volatility in prices for oil and natural gas has led many oil and natural gas producers to announce reductions in their capital budgets for certain periods. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause these and other oil and natural gas producers to make on-going or additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices increase from current levels. These cuts in spending will curtail drilling programs as well as discretionary spending on well services, which may result in a reduction in the demand for Enservco’s services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. In addition, certain of Enservco’s customers could become unable to pay their suppliers, including Enservco. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect our operating results. If oil and natural gas prices remain volatile it could have an adverse effect on the demand for our services. The demand for many of our services is primarily determined by current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices, and the related general production spending and level of drilling activity in the areas in which we have operations. 14 Though we feel the domestic oil and gas industry has rebounded in 2011 as compared to prior years, prices for oil and natural gas historically have been extremely volatile in prior years and likely will continue to be volatile. Volatility or weakness in oil and natural gas prices (or the perception that oil and natural gas prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of our customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells or lower production spending on existing wells. This, in turn, could result in lower demand for our services and may cause lower rates and lower utilization of Enservco’s well service equipment. Higher oil and gas prices do not necessarily result in increased drilling activity because our customers’ expectation of future prices also drives demand for drilling services. Oil and gas prices as well as demand for Enservco’s services also depends upon other factors that are beyond Enservco’s control, including the following: ·demand for oils and natural gas; ·cost of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and natural gas; ·expectations regarding future energy prices; ·advancements in exploration and development technology; ·adoption or repeal of laws regulating oil and gas production in the U.S.; ·imposition or lifting of economic sanctions against foreign companies; ·weather conditions; ·rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves; ·tax policy regarding the oil and gas industry; and ·development and use of alternative energy sources. Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the domestic oil and natural gas industry. Enservco has no influence over its customers’ capital expenditures. On-going economic volatility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by participants in the domestic (United States) oil and natural gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth in the United States and elsewhere, and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. The worldwide deterioration in the financial and credit markets, which began in the second half of 2008, resulted in diminished demand for oil and natural gas and significantly lower oil and natural gas prices during 2009 and at least the first half of 2010. This caused many of our customers to reduce or delay their oil and natural gas exploration and production spending in 2009 and the first half of 2010, which consequently reduced their demand for our services, and exerted downward pressure on the prices that we charged for our services and products. Though we feel the domestic oil and gas industry has rebounded in 2011 as compared to 2009 and 2010, other worldwide political events may result in higher or lower prices for oil and natural gas and impact the demand for our services. Furthermore, increasing oil and natural gas prices can lead to increasing costs of exploring for and producing oil and natural gas. Though the addition of frac stimulation into the domestic oil and gas industry has somewhat reduced the overall costs of producing oil and natural gas, the price of drill rigs, pipe, other equipment, fluids, and oil field services and the cost to companies like Enservco of providing those services, has generally increased with significant increases in oil and natural gas prices. The resulting reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers during the past years due to the general deterioration of the financial and credit markets and the increase of the costs of exploring for and producing oil and natural gas as noted above, together with the reduced availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing funds, could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. This could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials and environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. The Company uses hazardous substances and wastes in its operations. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require Enservco to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce its earnings and cash available for operations. The Company believes it is currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Competition within the well services industry may adversely affect our ability to market our services. The well services industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis, as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than Enservco. The Company’s larger competitors have greater resources that could allow those competitors to compete more effectively than can Enservco. The amount of equipment available may exceed demand, which could result in active price competition. Our operations are subject to inherent risks, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may be self-insured, or may not be fully covered under our insurance policies but, to the extent not covered, are self-insured by Enservco. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, fires and oil spills. These conditions can cause: §Personal injury or loss of life, §Damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment, and §Suspension of operations by our customers. 16 The occurrence of a significant event or adverse claim in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. The Company maintains insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against these hazards. However, we do not have insurance against all foreseeable risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. As such, not all of our property is insured. The occurrence of an event not fully insured against, or the failure of an insurer to meet its insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at reasonable rates. Insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, it may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could rise significantly in the future so as to make such insurance prohibitively expensive. It is likely that, in our insurance renewals, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive than it has been in the recent past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We may not be successful in identifying, making and integrating our acquisitions, if any, in the future. We anticipate that a component of our growth strategy may be to make geographic-focused acquisitions aimed to strengthen our presence in selected regional markets. Pursuit of this strategy may be restricted by the on-going volatility and uncertainty within the credit markets which may significantly limit the availability of funds for such acquisitions. In addition to restricted funding availability, the success of this strategy will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to negotiate acceptable financial and other terms. There is no assurance that we will be able to do so. The success of an acquisition depends on our ability to perform adequate due diligence before the acquisition and on our ability to integrate the acquisition after it is completed. While the Company intends to commit significant resources to ensure that it conducts comprehensive due diligence, there can be no assurance that all potential risks and liabilities will be identified in connection with an acquisition. Similarly, while we expect to commit substantial resources, including management time and effort, to integrating acquired businesses into ours, there is no assurance that we will be successful integrating these businesses. In particular, it is important that the Company be able to retain both key personnel of the acquired business and its customer base. A loss of either key personnel or customers could negatively impact the future operating results of any acquired business. Compliance with climate change legislation or initiatives could negatively impact our business. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation to mandate reductions of greenhouse gas emissions and certain states have already implemented, or may be in the process of implementing, similar legislation. Additionally, the U.S. Supreme Court has held in its decisions that carbon dioxide can be regulated as an “air pollutant” under the Clean Air Act, which could result in future regulations even if the U.S. Congress does not adopt new legislation regarding emissions. At this time, it is not possible to predict how legislation or new federal or state government mandates regarding the emission of greenhouse gases could impact our business; however, any such future laws or regulations could require us or our customers to devote potentially material amounts of capital or other resources in order to comply with such regulations. These expenditures could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 17 Debt Related Risks Our indebtedness, which is currently collateralized by substantially all of our assets, could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. We currently have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, the Company owed approximately $11.9 million to banks and financial institutions (a significant portion of which has been guaranteed by Enservco as Dillco’s parent corporation), with another $2.3 million due through a revolving letter of credit and another $1.5 million of subordinated debt to Mr. Herman, (the largest individual stockholder of the Company). Our current and future indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: §Impair our ability to make investments and obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes, §Limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, §Make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general as a substantial portion of our operating cash flow will be required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, making it more difficult to react to changes in our business and in industry and market conditions, §Put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have less debt, and §Increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases to the extent that we incur variable rate indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain the funds required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various debt service covenants and/or reporting covenants in the business loan agreements or other instruments governing our current or any future indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of our credit facilities or such other instruments. In the event of a default, the holders of our indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed under those instruments to be due and payable together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments there under and we or one or more of our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any of the foregoing consequences could restrict our ability to grow our business and cause the value of our common stock to decline. 18 We may be unable to meet the obligations of various financial covenants that are contained in the terms of our loan agreements with Great Western Bank. Dillco’s agreements with Great Western Bank impose various obligations and financial covenants on Dillco, each of which Enservco (as the parent corporation) has guaranteed. The outstanding amount under a line of credit with Great Western Bank is due in full in October 2012 unless it is renewed on a year-to-year basis. Additionally, the term loan with Great Western Bank was amended during 2011, eliminating the requirement for Dillco to make a $1.0 million principal payment during the year and also amended the maturity date of the term loan from June 2015 to March 2015, effectively increasing the monthly principal and interest payments due through maturity. Both of these loans with Great Western Bank have a variable interest rate, are guaranteed by Enservco (as the parent corporation) and each of its subsidiaries, and are collateralized by substantially all of Dillco’s and Heat Waves’ assets. Further, the related agreements with Great Western and the bank impose various financial covenants on Dillco including maintaining a prescribed debt service ratio, minimum net worth, maximum leverage ratio, and limit the Company’s ability to incur additional debt obligations. If Dillco is unable to comply with its obligations and covenants under the loan agreements and it declares an event of default all of Dillco’s obligations to Great Western Bank could be immediately due. Because Enservco (as the parent corporation) guaranteed Dillco’s debt to Great Western Bank, any default by Dillco on its obligations to Great Western would likely directly impact Enservco. At December 31, 2011, the Company did not meet some of the financial covenants imposed by the loan agreements which resulted in an Event of Default under the loan documents. Great Western Bank has waived the effect of this Event of Default and has agreed to modify the debt covenants of the loan agreements for future reporting periods for those covenants which were in default at December 31, 2011. If any further Event of Default occurs under any of the Great West Bank loan agreements, we cannot offer any assurance that the Bank will grant a similar waiver. The agreements between Dillco and its primary lender contain cross default provisions with the debt of our principal stockholder, Michael D. Herman. Michael D. Herman is our principal stockholder, a director, and chief executive officer. Before closing of the Merger Transaction, Mr. Herman controlled Dillco and its affiliated entities, and had various personal and unrelated business loans with Great Western Bank and its predecessor lenders. When the Company negotiated its loan agreements with Great Western Bank, the bank insisted that they contain cross default provisions so that a default by Mr. Herman on his personal indebtedness with Great Western Bank would constitute a default on Great Western’s loans to Dillco. As a result of these cross-default provisions, should Mr. Herman default on any of the other debt he has through the bank in his personal capacity, the bank could declare Dillco’s loans in default and call upon Enservco’s guarantee with respect to Dillco’s loans (but not Mr. Herman’s separate obligations). Upon an event of default by Mr. Herman, Dillco might not be able to satisfy its obligations to Great Western Bank which would likely adversely impair Enservco’s ability to conduct its business operations and pay its other obligations necessary to maintain its business operations. Neither Dillco nor Enservco have any control over whether there occurs an event of default under Mr. Herman’s personal loan agreements. 19 The variable rate indebtedness with Great Western Bank subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Dillco’s borrowings through Great Western Bank bear interest at variable rates, exposing the Company to interest rate risk. Absent our ability to hedge our variable rates, if such rates increase, Dillco’s debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same and the Company’s net income and cash available for servicing Dillco’s indebtedness would decrease. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules which limits the market for our common stock. Because our stock is not quoted on an exchange and since the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock”. SEC Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “1934 Act”) imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” This includes the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customers concerning the risk of penny stocks. Many broker-dealers decline to participate in penny stock transactions because of the extra requirements imposed on penny stock transactions. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock reduces the market liquidity of our shares, which in turn affects the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the shares they purchase, and they may not be able to resell at prices at or above the prices they paid. It is likely that any efforts we may make to raise capital or effect a business transaction will result in substantial additional dilution to our stockholders. As part of our growth strategy we may desire to raise capital and or utilize its common stock to effect strategic business transactions. Either such action will likely require that we issue equity (or debt) securities which would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Although we will attempt to minimize the dilutive impact of any future capital-raising activities or business transactions, we cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to do so. If we are successful in raising additional working capital, we may have to issue additional shares of our common stock at prices at a discount from the then-current market price of our common stock. The majority of our common stock is currently considered restricted stock and our common stock is not currently eligible to be resold pursuant to Rule 144. A significant portion of our outstanding common stock was issued to our principal stockholders in July 2010 as “restricted securities” under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Aspen issued these shares to Mr. & Mrs. Herman and Mr. Kasch in consideration for their interests in Dillco. As a former shell company, to the extent that any person holds restricted securities of Enservco or otherwise must rely on Rule 144 for resale, Rule 144(i) imposes additional restrictions on the ability of any holder to utilize the exemption from registration for sales contained in Rule 144. 20 Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. The terms of Dillco’s existing senior credit facility restrict the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. General Corporate Risks Concentration of ownership in Mr. Herman makes it unlikely that any stockholder will be able to influence the election of directors or engage in a change of control transaction. Because Mr. Herman directly and indirectly owns approximately 60% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, he has the ability to elect all of our directors when they again stand for reelection. Furthermore, no person seeking control of Enservco through stock ownership will be able to succeed in doing so without negotiating an arrangement to do so with Mr. Herman. For so long as Mr. Herman continues to own a significant percentage of the outstanding shares of Enservco common stock, he will retain such control over the election of the board of directors and the negotiation of any change of control transaction. Risk of change of control. Mr. Herman directly and indirectly owns approximately 60% of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Mr. Herman has significant personal indebtedness to Great Western Bank, also the Company’s principal lender. Mr. Herman has granted Great Western Bank a blanket lien on his personal assets. Therefore, should Mr. Herman default on his personal indebtedness to the Bank, the Bank may institute a collection action which could result in the transfer of Mr. Herman’s interest in Enservco to the Bank – which transfer would result in a change of control. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay a change in control or a takeover. Provisions in our bylaws provide certain requirements for the nomination of directors which preclude a stockholder from nominating a candidate to stand for election at any annual meeting. As described in Section 2.12 of the Company’s bylaws, nominations must be presented to the Company well in advance of a scheduled annual meeting, and the notification must include specific information as set forth in that section. The Company believes that such a provision provides reasonable notice of the nominees to the board of directors, but it may preclude stockholder nomination at a meeting where the stockholder is not familiar with nomination procedures and, therefore, may prevent or delay a change of control or takeover. 21 Although the Delaware General Corporation Law includes §112 which provides that bylaws of Delaware corporations may require the corporation to include in its proxy materials one or more nominees submitted by stockholders in addition to individuals nominated by the board of directors, the bylaws of Enservco do not so provide. As a result, if any stockholder desires to nominate persons for election to the board of directors, the proponent will have to incur all of the costs normally associated with a contested proxy contest and then, because of Mr. Herman’s controlling ownership, will likely not be able to succeed in its endeavor. The Securities and Exchange Commission recently adopted rules that are also intended to help stockholders nominees for election, but it is not currently clear when or if these rules will become effective. Therefore, stockholders who desire to nominate directors may not be able to take advantage of certain newly enacted (or contemplated) statutes and regulations that are aimed to help stockholder nominees be elected to boards of directors, which is another factor that may delay or prevent a change of control or a takeover. Indemnification of officers and directors may result in unanticipated expenses. The Delaware General Corporation Law and our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with us or activities on our behalf. We also will bear the expenses of such litigation for any of their directors, officers, employees, or agents, upon such person’s promise to repay them if it is ultimately determined that any such person shall not have been entitled to indemnification. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures by us that we may be unable to recoup and could direct funds away from our business and products (if any). We have significant obligations under the 1934 Act. Because we are a public company filing reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Act, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and extensive and complex regulation. The Securities and Exchange Commission has the right to review the accuracy and completeness of our reports, press releases, and other public documents. In addition, we are subject to extensive requirements to institute and maintain financial accounting controls and for the accuracy and completeness of our books and records. Normally these activities are overseen by an audit committee consisting of qualified independent directors. A majority of our Board of Directors currently does not consist of directors that are considered “independent.” Consequently, the protections normally provided to stockholders by boards of directors comprised by a majority of persons considered “independent” directors are not available. Although we hope to appoint qualified independent directors in the future should we enter into a business combination or acquire a business, we cannot offer any assurance that we will locate any person willing to serve in that capacity. Forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate. In our effort to make the information in this report more meaningful, this report contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meanings of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the 1934 Act. Forward-looking statements in this report are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the current expectations of our management concerning future results and events. It should be noted that because we are a “penny stock,” the protections provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the 1934 Act do not apply to us. We have attempted to qualify our forward-looking statements with appropriate cautionary language to take advantage of the judicially-created doctrine of “bespeaks caution” and other protections. 22 Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance and achievements to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on our future results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 