Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry Additional terrorist attacks or international hostilities may further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and the airline industry generally. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats), could negatively affect us and the airline industry. The potential negative effects include increased security, insurance and other costs for us, higher ticket refunds and decreased ticket sales. The war in Iraq further decreased demand for air travel during the first half of 2003, especially in transatlantic markets, and additional international hostilities could potentially have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the United States. The airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting. The U.S. airline industry is increasingly characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. Carriers use discount fares to stimulate traffic during periods of slack demand, to generate cash flow and to increase market share. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, including hedges against fuel price increases, or lower cost structures than we do, or both. In recent years, the domestic market share held by low cost carriers has increased significantly and is expected to continue to increase, which is dramatically changing the airline industry. The increased market presence of low cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of the network carriers to maintain sufficient pricing structures in domestic markets to achieve profitability. This has contributed to the dramatic losses for us and the airline industry generally. For example, a low-cost carrier began to directly compete with us on flights between Liberty International and destinations in Florida in 2005. We are responding vigorously to this challenge, but have experienced decreased yields on affected flights. We cannot predict whether or for how long these trends will continue. In addition to price competition, airlines also compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. Several of our domestic competitors have announced aggressive plans to expand into international markets, including some destinations that we currently serve. The increased competition in these international markets, particularly to the extent our competitors engage in price discounting, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Airline profit levels are highly sensitive to changes in fuel costs, fare levels and passenger demand. Passenger demand and fare levels are influenced by, among other things, the state of the global economy, domestic and international events, airline capacity and pricing actions taken by carriers. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the weak economy prior to 2004, turbulent international events (including the war in Iraq), high fuel prices and extensive price discounting by carriers have resulted in dramatic losses for us and the airline industry generally and have precipitated several airline bankruptcies. United, US Airways, Delta, Northwest and several small competitors have filed for bankruptcy protection. Other carriers could file for bankruptcy or threaten to do so to reduce their costs. US Airways and, more recently, United, have emerged from bankruptcy. Carriers operating under bankruptcy protection may be in a position to operate in a manner adverse to us and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors with substantially lower costs than ours. Since its deregulation in 1978, the U.S. airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation and may experience additional consolidation in the future. We routinely monitor changes in the competitive landscape and engage in analysis and discussions regarding our strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and business combination transactions. We have had, and expect to continue to have, discussions with third parties regarding strategic alternatives. The impact of any consolidation within the U.S. airline industry cannot be predicted at this time. Additional security requirements may increase our costs and decrease our traffic. Since September 11, 2001, the Department of Homeland Security ("DHS") and TSA have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. Most recently, DHS has begun to implement the US-VISIT program (a program of fingerprinting and photographing foreign visa holders), announced that it will implement greater use of passenger data for evaluating security measures to be taken with respect to individual passengers, expanded the use of federal air marshals on our flights (thus displacing additional revenue passengers and causing increased customer complaints from displaced passengers), begun investigating a requirement to install aircraft security systems (such as active devices on commercial aircraft as countermeasures against portable surface to air missiles) and expanded cargo and baggage screening. DHS has also req uired certain flights to be cancelled on short notice for security reasons, and has required certain airports to remain at higher security levels than other locations. In addition, foreign governments also have begun to institute additional security measures at foreign airports we serve, out of their own security concerns or in response to security measures imposed by the U.S. A large part of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, and we believe that these and other security measures have the effect of decreasing the demand for air travel and the attractiveness of air transportation as compared to other modes of transportation in general. Security measures imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments after September 11, 2001 have increased our costs and therefore adversely affected our financial results, and additional measures taken in the future may result in similar adverse effects. See "Industry Regulation and Airport Access - Federal Regulations" above for a discussion of passenger and aviation security fees and their impact on us. Expanded government regulation could further increase our operating costs and restrict our ability to conduct our business. As evidenced by the security measures discussed above, airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Some FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We expect to continue incurring ex penses to comply with the FAA's regulations. Many aspects of airlines' operations also are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. Future regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. For example, potential future actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, foreign governments, or the International Civil Aviation Organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation sector are unknown at this time, but the impact to us and our industry is likely to be adverse and could be significant. Restrictions on the ownership and transfer of airline routes and takeoff and landing slots have also been proposed. See "Industry Regulation and Airport Access" above. The ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities are not made available. We cannot provide assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect us. Our results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. Due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenue in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year is generally stronger than revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year for most U.S. air carriers. Our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but also have been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including excise and similar taxes, weather, air traffic control delays and general economic conditions, as well as the other factors discussed above. For example, in the third quarter of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita disrupted our operations and resulted in unprecedented high prices and diminished supplies of jet fuel. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 