ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Described below are certain risks that we believe are associated with an investment in the Units of the Trust and the oil and natural gas industry. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below occur, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 3 Table of Contents Oil and natural gas prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce net proceeds to the Trust and distributions to Unit Holders. The Trust’s monthly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. Oil and natural gas prices can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and Burlington. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others: • political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war or other armed conflicts in oil producing regions; • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions; • the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas, including liquefied natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation and climate change measures; and • technological advances in the methods for the exploration and production of natural gas. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Oil and natural gas prices declined significantly in the second half of 2014 and during 2015 and have remained low compared to prices in the first half of 2014. In addition, the market price of oil and natural gas is generally higher in the winter months than during other months of the year due to increased demand for oil and natural gas for heating purposes during the winter season. During 2015, the price of natural gas and oil for production from the Underlying Properties declined significantly from an average price for natural gas of $4.47 per Mcf in 2014 to $2.60 per Mcf in 2015, and the price for oil declined from an average price of $82.99 per Bbl in 2014 to $47.00 per Bbl in 2015. As a result of the price decline, certain wells have become less economical and, as a result, Burlington has reduced production from the Underlying Properties. Natural gas production from the Underlying Properties decreased from 30,872,147 Mcf in 2014 to 29,128,439 Mcf in 2015. See Item 7. Trustee’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Lower oil and natural gas prices will reduce proceeds to which the Trust is entitled and may ultimately reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that is economic to produce from the Underlying Properties. As a result, Burlington or any third-party operator of any of the Underlying Properties could determine during periods of low oil and natural gas prices to shut in or curtail production from wells on the Underlying Properties. In addition, the operator of the Underlying Properties could determine during periods of low oil and natural gas prices to plug and abandon marginal wells that otherwise may have been allowed to continue to produce for a longer period under conditions of higher prices. Specifically, Burlington or any third-party operator may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce oil and natural gas in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the portion of the royalty interests relating to the abandoned well or property, and Burlington would have no obligation to drill a replacement well. Burlington has informed us that it has not and does not intend to enter into derivative contracts or other hedging contracts with respect to the sale of production from the Underlying Properties. Absent such arrangements, the revenue received from such production will be subject to market prices. 4 Table of Contents Increased costs of production and development will result in decreased Trust distributions. Production and development costs attributable to the Underlying Properties are deducted in the calculation of net proceeds. Accordingly, higher production and development costs, without concurrent increases in revenues, decrease the share of net proceeds paid to the Trust as Royalty Income. If development and production costs of the Underlying Properties exceed the proceeds of production from the Underlying Properties, such excess costs are carried forward and the Trust will not receive a share of net proceeds for the Underlying Properties until future net proceeds from production from such properties exceed the total of the excess costs. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs; however, the Trust is not obligated to repay the excess costs except through future production. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimated reserves and estimated future revenues to be too high. The value of the Units of the Trust depends upon, among other things, the amount of reserves attributable to the Royalty and the estimated future value of the reserves. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Underlying Properties will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions may include: • historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; • the assumed effect of governmental regulation; and • assumptions about future commodity price adjustments, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures. Changes in these assumptions may materially change reserve estimates. Our estimate of proved natural gas reserves declined from 120.7 Bcf to 75.6 Bcf, as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, respectively, a decrease of approximately 45.1 Bcf, or 37%. In addition, the discounted future net cash flows related to future Royalty Income from our proved reserves declined from $308.1 million to $103.1 million, as of December 31, 2014 and 2015, respectively, a decrease of approximately $205.0 million, or 67%. Such decreases are a result of lower natural gas and oil prices, and if natural gas and oil prices persist or decrease further, the value of our estimated proved reserves and future Royalty Income may decrease substantially. For more information regarding our proved reserves, see Item 2. Properties – Oil and Natural Gas Reserves and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 9. The reserve data included herein are estimates only and are subject to many uncertainties. Actual quantities of oil and natural gas may differ considerably from the amounts set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities and cash flows based upon the same available data. The future financial condition of operators of the Underlying Properties could impede the operation of wells. The value of the Royalty and the Trust’s ultimate cash available for distribution is highly dependent on the financial condition of the operator of the wells. Neither Burlington nor any of the other operators of the Underlying Properties has agreed with the Trust to maintain a certain net worth or to be restricted by other similar covenants. The ability to operate the Underlying Properties depends on all operators’ future financial condition and economic performance and access to capital, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of such operators. 5 Table of Contents In the event of the bankruptcy of any operator of the Underlying Properties, the working interest owners in the affected properties, creditors or the debtor-in-possession would have to seek a new party to perform the operations of the affected wells. Burlington or the other working interest owners may not be able to find a replacement operator, and they may not be able to enter into a new agreement with such replacement party on favorable terms or within a reasonable period of time. As a result, such a bankruptcy may result in reduced production of reserves and decreased distributions to Unit Holders. Production of oil and natural gas on the Underlying Properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather. Production of oil and natural gas on the Underlying Properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • evacuation of personnel and curtailment of operations • weather-related damage to drilling rigs or other facilities, resulting in suspension of operations • inability to deliver materials to worksites; and • weather-related damage to pipelines and other transportation facilities. Due to the Trust’s lack of industry and geographic diversification, adverse developments in the Trust’s existing area of operation could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce its ability to make distributions to the Unit Holders. The Underlying Properties are operated for oil and natural gas production and are focused exclusively in the San Juan Basin. This concentration could disproportionately expose the Trust’s interests to operational and regulatory risk in that area. Due to the lack of diversification in industry type and location of the Trust’s interests, adverse developments in the oil and natural gas markets or the area of the Underlying Properties, including, for example, transportation or treatment capacity constraints, curtailment of production or treatment plant closures for scheduled maintenance, could have a significantly greater impact on the Trust’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if the Royalty were more diversified. The operators of the Underlying Properties are subject to extensive governmental regulation that could affect the cost, manner and feasibility of conducting operations on the Underlying Properties, which in turn could negatively impact Trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust’s interests. Oil and natural gas operations on the Underlying Properties are subject to laws and regulations adopted or promulgated by federal, state and local authorities. From time to time, those requirements may require Burlington and other operators of the Underlying Properties to incur substantial costs or restrict production. Changes in price controls, taxes and environmental laws relating to the crude oil and natural gas industry have the ability to significantly affect crude oil and natural gas production, operations and economics. We cannot always predict with certainty whether agencies or courts will change their interpretation of existing requirements, whether government authorities will adopt new requirements or the effect such changes may have on our business or financial condition. Environmental laws, in particular, may change frequently and at times may force Burlington and other operators of the Underlying Properties to incur additional costs as those changes are implemented, or in instances of possible non-compliance, to incur penalties. Additionally, the discharge of natural gas, crude oil, or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to substantial liabilities to government agencies and third parties, and may require Burlington and other operators of the Underlying Properties to incur substantial costs of remediation. 6 Table of Contents Some of the complex environmental requirements to which operation of the Underlying Properties may be subject include the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Endangered Species Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act and analogous state statutes along with regulations developed under these laws. See Item 2. Properties—Regulation. Any new requirements under environmental or other statutes could increase the cost to operate the Underlying Properties, change the nature of such operations, delay operations or reduce the liquidity of, or otherwise negatively impact, the financial condition of Burlington and the other operators of the Underlying Properties. Such costs, delays and changes in operations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of the Underlying Properties, which in turn could negatively impact Trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust’s interests. Operating risks for Burlington and other operators of the Underlying Properties can adversely affect Trust distributions. Royalty Income payable to the Trust is derived from the sale of natural gas and oil production following the gathering and processing of those minerals, which operations are subject to risk inherent in such activities. Such risks include the following, which may result in production operations being curtailed, delayed or canceled: • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • unusual or unexpected geological formations and miscalculations; • equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; • lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities; • lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; • unexpected operational events; • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses; • pressures, fires, blowouts and explosions; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, water or drilling fluids; • natural disasters; • environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases or well fluids; • adverse weather conditions, such as extreme cold, fires caused by extreme heat or lack of rain and severe storms or tornadoes; and • market limitations for oil and natural gas. If anticipated production is lower due to any of the factors above or for any other reason, or if Burlington incurs additional operational or production costs as a result of these or other factors, the amount of Trust distributions may be significantly reduced. None of the Trustee, the Trust nor the Unit Holders control the operation or development of the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit Holders can influence or control the operation or future development of the Underlying Properties. The Underlying Properties are owned by Burlington, which operates a majority of such properties and handles the calculation of the net proceeds attributable to the Royalty and the payment of Royalty Income to the Trust. The Underlying Properties that are not operated by Burlington are operated by other 7 Table of Contents operators, some of which may be affiliated with Burlington. The development of the Underlying Properties is conducted pursuant to operating and similar agreements to which the Trust is not a party and under which the Trust has no control or other rights to determine the location, timing and other key aspects of development and maintenance that may materially impact results of operations. The Royalty can be sold and the Trust can be terminated in certain circumstances. The Trustee may sell or dispose of any part of the assets of the trust with the affirmative vote the Unit Holders of 75% of all of the Units outstanding, except that the Trustee may sell up to 1% of the value of the Royalty (as determined pursuant to the Indenture) during any 12-month period without the consent of the Unit Holders. The Trust does not operate the Underlying Properties and is not empowered to carry on any business activity. The Trust will be terminated and the Trustee must sell the Royalty if holders of at least 75% of the Units approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust, or if the Trust’s gross revenue for each of two successive years is less than $1million per year. Any net proceeds of a sale following termination of the Trust will be distributed to the Unit Holders after satisfying or establishing reserves to satisfy the liabilities of the Trust, and Unit Holders will receive no further distributions from the Trust. We cannot assure you that any sale of Trust assets will be on terms acceptable to all Unit Holders. Mineral properties, such as the Underlying Properties, are depleting assets, and if Burlington or other operators of the Underlying Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. The Royalty Income payable to the Trust is derived from the sale of depleting assets. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Underlying Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend primarily on the market prices of natural gas. If Burlington does not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. Burlington has no contractual obligation to the Trust to make capital expenditures on the Underlying Properties in the future. Furthermore, for properties on which Burlington is not designated as the operator, Burlington has no control over the timing or amount of capital expenditures. Burlington has a right to not participate in the capital expenditures on properties for which it is not the operator, in which case Burlington and the Trust will not receive the proceeds from the sale of the production resulting from such capital expenditures. The Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties or royalty interests to replace the depleting assets and production attributable to the Trust. Payment resulting from the Trust’s audit exceptions to Burlington’s calculation of Royalty Income may be significantly delayed, if payment is made at all. Generally, each year the Trust completes an audit of Royalty Income for the previous fiscal year and provides notice to Burlington of audit exceptions during the second half of each year. Additional time is often required to resolve such audit exceptions, and in some cases, the audit exceptions have resulted in litigation lasting several years. Our audit of fiscal year 2015 Royalty Income may result in significant additional audit exceptions. Although we continue to seek resolution of these exceptions, we cannot provide any assurance as to whether they will be resolved in the Trust’s favor and when they will be resolved. Audit exceptions may be resolved by court orders, settlement agreements between the parties and other methods that may not be favorable to the Trust and could result in a decrease in Royalty Income. The amount of funds available for distribution to Unit Holders will be reduced by the amount of any cash reserves maintained by the Trustee in respect of anticipated future Trust expenses. The Trustee is authorized to determine in its discretion the amount of cash reserves needed to pay liabilities and contingencies of the Trust. The amount of distributions to Unit Holders in a period is reduced by the amount of any increase in cash reserves for that period. During 2015, cash reserves of the Trust were increased by $0.3 8 Table of Contents million, from $0.2 million as of December 31, 2014 to $0.5 million as of December 31, 2015. Because a prolonged decline in natural gas prices may reduce Royalty Income, the Trustee has increased the amount of cash reserves during 2016 by $150,000 as of February 29, 2016 and expects to further increase the total amount of cash reserves to approximately $1.0 million during the year, which will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Unit Holders. Unit Holders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a Unit Holder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unit Holders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Unlike corporations, which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a corporate trustee in accordance with the Indenture and other organizational documents. The Trustee has extremely limited discretion in its administration of the Trust. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the Conveyance, the recourse of the Unit Holders would likely be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. Unit Holders probably would not be able to sue Burlington or any other operator of the Underlying Properties. The Indenture provides that the Trustee may only be removed and replaced by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Units, at a duly called meeting of Unit Holders. As a result, it may be difficult for public Unit Holders to remove or replace the Trustee without the cooperation of holders of a substantial percentage of the outstanding Units. The limited liability of Unit Holders is uncertain. The Unit Holders are not protected from the liabilities of the Trust to the same extent that a shareholder would be protected from a corporation’s liabilities. The structure of the Trust does not include the interposition of a limited liability entity such as a corporation or limited partnership which would provide further limited liability protection to Unit Holders. While the Trustee is liable for any excess liabilities incurred if the Trustee fails to ensure that such liabilities are to be satisfied only out of Trust assets, under the laws of Texas, which are unsettled on this point, a Unit Holder may be jointly and severally liable for any liability of the Trust if the satisfaction of such liability was not contractually limited to the assets of the Trust and the assets of the Trust and the Trustee are not adequate to satisfy such liability. As a result, Unit Holders may be exposed to personal liability. The Trust, however, is not liable for production costs or other liabilities of the Underlying Properties. Conflicts of interest could arise between Burlington and the Trust. Burlington could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and the Unit Holders. For example, Burlington’s interests may conflict with those of the Trust and the Unit Holders in situations involving the development, maintenance, operation or abandonment of the Underlying Properties. Additionally, Burlington may abandon a well that is no longer producing in paying quantities even though such well is still generating revenue for the Unit Holders. Burlington may make decisions with respect to expenditures and decisions to allocate resources to projects in other areas that adversely affect the Underlying Properties, including reducing expenditures on these properties, which could cause oil and natural gas production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the Trust in the future. Burlington may, without the consent or approval of the Unit Holders, sell all or any part of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties. Although Burlington must require any purchaser of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties to assume Burlington’s obligations with respect to those properties, such sale may not be in the best interests of the Trust and the Unit Holders. Any purchaser may lack Burlington’s experience in the Underlying Properties or its creditworthiness. Burlington may not be adequately insured against operational hazards. Burlington is not obligated to the Trust to maintain any particular types or amounts of insurance, and insurance may not be commercially available at adequate levels to cover its operational hazards at all times 9 Table of Contents during the life of the Trust. If a well is damaged, Burlington would have no obligation to drill a replacement well or otherwise compensate the Trust for the loss. The Trust does not have insurance or indemnification to protect against losses or delays in receiving proceeds from such events. Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with GAAP. The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, GAAP. Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty Trusts by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the financial statements of the Trust differ from GAAP financial statements because revenues are not accrued in the month of production; certain cash reserves may be established for liabilities and contingencies of the Trust which would not be accrued in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP; expenses are recorded when paid instead of when incurred; and amortization of the Royalty calculated on a unit-of-production basis is charged directly to trust corpus instead of as an expense. The Trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the tax treatment of the Trust. If the IRS were to determine (and be sustained in that determination) that the Trust is not a “grantor trust’’ for federal income tax purposes, the Trust could be subject to more complex and costly tax reporting requirements that could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Unit Holders. If the Trust were not treated as a grantor trust for federal income tax purposes, the Trust may be properly classified as a partnership for such purposes. Although the Trust would not become subject to federal income taxation at the entity level as a result of treatment as a partnership, and items of income, gain, loss and deduction would flow through to the Unit Holders, the Trust’s tax compliance requirements would be more complex and costly to implement and maintain, and its distributions to Unit Holders could be reduced as a result. The Trustee has not requested a ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) regarding the tax status of the Trust, and the Trustee does not intend to request such a ruling or cannot assure you that such a ruling would be granted if requested or that the IRS will not challenge these positions on audit. Unit Holders should be aware of the possible state tax implications of owning Units and should consult with their tax advisors. Certain U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to oil and natural gas production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Recently introduced legislation include proposals that would, among other things, eliminate or reduce certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, could reduce the cash available for distribution to the Unit Holders or adversely affect the value of the Units. Unit Holders are required to pay taxes on their share of the Trust’s income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from the Trust. Unit Holders are treated as if they own the Trust’s assets and receive the Trust’s income and are directly taxable thereon as if no Trust were in existence. Because the Trust generates taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash the Trust distributes, Unit Holders are required to pay any federal and applicable state income taxes and, in some cases, other state and local income taxes on their share of the Trust’s 10 Table of Contents taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from the Trust. A Unit Holder may not receive cash distributions from the Trust equal to such Unit Holder’s share of the Trust’s taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. A portion of any tax gain on the disposition of the Units could be taxed as ordinary income. If a Unit Holder sells Units, the Unit Holder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the Unit Holder’s tax basis in those Units. A substantial portion of any gain recognized may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depletion recapture. Potential investors should consult with their tax advisors prior to acquiring Units. The Trust allocates its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust Units each month based upon the ownership of the Units on the monthly record date, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Unit Holders. The Trust generally allocates its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Units each month based upon the ownership of the Units on the monthly record date, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Unit is transferred. It is possible that the IRS could disagree with this allocation method and could assert that income and deductions of the Trust should be determined and allocated on a daily or prorated basis, which could require adjustments to the tax returns of the Unit Holders affected by the issue and result in an increase in the administrative expense of the Trust in subsequent periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 