Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry The global recession could continue to result in less demand for air travel. The airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and global economies. The severe economic recession in the U.S. and global economies had a substantial negative impact on the demand for air carrier services beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. This decline in demand has disproportionately reduced the volume of high-yield traffic in the premium cabins on domestic and international flights, as many business travelers either curtailed their travel or purchased lower yield economy tickets. The diminished volume of high-yield traffic has significantly reduced airline revenues since the fourth quarter of 2008. We cannot predict how quickly or fully demand for air travel will recover. Stagnant or worsening global economic conditions that continue to contribute to the loss of business and leisure traffic, particularly the loss of high-yield international traffic in our first class and BusinessFirst cabins, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting. The U.S. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. Carriers use discount fares to stimulate traffic during periods of slack demand, or when they begin service to new cities or have excess capacity, to generate cash flow and to establish, increase or preserve market share. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources (including a larger percentage or more favorable fuel hedges against price increases) and/or lower cost structures than we do, in some cases as the result of bankruptcies and/or mergers. In recent years, the domestic market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly and is expected to continue to increase. The increased market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of the network carriers to maintain sufficient fare levels in domestic markets to achieve sustained profitability. We cannot predict whether or for how long these trends will continue. In addition to price competition, airlines also compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. Several of our domestic competitors have increased their international capacity, including service to some destinations that we currently serve. Additionally, the "open skies" agreement between the United States and the European Union, which became effective on March 30, 2008 is resulting in increased competition from European and U.S. airlines in these international markets, and may give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among European carriers. The “open skies” agreement between the United States and Japan announced in December 2009 is also likely to increase competition in affected markets if it becomes effective. The increased competition in these international markets, particularly to the extent our competitors engage in price discounting, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Expanded government regulation could further increase our operating costs and restrict our ability to conduct our business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs and can adversely affect us. Additional laws, regulations, airport rates and charges and growth constraints have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. In addition, to address concerns about airport congestion, the FAA has designated certain airports, including New York Liberty, Kennedy and LaGuardia as “high density traffic airports,” and has imposed operating restrictions at these three airports, which may include capacity reductions. In addition, the FAA has designated New York Liberty and Kennedy as Level 3 Coordinated Airports under the International Air Transport Association Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines, which requires us to participate in seasonal FAA procedures for capacity allocation and schedule coordination for New York Liberty and to have slots to operate at that airport. Additional restrictions on airline routes and takeoff and landing slots may be proposed that could affect rights of ownership and transfer. Although we do not believe that these current operating restrictions will have a material adverse effect on our operations at New York Liberty, we cannot predict the impact of future capacity constraints or allocations or other restrictions on our operations that might be imposed by the FAA, Congress or other regulators, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures or operational restrictions, and which could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the FAA identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. These FAA directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. Many aspects of airlines' operations also are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws protecting the environment, including the imposition of additional taxes on airlines or their passengers. Future regulatory developments in the United States and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. The European Union has issued a directive to member states to include aviation in its Greenhouse Gas ETS, which requires us to begin monitoring our emissions of carbon dioxide effective January 1, 2010 and have emissions allowances equal to the amount of our carbon dioxide emissions to operate flights to and from member states of the European Union in January 2012 and thereafter, including flights between the United States and the European Union. On December 16, 2009, we joined a lawsuit in the United Kingdom with the Air Transport Association of America, American and United to challenge the extension of the European Union’s ETS to include aviation and the imposition of its requirements on us. In addition, non-EU governments are expected to challenge the application of the EU ETS to their airlines; however, we may be forced to comply with the EU ETS requirements during the pendency of a legal challenge. We may have to purchase emissions allowances through the EU ETS to cover EU flights that exceed our free allowances, which could result in substantial costs for us. Other regulatory actions that may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, other foreign governments or the International Civil Aviation Organization to address concerns about climate change and air emissions from the aviation sector are unknown at this time. Climate change legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress, including a proposal to require transportation fuel producers and importers to acquire allowances sufficient to offset the emissions resulting from combustion of their fuels. We cannot predict, however, if any such legislation will pass the Congress or, if passed and enacted into law, how it would specifically apply to the aviation industry. In addition, effective January 14, 2010, the Administrator of EPA found that current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten the public health and welfare. Although legal challenges and legislative proposals are expected that may invalidate this endangerment finding and the EPA’s assertion of authority under the Clean Air Act, the finding could result in EPA regulation of commercial aircraft emissions if EPA finds, as expected, that such emissions contribute to greenhouse gas pollution. The impact to us and our industry from any additional legislation or regulations addressing climate change is likely to be adverse and could be significant, particularly if regulators were to conclude that emissions from commercial aircraft cause significant harm to the upper atmosphere or have a greater impact on climate change than other industries. Potential actions may include the imposition of requirements on airlines or transportation fuel producers and importers to purchase emission offsets or credits, which could require participation in emissions allowance trading (such as required in the European Union) and increase the cost of carbon-based fuels (such as jet fuel), substantial taxes on emissions and growth restrictions on airline operations, among other potential regulatory actions. Further, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities are not made available. We cannot provide assurance that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not have a significant adverse effect on us. Additional terrorist attacks or international hostilities may further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and the airline industry generally. Airlines continue to be a target of terrorist attacks. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats such as the August 2006 terrorist plot targeting multiple airlines, including us), could negatively affect us and the airline industry. The potential negative effects include increased security, insurance and other costs for us and lost revenue from increased ticket refunds and decreased ticket sales. Our financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the United States. Additional security requirements may increase our costs and decrease our traffic. Since September 11, 2001, the Department of Homeland Security ("DHS") and TSA have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and they are likely to implement additional measures in the future. Most recently, DHS has begun to implement the US-VISIT program (a program of fingerprinting and photographing foreign visa holders), announced that it will implement greater use of passenger data for evaluating security measures to be taken with respect to individual passengers, expanded the use of federal air marshals on our flights (who do not pay for their seats and thus displace revenue passengers and cause increased customer complaints from displaced passengers), begun investigating a requirement to install aircraft security systems (such as devices on commercial aircraft as countermeasures against portable surface to air missiles) and expanded cargo and baggage screening. DHS also has required certain flights to be cancelled on short notice for security reasons, and has required certain airports to remain at higher security levels than other locations. In addition, foreign governments also have begun to institute additional security measures at foreign airports we serve, out of their own security concerns or in response to security measures imposed by the United States. Moreover, the TSA has imposed measures affecting the contents of baggage that may be carried on an aircraft. The TSA and other security regulators could impose other measures as necessary to respond to security threats that may arise in the future. A large portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, and we believe that these and other security measures have the effect of decreasing the demand for air travel and the overall attractiveness of air transportation as compared to other modes of transportation. Additional security measures required by the U.S. and foreign governments in the future, such as further expanded cargo screening, might increase our costs or decrease the demand for air travel, adversely affecting our financial results. The airline industry is heavily taxed. The airline industry is subject to extensive government fees and taxation that negatively impact our revenue. The U.S. airline industry is one of the most heavily taxed of all industries. These fees and taxes have grown significantly in the past decade for domestic flights, and various U.S. fees and taxes also are assessed on international flights. In addition, the governments of foreign countries in which we operate impose on U.S. airlines, including us, various fees and taxes, and these assessments have been increasing in number and amount in recent years. Certain of these fees and taxes must be included in the fares we advertise or quote to our customers. Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in these fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the passenger. Further increases in fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel and thus our revenues. Airlines may continue to participate in industry consolidation or alliances, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are facing stronger competition from carriers that have participated in industry consolidation and from expanded airline alliances and joint ventures. Since its deregulation in 1978, the U.S. airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation and additional consolidation may occur in light of the recently completed merger of Delta and Northwest, which changed the competitive environment for us and the entire airline industry. As a result of the announcement of the Delta/Northwest merger agreement, we conducted a comprehensive review of our strategic alternatives and announced in April 2008 that we had determined that the best course for us was not to merge with another airline at such time. Through consolidation, carriers have the opportunity to significantly expand the reach of their networks, which is of primary importance to business travelers, and to achieve cost reductions by eliminating redundancy in their networks and their management structures. Through participation in airline alliances and/or joint ventures, carriers granted anti-trust immunity by the appropriate regulatory authorities are able to coordinate their routes, pool their revenues and costs and enjoy other mutual benefits, such as frequent flier program reciprocity, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. For example, in 2009, Air France-KLM, Delta and Northwest launched a new trans-Atlantic joint venture among those airlines that involves coordination of routes, fares, schedules and other matters among those airlines, Alitalia and CSA Czech Airlines. American, British Airways and Iberia have received tentative DOT approval of their application for anti-trust immunity for a similar trans-Atlantic joint venture, which would also involve many of the same benefits. Delta recently attempted to induce Japan Airlines to leave its current alliance and join Delta’s alliance, although it was unsuccessful. There may be additional consolidation or changes in airline alliances and/or joint ventures in the future, any of which could result in one or more airlines or alliances with more extensive route networks and/or lower costs structures than currently exist, changing the competitive landscape for the airline industry and having a material adverse effect on us. Insurance costs could increase materially or key coverage could become unavailable. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. Furthermore, our ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. Since the terrorist attacks, the U.S. government has provided war risk (terrorism) insurance to U.S. commercial airlines to cover losses. War risk insurance in amounts necessary for our operations, and at premiums that are not excessive, is not currently available in the commercial insurance market. If the government discontinues this coverage in whole or in part, we may be able to obtain comparable coverage in the commercial insurance market only, if it is available at all, for substantially higher premiums and on more restrictive terms. If we are unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Public health threats affecting travel behavior could have a material adverse effect on the industry. Public health threats, such as the H1N1 flu virus, the bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARs) and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate, could adversely impact our operations and the worldwide demand for air travel. Travel restrictions or operational problems, such as quarantining of personnel or inability to access our facilities or aircraft in any part of the world in which we operate, or any reduction in the demand for air travel caused by public health threats in the future, may materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. Due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenue in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year is generally stronger than revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year for most U.S. air carriers. Our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but also have been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including excise and similar taxes, weather and air traffic control delays, as well as the other factors discussed above. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 