Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry The global recession could continue to result in less demand for air travel. The U.S. and global economies are currently in a recession. The airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and global economies. For 2008, a year in which the U.S. gross domestic product experienced its largest contraction in 25 years, traffic for the seven largest U.S. carriers, measured in miles flown by revenue passengers, fell approximately 2% as compared to 2007, the first such annual decline in five years. This decline in demand has disproportionately reduced the volume of high yield traffic in the premium cabins on international flights, as many business and leisure travelers are either curtailing their international travel or purchasing lower yield economy tickets. A prolonged recession in the U.S. or global economies that continues to contribute to the loss of business and leisure traffic, particularly the loss of high yield international traffic in our first class and BusinessFirst cabins, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting. The U.S. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. Carriers use discount fares to stimulate traffic during periods of slack demand, or when they begin service to new cities or have excess capacity, to generate cash flow and to establish, increase or preserve market share. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources (including a larger percentage or more favorable fuel hedges against price increases) and/or lower cost structures than we do, some of which is the result of bankruptcies and/or mergers. In recent years, the domestic market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly and is expected to continue to increase. The increased market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of the network carriers to maintain sufficient fare levels in domestic markets to achieve sustained profitability. We cannot predict whether or for how long these trends will continue. In addition to price competition, airlines also compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. Several of our domestic competitors have increased their international capacity, including service to some destinations that we currently serve. Additionally, the "open skies" agreement between the United States and the European Union, which became effective on March 30, 2008 is resulting in increased competition from European and U.S. airlines in these international markets, and may give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among European carriers. The increased competition in these international markets, particularly to the extent our competitors engage in price discounting, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Expanded government regulation could further increase our operating costs and restrict our ability to conduct our business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs and can adversely affect us. Additional laws, regulations, airport rates and charges and growth constraints have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. In addition, to address concerns about airport congestion, the FAA has designated certain airports, including New York Liberty, Kennedy and LaGuardia as "high density traffic airports," and has imposed operating restrictions at these three airports, including recent additional capacity reductions at LaGuardia. In addition, the FAA has designated New York Liberty and Kennedy as Level 3 Coordinated Airports under the International Air Transport Association Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines, which requires us to participate in seasonal FAA procedures for capacity allocation and schedule coordination for New York Liberty and to have slots to operate at that airport. Although we do not believe that these current operating restrictions will have a material adverse effect on our operations at New York Liberty, we cannot predict the impact of future capacity constraints or allocations or other restrictions on our operations that might be imposed by the FAA, Congress or other regulators, which might have a material adverse effect on us. Additional restrictions on airline routes and takeoff and landing slots have been or may be proposed that could affect rights of ownership and transfer. For example, although currently not effective because of a court order, the FAA has issued rules that continue the FAA requirement to have a slot for arrival or departure at New York Liberty, Kennedy and LaGuardia through 2019. These rules provide that the FAA would withdraw and auction to the highest bidder annually through 2013 a portion of each airline's slots at New York Liberty, Kennedy and LaGuardia. Joined by our airline trade association, the Air Transport Association, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates New York Liberty, Kennedy and LaGuardia, we have challenged the legality of the FAA withdrawal of slots from airlines for non-operational reasons and the slot auction in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. The court has ordered the FAA not to implement the rules while our challenge is pending, so the rules have not become effective and no slot withdrawals or auctions have occurred under such rules. We cannot provide any assurances that we will prevail in this challenge, and the withdrawal and auctioning to the highest bidder of our slots could have a material adverse effect on us by causing us to incur substantial costs to successfully bid for them or by reducing our slot portfolio, requiring us to terminate flights associated with these slots and increasing our costs to operate at these airports. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures or operational restrictions. Some FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. Many aspects of airlines' operations also are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws protecting the environment, including the imposition of additional taxes on airlines or their passengers. Future regulatory developments in the United States and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. The European Union has issued a directive to member states to include aviation in its Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme by February 2010, which will require us to have emissions allowances to operate flights to and from member states of the European Union in January 2012 and thereafter, including flights between the United States and the European Union. The U.S. government and other non-EU governments are expected to challenge the application of the EU emissions trading scheme to their airlines; however, we may be forced to comply with the EU emission trading scheme requirements during a legal challenge. We may have to purchase emissions allowances through the EU emissions trading scheme to cover EU flights that exceed our free allotment, which could result in substantial costs for us. Other regulatory actions that may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, foreign governments (including the European Union), or the International Civil Aviation Organization to address concerns about climate change and air emissions from the aviation sector are unknown at this time. Climate change legislation is anticipated in the United States, but it is currently unknown how the potential legislation will be applied to the aviation industry. The impact to us and our industry from such actions is likely to be adverse and could be significant, particularly if regulators were to conclude that emissions from commercial aircraft cause significant harm to the upper atmosphere or have a greater impact on climate change than other industries. Potential actions may include the imposition of requirements to purchase emission offsets or credits, which could require participation in emission trading (such as required in the European Union), substantial taxes on emissions and growth restrictions on airline operations, among other potential regulatory actions. Further, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities are not made available. We cannot provide assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect us. Additional terrorist attacks or international hostilities may further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and the airline industry generally. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats such as the August 2006 terrorist plot targeting multiple airlines, including us), could negatively affect us and the airline industry. The potential negative effects include increased security, insurance and other costs for us and lost revenue from increased ticket refunds and decreased ticket sales. Our financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the United States. Additional security requirements may increase our costs and decrease our traffic. Since September 11, 2001, the Department of Homeland Security ("DHS") and TSA have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and they are likely to implement additional measures in the future. Most recently, DHS has begun to implement the US-VISIT program (a program of fingerprinting and photographing foreign visa holders), announced that it will implement greater use of passenger data for evaluating security measures to be taken with respect to individual passengers, expanded the use of federal air marshals on our flights (who do not pay for their seats and thus displace revenue passengers and cause increased customer complaints from displaced passengers), begun investigating a requirement to install aircraft security systems (such as devices on commercial aircraft as countermeasures against portable surface to air missiles) and expanded cargo and baggage screening. DHS also has required certain flights to be cancelled on short notice for security reasons, and has required certain airports to remain at higher security levels than other locations. In addition, foreign governments also have begun to institute additional security measures at foreign airports we serve, out of their own security concerns or in response to security measures imposed by the United States. Moreover, the TSA has imposed measures affecting the contents of baggage that may be carried on an aircraft. The TSA and other security regulators could impose other measures as necessary to respond to security threats that may arise in the future. A large portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, and we believe that these and other security measures have the effect of decreasing the demand for air travel and the overall attractiveness of air transportation as compared to other modes of transportation. Additional security measures required by the U.S. and foreign governments in the future, such as further expanded cargo screening, might increase our costs or decrease the demand for air travel, adversely affecting our financial results. The airline industry is heavily taxed. The airline industry is subject to extensive government fees and taxation that negatively impact our revenue. The U.S. airline industry is one of the most heavily taxed of all industries. These fees and taxes have grown significantly in the past decade for domestic flights, and various U.S. fees and taxes also are assessed on international flights. In addition, the governments of foreign countries in which we operate impose on U.S. airlines, including us, various fees and taxes, and these assessments have been increasing in number and amount in recent years. Certain of these fees and taxes must be included in the fares we advertise or quote to our customers. Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in these fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the passenger. Further increases in fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel and thus our revenues. Airlines may continue to participate in industry consolidation or alliances, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are facing stronger competition from carriers that have participated in industry consolidation and from expanded airline alliances and joint ventures. Since its deregulation in 1978, the U.S. airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation and additional consolidation may occur in light of the recently completed merger of Delta and Northwest, which changed the competitive environment for us and the entire airline industry. As a result of the announcement of the Delta/Northwest merger agreement, we conducted a comprehensive review of our strategic alternatives and announced in April 2008 that we had determined that the best course for us was not to merge with another airline at such time. Through consolidation, carriers have the opportunity to significantly expand the reach of their networks, which is of primary importance to business travelers, and to achieve cost reductions by eliminating redundancy in their networks and their management structures. Through participation in airline alliances and/or joint ventures, carriers granted anti-trust immunity by the appropriate regulatory authorities are able to coordinate their routes, pool their revenues and costs and enjoy other mutual benefits, such as frequent flier program reciprocity, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. For example, Air France-KLM, Delta and Northwest have received anti-trust immunity to form a new trans-Atlantic joint venture among those airlines and to coordinate routes, fares, schedules and other matters among those airlines, Alitalia and CSA Czech Airlines. American Airlines, British Airways and Iberia have requested anti-trust immunity for a similar trans-Atlantic joint venture, which would also involve many of the same benefits. There may be additional consolidation or changes in airline alliances and/or joint ventures in the future, any of which could change the competitive landscape for the airline industry and have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance costs could increase materially or key coverage could become unavailable. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. Furthermore, our ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. Since the terrorist attacks, the U.S. government has provided war risk (terrorism) insurance to U.S. commercial airlines to cover losses. War risk insurance in amounts necessary for our operations, and at premiums that are not excessive, is not currently available in the commercial insurance market. If the government discontinues this coverage in whole or in part, we may be able to obtain comparable coverage in the commercial insurance market only, if it is available at all, for substantially higher premiums and on more restrictive terms. If we are unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Public health threats affecting travel behavior could have a material adverse effect on the industry. Public health threats, such as the bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARs) and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate, could adversely impact our operations and the worldwide demand for air travel. Any quarantine of personnel or inability to access our facilities or aircraft could adversely affect our operations. Travel restrictions or operational problems in any part of the world in which we operate, or any reduction in the demand for air travel caused by public health threats in the future, may materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. Due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenue in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year is generally stronger than revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year for most U.S. air carriers. Our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but also have been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including excise and similar taxes, weather and air traffic control delays, as well as the other factors discussed above. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 