Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry The airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting. The U.S. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. Carriers use discount fares to stimulate traffic during periods of slack demand or when they begin service to new cities or have excess capacity to generate cash flow and to establish or increase market share. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources (including more favorable hedges against fuel price increases) and/or lower cost structures than we do. In recent years, the domestic market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly and is expected to continue to increase, which is dramatically changing the airline industry. The increased market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of the network carriers to maintain sufficient pricing structures in domestic markets to achieve profitabili ty. We cannot predict whether or for how long these trends will continue. In addition to price competition, airlines also compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. Several of our domestic competitors are continuing to increase their international capacity, including service to some destinations that we currently serve. Additionally, the recent "open skies" agreement between the U.S. and the European Union will become effective on March 30, 2008 and could result in increased competition from European and U.S. airlines in these international markets, and may give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among European carriers. In addition, Air France-KLM, Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines have filed for anti-trust immunity seeking permission to form a new trans-Atlantic joint venture among those airlines and the coordination of routes, fares, schedules and other matters among those airlines, Alitalia and CSA Czech Airlines. Air France-KLM and Delta Air Lines announced in Oc tober 2007, in connection with this application for anti-trust immunity, their plans for a joint venture beginning in March 2008 that will initially cover all trans-Atlantic flights between the airlines' hubs and all flights between London's Heathrow Airport and any U.S. destination. The increased competition in these international markets, particularly to the extent our competitors engage in price discounting, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We are also facing stronger competition from carriers that have emerged from bankruptcy, including Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines, US Airways and United Airlines. Carriers typically emerge from bankruptcy with substantially lower costs than ours achieved by cost reductions through, among other things, reducing or discharging debt, lease and pension obligations and reducing wages and benefits. The airline industry may experience further consolidation that may affect our business strategy. Since its deregulation in 1978, the U.S. airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation and may experience additional consolidation in the future. Our preference is to remain independent; however, we would evaluate our strategic options if the competitive environment were likely to change due to one or more consolidations or similar transactions within the U.S. airline industry. There are potential consolidations that could adversely affect our competitive position and that could cause us to respond by attempting to engage in a separate transaction. We routinely monitor developments in the industry and engage in analysis and discussions regarding our strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and business combination transactions. We have had, and expect to continue to have, discussions with third parties, including other airlines, regarding strategic alternati ves. We cannot predict whether consolidation will occur or the impact on us of any consolidation within the U.S. airline industry. Our ability to engage in a business combination is currently restricted by our Series B preferred stock held by Northwest Airlines. Additionally, the ability of any third party to acquire us could be limited by our stockholder rights plan and Northwest's ability to block our redemption of the rights under certain circumstances. The execution of a definitive agreement by Northwest with respect to a transaction constituting a change of control of Northwest would, under certain circumstances, enable us to redeem the Series B preferred stock held by Northwest for a nominal sum, eliminating Northwest's right to prevent us from engaging in a business combination. Additional terrorist attacks or international hostilities may further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and the airline industry generally. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats such as the August 2006 terrorist plot targeting multiple airlines, including us), could negatively affect us and the airline industry. The potential negative effects include increased security, insurance and other costs for us and lost revenue from increased ticket refunds and decreased ticket sales. Our financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or o ther international hostilities involving the United States. Additional security requirements may increase our costs and decrease our traffic. Since September 11, 2001, the Department of Homeland Security ("DHS") and TSA have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and they are likely to implement additional measures in the future. Most recently, DHS has begun to implement the US-VISIT program (a program of fingerprinting and photographing foreign visa holders), announced that it will implement greater use of passenger data for evaluating security measures to be taken with respect to individual passengers, expanded the use of federal air marshals on our flights (who do not pay for their seats and thus displace revenue passengers and cause increased customer complaints from displaced passengers), begun investigating a requirement to install aircraft security systems (such as active devices on commercial aircraft as countermeasures against portable surface to air missiles) and expanded cargo and baggage scr eening. DHS also has required certain flights to be cancelled on short notice for security reasons, and has required certain airports to remain at higher security levels than other locations. In addition, foreign governments also have begun to institute additional security measures at foreign airports we serve, out of their own security concerns or in response to security measures imposed by the U.S. Moreover, the TSA has imposed additional measures affecting the contents of baggage that may be carried on an aircraft in response to the discovery in August 2006 of a terrorist plot targeting several airlines, including us. The TSA and other security regulators may impose other measures as necessary to respond to future threats. A large portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, and we believe that these and other security measures have the effect of decreasing the demand for air travel and the overall attractiveness of air transportation as compared to other modes of transportation. Additional security measures required by the U.S. and foreign governments in the future, such as further expanded cargo screening, might increase our costs or decrease the demand for air travel, adversely affecting our financial results. Expanded government regulation could further increase our operating costs and restrict our ability to conduct our business. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs and can adversely affect us. Additional laws, regulations, airport rates and charges and growth constraints have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. Recent "growth constraint" proposals would impose restrictions on the total number of flights that can be operated at congested airports or in congested airspace or, during periods of peak demand at congested airports, "congestion" fees or other forms of additional taxation. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Some FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environment concerns, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. Many aspects of airlines' operations also are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws protecting the environment, including the imposition of additional taxes on airlines or their passengers. Future regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. For example, future actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, foreign governments (including the European Union), or the International Civil Aviation Organization to address concerns about climate change and air emissions from the aviation sector are unknown at this time, but the effect on us and our industry is likely to be adverse and could be significant. Among those potential actions is the European Union's consideration of an emissions trading scheme applicable to all flights operating in the European Union, including flights to and from the United States. Restrictions on the ownership and transfer of airline routes and takeoff and landing slots have been proposed and, in some cases, adopted. The ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities are not made available. We cannot provide assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect us. The airline industry is heavily taxed. The airline industry is subject to extensive government fees and taxation that negatively impact our revenue. The U.S. airline industry is one of the most heavily taxed of all industries. These fees and taxes have grown significantly in the past decade for domestic flights, and various U.S. fees and taxes also are assessed on international flights. In addition, the governments of foreign countries in which we operate impose on U.S. airlines, including us, various fees and taxes, and these assessments have been increasing in number and amount in recent years. Certain of these fees and taxes must be included in the fares we advertise or quote to our customers. Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in these fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the passenger. Further increases in fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel and thus our revenues. Insurance costs could increase materially or key coverage could become unavailable. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. Accordingly, our insurance costs have increased significantly and our ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. Since the terrorist attacks, the U.S. government has provided war risk (terrorism) insurance to U.S. commercial airlines to cover losses. War risk insurance in amounts necessary for our operations, and at premiums that are not excessive, is not currently available in the commercial insurance market. If the government discontinues this coverage in whole or in part, obtaining comparable coverage in the commercial insurance market, if it is available at all, could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms. If we are unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, our busi ness could be materially and adversely affected. If any of our aircraft were to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. We carry insurance to cover damages arising from any such accidents, but in the event that our liability exceeds the applicable policy limits, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. Public health threats affecting travel behavior could have a material adverse effect on the industry. Public health threats, such as the bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARs) and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have already occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate, could adversely impact our operations and the worldwide demand for air travel. Any quarantine of personnel or inability to access our facilities or aircraft could adversely affect our operations. Travel restrictions or operational problems in any part of the world in which we operate, or any reduction in the demand for air travel caused by public health threats in the future, may materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. An economic downturn could result in less demand for air travel. Many economists have reported that the U.S. economy is slowing, and may be headed toward a recession. The airline industry is highly cyclical, and the growth in demand for air travel is correlated to the growth in the U.S. and global economies. A recession in these economies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the declining value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, such as the British pound, Japanese yen and the euro, increases the costs to U.S. residents of traveling internationally, thereby reducing the demand for air travel and potentially having a material adverse effect on us. Our results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. Due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenue in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year is generally stronger than revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year for most U.S. air carriers. Our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but also have been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including excise and similar taxes, weather and air traffic control delays, as well as the other factors discussed above. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 