ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although risk factors are described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in Units of the Trust. Oil and gas prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce net proceeds to the Trust and distributions to Unit Holders. The Trust’s monthly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. Oil and gas prices can fluctuate widely on a month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and BROG. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others: • political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war or other armed conflicts in oil producing regions; • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions; • the supply and price of foreign oil and gas; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. 4 Table of Contents Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term. Lower oil and gas prices may reduce the amount of oil and gas that is economic to produce and reduce net profits to the Trust. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unit Holders. Increased costs of production and development will result in decreased Trust distributions. Production and development costs attributable to the Underlying Properties are deducted in the calculation of net proceeds. Accordingly, higher or lower production and development costs, without concurrent increases in revenues, directly decrease or increase the share of net proceeds paid to the Trust as Royalty Income. If development and production costs of the Underlying Properties exceed the proceeds of production from the Underlying Properties, such excess costs are carried forward and the Trust will not receive a share of net proceeds for the Underlying Properties until future net proceeds from production from such properties exceed the total of the excess costs. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs; however, the Trust is not obligated to repay the excess costs except through future production. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimated reserves and estimated future revenues to be too high. The value of the Units of the Trust depends upon, among other things, the amount of reserves attributable to the Royalty and the estimated future value of the reserves. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Underlying Properties will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include: • historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; • the assumed effect of governmental regulation; and • assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures. Changes in these assumptions can materially change reserve estimates. The reserve data included herein are estimates only and are subject to many uncertainties. Actual quantities of oil and natural gas may differ considerably from the amounts set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities and cash flows based upon the same available data. The operators of the Underlying Properties are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Oil and gas operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. Operating risks for BROG and other operators of the Underlying Properties can adversely affect Trust distributions. Royalty Income payable to the Trust is derived from the production and sale of oil and gas, which operations are subject to risk inherent in such activities, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and other environmental risks and litigation concerning routine and extraordinary business activities and events. These risks could result in substantial losses which are deducted in calculating the net proceeds paid to the Trust due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. 5 Table of Contents None of the Trustee, the Trust nor the Unit Holders control the operation or development of the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit Holders can influence or control the operation or future development of the Underlying Properties. The Underlying Properties are owned by BROG and BROG operates the majority of such properties and handles the calculation of the net proceeds attributable to the Royalty and the payment of Royalty Income to the Trust. The Royalty can be sold and the Trust can be terminated in certain circumstances. The Trust will be terminated and the Trustee must sell the Royalty if holders of at least 75% of the Units approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust, or if the Trust’s gross revenue for each of two successive years is less than $1,000,000 per year. Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the Unit Holders and Unit Holders will receive no further distributions from the Trust. We cannot assure you that any such sale will be on terms acceptable to all Unit Holders. Mineral properties, such as the Underlying Properties, are depleting assets and, if BROG or other operators of the Underlying Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. The Royalty Income payable to the Trust is derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to Unit Holders (to the extent of depletion taken) may be considered a return of capital. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Underlying Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of natural gas. If BROG does not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. Unit Holders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a Unit Holder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unit Holders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Unlike corporations, which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a corporate Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and other organizational documents. The Trustee has extremely limited discretion in its administration of the Trust. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Trust has not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 