ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although risk factors are described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in Units of the Trust. Oil and gas prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce net proceeds to the Trust and distributions to Unit Holders. The Trust’s monthly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of gas and, to a lesser extent, oil. Oil and gas prices can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and BROG. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others: • political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war or other armed conflicts in oil producing regions; • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions; • the supply and price of foreign oil and gas, including liquefied natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term. 4 Table of Contents Lower oil and gas prices may reduce the amount of oil and gas that is economic to produce and reduce net profits to the Trust. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unit Holders. Increased costs of production and development will result in decreased Trust distributions. Production and development costs attributable to the Underlying Properties are deducted in the calculation of net proceeds. Accordingly, higher or lower production and development costs, without concurrent increases in revenues, directly decrease or increase the share of net proceeds paid to the Trust as Royalty Income. If development and production costs of the Underlying Properties exceed the proceeds of production from the Underlying Properties, such excess costs are carried forward and the Trust will not receive a share of net proceeds for the Underlying Properties until future net proceeds from production from such properties exceed the total of the excess costs. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs; however, the Trust is not obligated to repay the excess costs except through future production. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimated reserves and estimated future revenues to be too high. The value of the Units of the Trust depends upon, among other things, the amount of reserves attributable to the Royalty and the estimated future value of the reserves. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Underlying Properties will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include: • historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; • the assumed effect of governmental regulation; and • assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures. Changes in these assumptions can materially change reserve estimates. The reserve data included herein are estimates only and are subject to many uncertainties. Actual quantities of oil and natural gas may differ considerably from the amounts set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserve quantities and cash flows based upon the same available data. The operators of the Underlying Properties are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Oil and gas operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. Also, climate change laws and regulations may, in the future, have an increasing impact on oil and natural gas production, gathering, marketing and transportation. Operating risks for BROG and other operators of the Underlying Properties can adversely affect Trust distributions. Royalty Income payable to the Trust is derived from the sale of natural gas and oil production following the gathering and processing of those minerals, which operations are subject to risk inherent in such activities, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires, pollution and other environmental risks and litigation concerning routine and extraordinary business activities and events. These risks could result in substantial losses which are deducted in calculating the net proceeds paid to the Trust due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. 5 Table of Contents None of the Trustee, the Trust nor the Unit Holders control the operation or development of the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit Holders can influence or control the operation or future development of the Underlying Properties. The Underlying Properties are owned by BROG and BROG operates the majority of such properties and handles the calculation of the net proceeds attributable to the Royalty and the payment of Royalty Income to the Trust. The Royalty can be sold and the Trust can be terminated in certain circumstances. The Trust will be terminated and the Trustee must sell the Royalty if holders of at least 75% of the Units approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust, or if the Trust’s gross revenue for each of two successive years is less than $1,000,000 per year. Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the Unit Holders and Unit Holders will receive no further distributions from the Trust. We cannot assure you that any such sale will be on terms acceptable to all Unit Holders. Mineral properties, such as the Underlying Properties, are depleting assets and, if BROG or other operators of the Underlying Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. The Royalty Income payable to the Trust is derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to Unit Holders (to the extent of depletion taken) may be considered a return of capital. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Underlying Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of natural gas. If BROG does not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. Unit Holders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a Unit Holder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unit Holders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Unlike corporations, which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a corporate trustee in accordance with the Indenture and other organizational documents. The Trustee has extremely limited discretion in its administration of the Trust. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS During the 180-day period before the end of the Trust’s fiscal year to which this Annual Report on Form 10-K relates, the Trust did not receive any written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The Royalty conveyed to the Trust was carved out of Southland Royalty’s (now BROG’s) working interests and royalty interests in certain properties situated in the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico. See Item 1. Business for information on the conveyance of the Royalty to the Trust. References below to “gross” wells and acres are to the interests of all persons owning interests therein, while references to “net” are to the interests of BROG (from which the Royalty was carved) in such wells and acres. Unless otherwise indicated, the following information in this Item 2 is based upon data and information furnished to the Trustee by BROG. Producing Acreage, Wells and Drilling The Underlying Properties consist of working interests, royalty interests, overriding royalty interests and other contractual rights in 151,900 gross (119,000 net) producing acres in San Juan, Rio Arriba and Sandoval Counties of 6 Table of Contents northwestern New Mexico and 3,967 gross (1,163 net) wells, calculated on a well bore basis and not including multiple completions as separate wells. Of those wells, seven gross (5.50 net) are oil wells and the balance are gas wells. BROG reports that approximately 794 of the wells are multiple completion wells resulting in a total of 4,761 completions. The Trust has inquired of BROG whether the acreage is developed or undeveloped. BROG has informed the Trust that all of the subject acreage is held by production, and even though it has not been fully developed in every formation, BROG has classified all of such acreage as developed. Production from conventional gas wells is primarily from the Pictured Cliffs, Mesaverde and Dakota formations. During 1988, Southland Royalty began development of coal seam reserves in the Fruitland Coal formation. The Royalty conveyed to the Trust is limited to the base of the Dakota formation, which is currently the deepest significant producing formation under acreage affected by the Royalty. Rights to production, if any, from deeper formations are retained by BROG. Capital expenses of $33.6 million were included in calculating Royalty Income paid to the Trust in calendar year 2009, and included expenditures for the drilling and completion of 92 gross (17.18 net) conventional wells, 36 gross (19.55 net) coal seam wells, two gross (.84 net) conventional recompletions, and one gross (.85 net) coal seam recompletion. There were 11 gross (1.21 net) conventional wells in progress as of December 31, 2009. All of the wells were development wells. Approximately $25.5 million of capital expenditures covered 256 projects budgeted for 2009. Approximately $16.7 million of those costs were incurred in new drilling activity, which included 50 new wells operated by BROG and no new wells operated by third parties. The balance of the expenditures allocable to current projects was attributable to the workover of existing wells and the maintenance and improvement of production facilities. The $33.6 million of capital expenses reported by BROG for 2009 also included approximately $8.1 million attributable to the capital budgets for prior years. This occurs because capital expenditures are deducted in calculating royalty income in the month they accrue, and projects within a given year’s budget often extend into subsequent years. Further, BROG’s accounting period for capital expenditures runs through November 30 of each calendar year, such that capital expenditures incurred in December of each year are actually accounted for as part of the following year’s capital expenditures. In addition, with respect to wells not operated by BROG, BROG’s share of capital expenditures may not actually be paid by it until the year or years after those expenses were incurred by the operator. During 2008, in calculating Royalty Income, BROG deducted approximately $27.0 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 118 gross (14.37 net) conventional wells and 40 gross (16.16 net) coal seam wells. There were 18 gross (5.51 net) conventional wells and four gross (1.48 net) coal seam wells in progress as of December 31, 2008. All of the wells were development wells. During 2007, in calculating Royalty Income, BROG deducted approximately $27.4 million of capital expenditures for projects, including drilling and completion of 45 gross (21.47 net) conventional wells and 21 gross (15.31 net) coal seam wells. There were 10 gross (0.35 net) conventional wells and nine gross (4.52 net) coal seam wells in progress as of December 31, 2007. All of the wells were development wells. BROG has informed the Trust that its budget for capital expenditures for the Underlying Properties in 2010 is estimated at $17.9 million. In addition, BROG estimates that during 2010 it will incur capital expenses in the amount of approximately $6.8 million attributable to the capital budgets for 2009 and prior years. BROG reports that based on its actual capital requirements, the pace of regulatory approvals, the mix of projects and swings in the price of natural gas, the actual capital expenditures for 2010 could range from $10 million to $45 million. BROG anticipates 305 projects in 2010. Approximately $7.2 million of the $17.9 million budget is allocable to 43 new wells, including 41 wells scheduled to be dually completed in the Mesaverde and Dakota formations. BROG indicates that two of the new wells are projected to be drilled to Fruitland Coal or Pictured Cliffs formations. Approximately $3.8 million will be spent on workovers and facilities projects. Of the $6.8 million attributable to the budgets for prior years, approximately $4.4 million is allocable to new wells and the $2.4 million balance will be applied to miscellaneous capital projects such as workovers and operated facility projects. BROG mentioned that the possible implementation of new air quality rules and rules requiring the minimization of surface disturbances, 7 Table of Contents implementation of closed-loop systems for the disposal of drilling fluids and cuttings, and the restricted use of open reserve pits could reduce the number of projects due to increased compliance costs. In February 2002, BROG informed the Trust that the New Mexico Oil Conservation Division (the “OCD”) had approved plans for 80-acre infill drilling of the Dakota formation in the San Juan Basin. In July 2003, the OCD approved 160-acre spacing in the Fruitland Coal formation. Eighty-acre spacing has been permitted in the Mesaverde formation since 1997. In 2008, BROG participated in a study involving a total of 15 test wells completed to the Mesaverde and/or Dakota formations, with some of the test wells drilled on a 40-acre spacing basis. BROG also participated in a pilot project for the drilling of two horizontal wells to the Dakota formation, neither of which were drilled on acreage burdened by the Royalty. In 2009, BROG drilled and completed a horizontal well in the Fruitland Coal formation on acreage that is burdened by the Royalty. BROG indicates that it will continue its program of horizontal drilling in 2010 as improved technology makes these wells more efficient and anticipated increases in production outweigh the increased costs incurred in the drilling and completion of horizontal wells as compared to more traditional vertical wells. Oil and Gas Production The Trust recognizes production during the month in which the related net proceeds attributable to the Royalty are paid to the Trust. Royalty Income for a calendar year is based on the actual gas and oil production during the period beginning with November of the preceding calendar year through October of the current calendar year. Production of oil and gas and related average sales prices attributable to the Royalty for the three years ended December 31, 2009, were as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Gas Oil Gas Oil Gas Oil (Mcf) (Bbls) (Mcf) (Bbls) (Mcf) (Bbls) Production 9,823,255 15,961 19,529,046 28,221 20,116,806 35,129 Average Price $ 3.48 $ 53.45 $ 8.28 $ 99.32 $ 6.11 $ 63.14 Production volumes and costs attributable to the Underlying Properties for the three years ended December 31, 2009, were as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Production (Mcf) 35,067,662 34,527,043 36,961,349 Total Production Costs (including capital expenses) $ 77,490,462 $ 86,919,736 $ 77,932,758 Average Production Costs per Unit of Production $ 2.2097 $ 2.5174 $ 2.1085 Lease Operating Expenses $ 32,166,198 $ 32,867,589 $ 27,947,790 Average Lifting Cost per Unit of Production $ .9173 $ .9519 $ .7561 Pricing Information Gas produced in the San Juan Basin is sold in both interstate and intrastate commerce. Reference is made to the discussion contained herein under “Regulation” for information as to federal regulation of prices of oil and natural gas. Gas production from the Underlying Properties totaled 35,067,662 Mcf during 2009. BROG previously entered into three contracts for the sale of all volumes of gas produced from the Underlying Properties to ChevronTexaco Natural Gas, a division of Chevron U.S.A. Inc. (“ChevronTexaco”), Coral Energy Resources, L.P. (“Coral”), and PNM Gas Services (“PNM”), respectively. In March 2008, both ChevronTexaco and Coral notified BROG of their election to terminate their respective contracts effective March 31, 2009. Requests for proposal were circulated to potential purchasers of the packages of gas covered by the expiring contracts. Neither BROG nor PNM gave notice of termination with respect to the PNM contract and, by agreement of the parties, the term of that contract has been extended through at least March 31, 2011. On December 11, 2008, the New Mexico Public Regulatory Commission approved the sale of the gas utility assets of PNM to New Mexico Gas Company, Inc. (“NMGC”) and, effective as of January 30, 2009, the PNM contract was assigned to and assumed by NMGC. 8 Table of Contents BROG has now entered into four new contracts effective April 1, 2009, for the sale of all gas produced from the Underlying Properties other than the gas covered by the NMGC contract. The new purchasers are Chevron Natural Gas, a division of Chevron USA, Inc. (“Chevron”), Pacific Gas and Electric Company, BP Energy Company and Macquarie Cook Energy LLC. All four of the new contracts and the pre-existing NMGC contract provide for (i) the delivery of such gas at various delivery points through March 31, 2011 and from year-to-year thereafter, until terminated by either party on 12 months’ notice; and (ii) the sale of such gas at prices which fluctuate in accordance with the published indices for gas sold in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. Although the primary term of the Chevron contract continues until March 31, 2011, a portion of that contract was set to expire on March 31, 2010. BROG has notified the Trust that it has reached agreement with Chevron for the sale of that gas such that all gas produced from the Underlying Properties is now contracted for sale, on the terms described above, through March 31, 2011. BROG contracts with Williams Four Corners, LLC (“WFC”) and Enterprise Field Services, LLC (“EFS”) for the gathering and processing of virtually all of the gas produced from the Underlying Properties. Four new contracts have been entered into with WFC to be effective for terms of 15 years commencing April 1, 2010. The new contracts will consolidate and replace 18 prior contracts with WFC. BROG indicates that the new contracts are anticipated to provide some modest reductions in fees and also improved services, including more rigorous line pressure controls and the right to install compression facilities as needed. However, BROG reports that it has been unable to reach agreement with EFS on gathering and production contracts, and it has joined a group of 51 others in initiating an administrative proceeding before the New Mexico Public Utility Commission, complaining, inter alia, that EFS is insisting upon above-market rates and refusing to agree to essential pressure control services. Gas is currently being gathered and processed by EFS on a month-to-month basis. The Trustee will continue to monitor this matter as it may relate to the Trust. Confidentiality agreements with gatherers and purchasers of gas produced from the Underlying Properties prohibit public disclosure of certain terms and conditions of gas sales contracts with those entities, including specific pricing terms and gas receipt points. Such disclosure could compromise the ability to compete effectively in the marketplace for the sale of gas produced from the Underlying Properties. Oil and Gas Reserves The following are definitions adopted by the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board which are applicable to terms used within this Annual Report on Form 10-K: “Estimated future net revenues” are computed by applying current prices of oil and gas (with consideration of price changes only to the extent provided by contractual arrangements and allowed by federal regulation) to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves, and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. See 22 CFR 210.4-10(c)(4)(A). “Estimated future net revenues” are sometimes referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as “estimated future net cash flows.” “Present value of estimated future net revenues” is computed using the estimated future net revenues (as defined above) and a discount rate of 10%. “Proved oil and gas reserves” are those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible — from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations — prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(22). “Proved reserves” are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known oil and gas reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(2)(iii). 9 Table of Contents “Proved undeveloped reserves” or “PUDs” are undeveloped oil and gas reserves. “Reasonable certainty” means (i) if deterministic methods are used, reasonable certainty means a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered or (ii) if probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical, and geochemical), engineering, and economic data are made to estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) with time, reasonably certain EUR is much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(24). “Reserves” are estimated remaining quantities of oil and gas and related substances anticipated to be economically producible, as of a given date, by application of development projects to known accumulations. In addition, there must exist, or there must be a reasonable expectation that there will exist, the legal right to produce or a revenue interest in the production, installed means of delivering oil and gas or related substances to market, and all permits and financing required to implement the project. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(26). “Undeveloped oil and gas reserves” are reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. See 17 CFR 210.4-10(a)(31). The independent petroleum engineers’ reports as to the proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, were prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. (“CG&A”). CG&A, whose firm registration number is F-693, was founded in 1961 and is a worldwide leader in the evaluation of oil and gas properties. The technical person at CG&A primarily responsible for overseeing the reserve estimate with respect to the Trust is Zane Meekins. Mr. Meekins has been a practicing petroleum engineering consultant since 1989, with over 22 years of practice experience in petroleum engineering. He is a registered professional engineer in the State of Texas (License No. 71055). He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1987, summa cum laude, with a B.S. in Petroleum Engineering. CG&A and Mr. Meekins have indicated that they meet or exceed all requirements set forth in Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. The following table presents a reconciliation of proved reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty from December 31, 2006, to December 31, 2009, (in thousands): Crude Natural Oil Gas (Bbls) (Mcf) Reserves as of December 31, 2006 400 220,461 Revisions of previous estimates 3 (15,263 ) Extensions, discoveries and other additions 20 9,774 Production (35 ) (20,117 ) Reserves as of December 31, 2007 388 194,855 Revisions of previous estimates (117 ) (26,004 ) Extensions, discoveries and other additions 6 7,012 Production (28 ) (19,529 ) Reserves as of December 31, 2008 249 156,334 Revisions of previous estimates (30 ) (17,386 ) Extensions, discoveries and other additions 4 4,711 Production (16 ) (9,823 ) Reserves as of December 31, 2009 207 133,836 10 Table of Contents Estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in thousands): 2009 2008 2007 Crude Oil (Bbls) 197 207 333 Natural Gas (Mcf) 127,771 139,770 171,165 A summary of estimated quantities by geographic area for proved oil and gas reserves and undeveloped oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2009 were as follows (in thousands): Crude Oil Natural Gas Reserves Category Reserves Reserves (Bbls) (Mcf) Proved 207 133,836 Developed: United States 197 127,771 Other Countries 0 0 Undeveloped: United States 10 6,065 Other Countries 0 0 Total Proved 207 133,836 Based on information provided by BROG, there were 193 PUDs identified as of December 31, 2008, as compared to 139 as of December 31, 2009. Due to changes in applicable federal regulations, the current estimate no longer includes 59 PUDs identified but not drilled within five years from date of booking. The current estimate has also been adjusted to take into account the elimination of PUDs no longer deemed commercial due to declines in the market price of natural gas, as well as new PUDs identified during the year and those converted to proved developed, all in the ordinary course of business. See 