Item 1A. Risk Factors Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile and fluctuate in response to a number of factors; Lower prices could reduce the net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions. The Trust’s monthly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of crude oil and natural gas and a material decrease in such prices could reduce the amount of cash distributions paid to Unit holders. Crude oil and natural gas prices can fluctuate widely on a month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others: • political conditions in major oil producing regions, especially in the Middle East; • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions; • the supply and price of domestic and foreign crude oil or natural gas; 3 Table of Contents • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and • the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation. When crude oil and natural gas prices decline, the Trust is affected in two ways. First, net income from the Royalties is reduced. Second, exploration and development activity on the Underlying Properties may decline as some projects may become uneconomic and are either delayed or eliminated. It is impossible to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements, and this reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unit holders. Increased production and development costs attributable to the Royalties will result in decreased Trust distributions unless revenues also increase. Production and development costs attributable to the Royalties are deducted in the calculation of the Trust’s share of net proceeds. Accordingly, higher or lower production and development costs will directly decrease or increase the amount received by the Trust from the Royalties. Production and development costs are impacted by increases in commodity prices, both directly, through commodity price dependent costs, such as electricity, and indirectly, as a result of demand driven increases in costs of oilfield goods and services. For example, the costs of electricity that will be included in production and development costs deducted in calculating the Trust’s share of 2014 net proceeds could increase compared to the electrical costs incurred during 2013 if higher fuel surcharges are charged by the third party electricity provider in response to any increased costs of natural gas consumed to generate the electricity. These increased costs could reduce the Trust’s share of 2014 net proceeds below the level that would exist if such costs remained at the level experienced in 2013. If production and development costs attributable to the Royalties exceed the gross proceeds related to production from the Underlying Properties, the Trust will not receive net proceeds until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest during the deficit period. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional proceeds to repay the costs. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimated reserves and estimated future net revenues to be too high, leading to write-downs of estimated reserves. The value of the Units will depend upon, among other things, the reserves attributable to the Royalties from the Underlying Properties. The calculations of proved reserves and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. In addition, the estimates of future net revenues are based upon various assumptions regarding future production levels, prices and costs that may prove to be incorrect over time. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering interpretation and judgment and the assumptions used regarding the quantities of recoverable crude oil and natural gas and the future prices of crude oil and natural gas. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make many assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include: • historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; • the effects of governmental regulation; • assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, taxes, and capital expenditures; 4 Table of Contents • the availability of enhanced recovery techniques; and • relationships with landowners, working interest partners, pipeline companies and others. Changes in any of these factors and assumptions can materially change reserve and future net revenue estimates. The Trust’s estimate of reserves and future net revenues is further complicated because the Trust holds an interest in net overriding royalties and does not own a specific percentage of the crude oil or natural gas reserves. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Underlying Properties, and therefore actual net proceeds payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of those estimates may require substantial downward revisions or write-downs of reserves. The assets of the Trust are depleting assets and, if BROG and the other operators developing the Underlying Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. Eventually, the assets of the Trust will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will cease to receive proceeds from such assets. In addition, a reduction in depletion tax benefits may reduce the market value of the Units. The net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Underlying Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves and can offset the reduction in proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of crude oil and natural gas. If the operators developing the Underlying Properties, including BROG, do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. Because the net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to the Unit holders, which could reduce the market value of the Units over time. Eventually, the Royalties will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of net proceeds therefrom. Future royalty income may be subject to risks relating to the creditworthiness of third parties. The Trust does not lend money and has limited ability to borrow money, which the Trustee believes limits the Trust’s risk from the current tightening of credit markets. The Trust’s future royalty income, however, may be subject to risks relating to the creditworthiness of the operators of the Underlying Properties and other purchasers of the crude oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties, as well as risks associated with fluctuations in the price of crude oil and natural gas. The market price for the Units may not reflect the value of the royalty interests held by the Trust. The public trading price for the Units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distribution on the Units. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including prevailing prices for crude oil and natural gas produced from the Royalties. The market price is not necessarily indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if it sold those Royalties to a third party buyer. In addition, such market price is not necessarily reflective of the fact that since the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the Units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a Unit holder over the life of these depleting assets will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the Unit holder. 5 Table of Contents Operational risks and hazards associated with the development of the Underlying Properties may decrease Trust distributions. There are operational risks and hazards associated with the production and transportation of crude oil and natural gas, including without limitation natural disasters, blowouts, explosions, fires, leakage of crude oil or natural gas, releases of other hazardous materials, mechanical failures, cratering, and pollution. Any of these or similar occurrences could result in the interruption or cessation of operations, personal injury or loss of life, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment, or damage to the environment or natural resources, or cleanup obligations. The operation of oil and gas properties is also subject to various laws and regulations. Non-compliance with such laws and regulations could subject the operator to additional costs, sanctions or liabilities. The uninsured costs resulting from any of these or similar occurrences could be deducted as a cost of production in calculating the net proceeds payable to the Trust and would therefore reduce Trust distributions by the amount of such uninsured costs. As oil and gas production from the Waddell Ranch properties is processed through a single facility, future distributions from those properties may be particularly susceptible to such risks. A partial or complete shut down of operations at that facility could disrupt the flow of royalty payments to the Trust and, accordingly, the Trust’s distributions to its Unit holders. In addition, although BROG is the operator of record of the properties burdened by the Waddell Ranch overriding royalty interests, none of the Trustee, the Unit holders or BROG has an operating interest in the properties burdened by the Texas Royalty properties’ (as defined herein on page 8) overriding royalty interests. As a result, these parties are not in a position to eliminate or mitigate the above or similar occurrences with respect to such properties and may not become aware of such occurrences prior to any reduction in Trust distributions which may result therefrom. Terrorism and continued hostilities in the Middle East could decrease Trust distributions or the market price of the Units. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as the military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism and sustained military campaigns could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the Units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators developing the Underlying Properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. Unit holders and the Trustee have no influence over the operations on, or future development of, the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit holders can influence or control the operations on, or future development of, the Underlying Properties. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. The current operators developing the Underlying Properties are under no obligation to continue operations on the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit holders have the right to replace an operator. The operators developing the Texas Royalty properties have no duty to protect the interests of the Unit holders and do not have sole discretion regarding development activities on the Underlying Properties. Under the terms of a typical operating agreement relating to oil and gas properties, the operator owes a duty to working interest owners to conduct its operations on the properties in a good and workmanlike manner and in accordance with its best judgment of what a prudent operator would do under the same or similar circumstances. BROG is the operator of record of the Waddell Ranch overriding royalty interests and in such capacity owes the Trust a contractual duty under the conveyance agreement for that overriding royalty interest to operate the Waddell 6 Table of Contents Ranch properties in good faith and in accordance with a prudent operator standard. The operators of the properties burdened by the Texas Royalty properties’ overriding royalty interests, however, have no contractual or fiduciary duty to protect the interests of the Trust or the Unit holders other than indirectly through its duty of prudent operations to the unaffiliated owners of the working interests in those properties. In addition, even if an operator, including BROG in the case of the Waddell Ranch properties (as defined herein on page 8), concludes that a particular development operation is prudent on a property, it may be unable to undertake such activity unless it is approved by the requisite approval of the working interest owners of such properties (typically the owners of at least a majority of the working interests). Even if the Trust concludes that such activities in respect of any of its overriding royalty interests would be in its best interests, it has no right to cause those activities to be undertaken. The operator developing any Underlying Property may transfer its interest in the property without the consent of the Trust or the Unit holders. Any operator developing any of the Underlying Properties may at any time transfer all or part of its interest in the Underlying Properties to another party. Neither the Trust nor the Unit holders are entitled to vote on any transfer of the properties underlying the Royalties, and the Trust will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the transferred property will continue to be subject to the Royalties, but the net proceeds from the transferred property will be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee will be responsible for all of the transferor’s obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to the Trust the Royalties from the transferred property, and the transferor will have no continuing obligation to the Trust for that property. The operator developing any Underlying Property may abandon the property, thereby terminating the Royalties payable to the Trust. The operators developing the Underlying Properties, or any transferee thereof, may abandon any well or property without the consent of the Trust or the Unit holders if they reasonably believe that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in the termination of the Royalties relating to the abandoned well or property. The Royalties can be sold and the Trust would be terminated. The Trustee must sell the Royalties if the holders of 75% or more of the Units approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust. The Trustee must also sell the Royalties if they fail to generate net revenue for the Trust of at least $1,000,000 per year over any consecutive two-year period. Sale of all of the Royalties will terminate the Trust. The net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the Unit holders. The sale of the remaining Royalties and the termination of the Trust will be taxable events to the Unit holders. Generally, a Unit holder will realize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale and termination of the Trust and his adjusted basis in such Units. Gain or loss realized by a Unit holder who is not a dealer with respect to such Units and who has a holding period for the Units of more than one year will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss except to the extent of any depletion recapture amount, which must be treated as ordinary income. Other federal and state tax issues concerning the Trust are discussed under Note 4 and Note 7 to the Trust’s financial statements, which are included herein. Each Unit holder should consult his own tax advisor regarding Trust tax compliance matters, including federal and state tax implications concerning the sale of the Royalties and the termination of the Trust. Unit holders have limited voting rights and have limited ability to enforce the Trust’s rights against the current or future operators developing the Underlying Properties. The voting rights of a Unit holder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unit holders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. 7 Table of Contents The Trust indenture and related trust law permit the Trustee and the Trust to sue BROG, Riverhill Energy Corporation or any other future operators developing the Underlying Properties to compel them to fulfill the terms of the conveyance of the Royalties. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the conveyance, the recourse of the Unit holders would likely be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. Unit holders probably would not be able to sue BROG, Riverhill Energy Corporation or any other future operators developing the Underlying Properties. Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with GAAP. The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the financial statements of the Trust differ from GAAP financial statements because revenues are not accrued in the month of production and cash reserves may be established for specified contingencies and deducted which could not be accrued in GAAP financial statements. The limited liability of the Unit holders is uncertain. The Unit holders are not protected from the liabilities of the Trust to the same extent that a shareholder would be protected from a corporation’s liabilities. The structure of the Trust does not include the interposition of a limited liability entity such as a corporation or limited partnership which would provide further limited liability protection to Unit holders. While the Trustee is liable for any excess liabilities incurred if the Trustee fails to insure that such liabilities are to be satisfied only out of Trust assets, under the laws of Texas, which are unsettled on this point, a holder of Units may be jointly and severally liable for any liability of the Trust if the satisfaction of such liability was not contractually limited to the assets of the Trust and the assets of the Trust and the Trustee are not adequate to satisfy such liability. As a result, Unit holders may be exposed to personal liability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Trust has not received any written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Act not less than 180 days before December 31, 2013, which comments remain unresolved. 