Item 1A. Risk Factors Additional Risk Factors to Consider: An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to invest in our securities. The risks described below are the material risks of which we are currently aware; however, they may not be the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business. If any of these risks develop into actual events, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our dependence upon fixed-price contracts could adversely affect our operating results. The majority of our projects are currently performed on a fixed-price basis. Under a fixed-price contract, we agree on the price that we will receive for the entire project, based upon a defined scope, which includes specific assumptions and project criteria. If our estimates of our own costs to complete the project are below the actual costs that we may incur, our margins will decrease, and we may incur a loss. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a fixed-price contract will often vary from the estimated amounts because of unforeseen conditions or changes in job conditions and variations in labor and equipment productivity over the term of the contract. If we are unsuccessful in mitigating these risks, we may realize gross profits that are different from those originally estimated and incur reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending on the size of a project, these variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant effect on our operating results for any quarter or year. In general, turnkey contracts to be performed on a fixed-price basis involve an increased risk of significant variations. This is a result of the long-term nature of these contracts and the inherent difficulties in estimating costs and of the interrelationship of the integrated services to be provided under these contracts whereby unanticipated costs or delays in performing part of the contract can have compounding effects by increasing costs of performing other parts of the contract. If actual costs for our projects with fixed-price contracts exceed our original estimates, our profits will be reduced or we may suffer losses. The majority of our contracts are fixed-priced contracts. Although we benefit from cost savings, we have limited ability to recover cost overruns. Because of the large scale and long-term nature of our contracts, unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors, including: • increases in cost or shortages of components, materials or labor; • unanticipated technical problems; • required project modifications not initiated by the customer; and • suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform. Any of these factors could delay delivery of our products. Our contracts often provide for liquidated damages in the case of late delivery. Unanticipated costs that we cannot pass on to our customers, for example the increases in steel prices or the payment of liquidated damages under fixed contracts, would negatively impact our profits. We have experienced rapid growth, which may be difficult to sustain and which has placed significant demands on our accounting systems and other operational, administrative and financial resources. Our annual revenue has grown in each of the last four years increasing from $69.4 million in 2004 to $235.9 million in 2007. Our rapid growth has caused, and if it continues will continue to cause, significant demands on our accounting systems and other operational, administrative and financial resources. For example, we are in the 16 Table of Contents process of upgrading our accounting and operational computer software systems. In addition, we will be expanding and otherwise improving our internal systems, including our other management information systems, customer relationship and support systems, and operating, administrative and financial systems and controls. We may also need to hire additional staff. This effort has required, and if it continues, will continue to require, us to make significant capital expenditures and incur significant expenses. These efforts may also divert the attention of management, sales, support and finance personnel from our core business operations, which may adversely affect our financial performance in future periods. Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system sufficient to address our growth and will require us to incur significant additional expenses and to commit additional senior management and operational resources. As a result, we face significant challenges: • in maintaining adequate accounting, financial and business controls; • implementing new or updated information, accounting and financial systems, and procedures; and • in training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants, make payments on our debt and limit our growth. As of March 1, 2008, the aggregate amount of our outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility with Fifth Third Bank (the “Bank Facility”) and subordinated debt was approximately $16.3 million, which includes an additional $15.0 million to finance the FKI acquisition. Our outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences for you, including the following: • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our Bank Facility and subordinated debt, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of the agreements governing such indebtedness, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under such agreements; • the covenants contained in our debt agreements limit our ability to borrow money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations; • the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; • we will need to use a portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities; • we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general; and • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our existing or future debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money to service our existing or future debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing or future debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity. We may not be able to refinance our existing or future debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our inability to deliver our backlog on time could affect our future sales and profitability, and our relationships with our customers. Our backlog has decreased from approximately $97.1 million at December 31, 2006 to approximately $85.5 million at December 31, 2007. This decrease does not include backlog attributable to the recently acquired FKI assets of approximately $12.0 million at December 31, 2007. Our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for our backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Our failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations may result in damage to existing customer relationships and result in the loss of future business. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance and cause adverse changes in the market price of our common stock. Since our financial performance is seasonal, current results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to the seasonality of our business and these fluctuations make it more difficult for us to predict accurately in a timely manner factors that may have a negative impact on our business. The fourth quarter of our fiscal year, which ends December 31, is typically our strongest quarter. For example, many of our customers attempt to complete major capital improvement projects before the end of the calendar year. In addition, many customers shut down over the Christmas holidays to perform maintenance services on their facilities. These factors create increased demand for our products and services during this period. Conversely, the first quarter of our fiscal year is typically our weakest quarter. This is caused to some extent by winter weather constraints on outside construction activity but also by the seasonality of capital improvement projects as discussed relating to the fourth quarter. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Our financial performance may vary significantly from period to period, making it difficult to estimate future revenue. Our annual revenues and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Our contracts generally stipulate customer specific delivery terms and may have contract cycles of a year or more, which subjects these contracts to many factors beyond our control. In addition, contracts that are significantly larger in size than our typical contracts tend to intensify their impact on our annual operating results. Furthermore, as a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed, an unanticipated decrease in our revenues, a delay or cancellation of orders in backlog, or a decrease in the demand for our products, may have a significant impact on our annual operating results. Therefore, our annual operating results may be subject to significant variations and our operating performance in one period may not be indicative of our future performance. We have a history of net losses, and may not be profitable in the future. Although we reported net income of $6.3 and $3.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively, we have incurred net losses for each prior fiscal year since 1999. We cannot 18 Table of Contents assure you that we will be profitable in the future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues and we may incur net losses from period to period. The impact of the foregoing may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which may result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. Percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenue may result in material adjustments that would adversely affect our operating results. We recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method on all fixed price contracts over $50,000. Under this method, estimated contract revenue is accrued based generally on the percentage that costs to date bear to total estimated costs. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Accordingly, contract revenue and total cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses and as change orders are approved, and adjustments based upon the percentage-of-completion are reflected in contract revenue in the period when these estimates are revised. These estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and our historical experience, and are only estimates. Variation of actual results from these assumptions or our historical experience could be material. To the extent that these adjustments result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of previously reported contract revenue, we would recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, which could be material. A significant portion of our accounts receivable are related to large contracts, which increases our exposure to credit risk. We closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers. Significant portions of our sales are to customers who place large orders for custom products and whose activities are related to the power and oil/gas industries. As a result, our exposure to credit risk is affected to some degree by conditions within these industries and governmental and/or political conditions. We frequently attempt to reduce our exposure to credit risk by requiring progress payments and letters of credit. However unanticipated events that affect our customers could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results. Changes in billing terms can increase our exposure to working capital and credit risk. Our products are generally sold under contracts that allow us to either bill upon the completion of certain agreed upon milestones, or upon actual shipment of the product. We attempt to negotiate progress-billing milestones on all large contracts to help us manage the working capital and credit risk associated with these large contracts. Consequently, shifts in the billing terms of the contracts in our backlog from period to period can increase our requirement for working capital and can increase our exposure to credit risk. Customers may cancel or delay projects. As a result our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenue. Customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control. Our orders normally contain cancellation provisions which permit us to recover our costs, and, for most contracts, a portion of our anticipated profit in the event a customer cancels an order. If a customer elects to cancel an order, we may not realize the full amount of revenues included in our backlog. If projects are delayed, the timing of our revenues could be affected and projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. Revenue recognition occurs over long periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. If we receive relatively large orders in any given quarter, fluctuations in the levels of our quarterly backlog can result because the backlog in that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. As a result, our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues. With rare exceptions, we are not issued contracts until a customer is ready to start work on a project. Thus, it is our experience that the only relation between the length of a project and the possibility that a project may be cancelled is simply the fact that there is more time involved. In a year long project there is more time for the customer to have some business downturn causing him to cancel than there is in a three-month project. 19 Table of Contents Our gross margins are affected by shifts in our product mix. Certain of our products have higher gross profit margins than others. Consequently, changes in the product mix of our sales from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported gross profit margins. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we experienced a decrease in gross margin as a percent of net sales due to a change in product mix and a large automotive contract with a lower gross margin. Certain of our products also have a much higher internally manufactured cost component. Therefore, changes from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported gross margins. In addition, contracts with a higher percentage of subcontracted work or equipment purchases may result in lower gross profit margins. If our goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, we may be required to recognize charges that would reduce our net income or increase our net loss. As of December 31, 2007, goodwill and intangibles represented approximately $18.3 million, or 19.1% of our total assets. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, are no longer amortized, but instead are subject to impairment evaluation based on related estimated fair values, with such testing to be done at least annually. While, to date, no impairment write-downs have been necessary, any write-down of goodwill or intangible assets resulting from future periodic evaluations would, as applicable, either decrease our net income or increase our net loss and those decreases or increases could be material. Risks Related to Our Operations and Industry We face significant competition in the markets we serve. The industries in which we compete are all highly competitive and highly fragmented. We compete against a number of local, regional and national contractors and manufacturers in each of our product or service lines, many of which have been in existence longer than us and some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, performance, speed of delivery, quality, customer support and single source responsibility. We believe new entrants that are large corporations may be able to compete with us on the basis of price and as a result may have a material adverse affect on the results of our operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that other companies will not develop new or enhanced products that are either more effective than ours or would render our products non-competitive or obsolete. Any failure by us to compete effectively in the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increasing costs for manufactured components, raw materials, transportation, health care and energy prices may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our products, including raw steel, steel-related components, filtration media, and equipment such as fans, motors, etc. Materials comprise the largest component of our costs, representing over 68% of the costs of our net sales in fiscal 2007. Further increases in the price of these items could further materially increase our operating costs and materially adversely affect our profit margins. Similarly, transportation and health care costs have risen steadily over the past few years and represent an increasingly important burden for us. Although we try to contain these costs wherever possible, and although we try to pass along increased costs in the form of price increases to our customers, we may be unsuccessful in doing so for competitive reasons, and even when successful, the timing of such price increases may lag significantly behind our incurrence of higher costs. Our business is affected by the health of the markets we serve. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on varying conditions in the markets that we serve, particularly the general industrial markets. Demand in these markets fluctuates in response to overall economic 20 Table of Contents conditions, although the replacement nature of our products helps mitigate the effects of these changes. Economic downturns in the markets we serve may result in reductions in sales and pricing of our products and services, which could reduce future earnings and cash flow. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could disrupt our operations or be adverse to our business. We are highly dependent on the experience of our management in the continuing development of our operations. The loss of the services of certain of these individuals would have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have employment and non-competition agreements with certain of our key employees, as a practical matter, those agreements will not assure the retention of our employees, and we may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in any employment or non-competition agreement. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to manage our development and future growth. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our failure to recruit additional key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may make future acquisitions, which involve numerous risks that could impact our business and results of operations. Our operating strategy involves horizontally expanding our scope of products and services through selective acquisitions and the formation of new business units that are then vertically integrated into our growing family of turnkey system providers. We have acquired, and intend to selectively acquire, other businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies that are complementary to our business. We may be unable to find or consummate future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms. We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies; • diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • unanticipated costs and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities; • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies; • our ability to properly establish and maintain effective internal controls over an acquired company; and • increasing demands on our operational and information technology systems. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies we purchase, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding their actual operating and financial condition. Until we actually assume operating control of these businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities. This is particularly true with respect to non-U.S. acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. Our Bank Facility contains certain covenants that limit, or which may have the effect of limiting, among other things acquisitions, capital expenditures, the sale of assets and the incurrence of additional indebtedness. 21 Table of Contents Our manufacturing operations are dependent on third-party suppliers. Although we are not dependent on any one supplier, we are dependent on the ability of our third-party suppliers to supply our raw materials, as well as certain specific component parts. We purchase all of our chemical grade fiberglass from one domestic supplier, which we believe is the only domestic supplier of such fiberglass, and certain specialty items from only two domestic suppliers. These items also can be purchased from foreign suppliers. Failure by our third-party suppliers to meet our requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that our third-party suppliers will dedicate sufficient resources to meet our scheduled delivery requirements or that our suppliers will have sufficient resources to satisfy our requirements during any period of sustained demand. Failure of manufacturers or suppliers to supply, or delays in supplying, our raw materials or certain components, or allocations in the supply of certain high demand raw components could materially adversely affect our operations and ability to meet our own delivery schedules on a timely and competitive basis. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31, 2007, as evidenced by the material weaknesses that existed in our internal controls. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not be effective in future periods, as a result of existing or newly identified material weaknesses in internal controls. Our management reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting at the end of 2007. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our management concluded that as of December 31, 2007, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that financial information we are required to disclose in our reports under the Exchange Act was recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately. See “Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” Although we have commenced plans to remediate the material weaknesses and will continue to execute plans to remediate the material weaknesses reported as of December 31, 2007, there can be no assurance as to when the remediation plans will be fully implemented, nor can there be any assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. We have additional work remaining to remediate our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. Until our remediation efforts are completed, we will continue to be at an increased risk that our financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected, and we will continue to incur significant expense and management burdens associated with the additional procedures required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. In addition, our report on internal controls over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 did not include an assessment of the internal controls of Effox Inc. or GMD Environmental Technologies, Inc. We are not required to include Effox or GMD Environmental Technologies, Inc., in our report on internal controls until our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. Unanticipated factors may hinder the effectiveness or delay the integration of our combined internal control systems post-acquisition. In addition, we acquired the assets of Fisher –Klosterman, Inc. in February 2008. We cannot be certain as to whether we will be able to establish an effective, unified system of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner, or at all. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls could adversely affect our business. Commencing with the fiscal year ended 2007, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 10-K, a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation of our 22 Table of Contents independent auditors. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and could become increasingly stringent in the future. We have undertaken actions to enhance our ability to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, but not limited to, the engagement of consultants, the documentation of existing controls and the implementation of new controls or modification of existing controls as deemed appropriate. In connection with management’s review of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2007, management concluded that our controls and procedures are not effective as of the end of such period, in ensuring that the information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely discussions regarding required disclosure. This conclusion was based on the existence of the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting pertaining to (i) segregation of duties, (ii) information technology applications and infrastructure, (iii) entity level controls and (iv) financial close and reporting process. We continue to devote substantial time and resources to the documentation and testing of our controls, and to planning for and implementation of remedial efforts in those instances where remediation is indicated. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running our day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 will continue to be significant. The material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with the Section 404 requirements, each of which could negatively impact our business, profitability and financial condition. There are inherent limitations in all internal control systems over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While we continue to take action to ensure compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be evaluated in relation to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 23 Table of Contents Our operations outside of the United States are subject to political, investment and local business risks. In 2007, approximately 9% of our total revenue was derived from products or services ultimately delivered or provided to end-users outside the United States. As part of our operating strategy, we intend to expand our international operations through internal growth and selected acquisitions. Operations outside of the United States, particularly in emerging markets, are subject to a variety of risks which are different from or additional to the risks we face within the United States. Among others, these risks include: • local political and social conditions, including potential hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries; • imposition of limitations on the remittance of dividends and payments by foreign subsidiaries; • adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations, including significant devaluations of currencies; • tax-related risks, including the imposition of taxes and the lack of beneficial treaties, that result in a higher effective tax rate for us; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign local systems; • domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and quotas or other trade barriers; • increased costs for transportation and shipping; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; • managing and obtaining support and distribution channels for overseas operations; • hiring and retaining qualified management personnel for our overseas operations; • imposition or increase of restrictions on investment; and • required compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations which may be materially different than those to which we are subject in the United States. The occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon the financial condition and results of operations. If we do not develop improved products and new products in a timely manner in response to industry demands, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. The air pollution control and filtration industry is characterized by ongoing technological developments and changing customer requirements. As a result, our success and continued growth depend, in part, on our ability in a timely manner to develop or acquire rights to, and successfully introduce into the marketplace, enhancements of existing products or new products that incorporate technological advances, meet customer requirements and respond to products developed by our competition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or acquiring such rights to products on a timely basis or that such products will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Our industry has recently experienced shortages in the availability of qualified personnel. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our operations require the services of employees having technical training and experience in our business. As a result, our operations depend on the continuing availability of such personnel. Shortages of qualified personnel are occurring in our industry. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors, or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience, our operations could be adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. 24 Table of Contents Our business can be significantly affected by changes in technology and regulatory standards. The air pollution control and filtration industry is characterized by changing technology, competitively imposed process standards and regulatory requirements, each of which influences the demand for our products and services. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industrial requirements may render certain of our filtration products and processes obsolete. Acceptance of new products and services may also be affected by the adoption of new government regulations requiring stricter standards. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products successfully on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive or that certain of our products or services will not become obsolete. We might be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could expose us to costly disputes. We hold various patents and licenses relating to certain of our products. We cannot assure you as to the breadth or degree of protection that existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, that our patents will be upheld, if challenged, or that competitors will not develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of any patent issued to us. Although we believe that our products do not and will not infringe patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible that our existing patent rights may not be valid or that infringement of existing or future patents or proprietary rights may occur. In the event our products infringe patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to modify the design of our products or obtain a license for certain technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all. Failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violations action which may be brought against us. Moreover, if our products infringe patents or proprietary rights of others, we could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which also could have a material adverse effect on our business. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations. As of February 29, 2008, 390 of our 683 employees are represented by international or independent labor unions under various union contracts that expire from April 2008 to June 2010. It is possible that our workforce will become more unionized in the future. Although we consider our employee relations to generally be good, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at one or more of our facilities in the future and we may be affected by other labor disputes. A work stoppage at one or more of our facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. Unionization activities could also increase our costs, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Additionally, a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. Stoppages by employees of our customers also could result in reduced demand for our products. We may incur material costs as a result of product liability claims, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. Despite our quality assurance measures, defects may occur in our products and we may be exposed to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. In addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. 25 Table of Contents An unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. Liability to customers under warranties may adversely affect our reputation, our ability to obtain future business and our earnings. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the products we manufacture. Failure of our products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have in the past received warranty claims, and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, our ability to obtain future business and our earnings could be adversely affected. We may become liable for the obligations of our subcontractors. We act as prime contractor on a majority of the construction projects we undertake. In our capacity as prime contractor and when acting as a subcontractor, we perform most of the work on our projects with our own resources and typically subcontract only such specialized activities as electrical work, concrete work, insulation, conveyors, controls, etc. In our industry, the prime contractor is normally responsible for the performance of the entire contract, including subcontract work. Thus, when acting as a prime contractor, we are subject to the risk associated with the failure of one or more subcontractors to perform as anticipated. Our business is subject to risks of terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters. Terrorist acts, acts of war, or national disasters may disrupt our operations and information and distribution systems, as well as those of our customers. These types of acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, thus forcing our customers to reduce their capital spending, or cancel or delay already planned construction projects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our executive officers and directors are able to exercise significant influence over CECO, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders. As of March 10, 2008, our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 24% of our outstanding common stock, assuming the exercise of currently exercisable warrants and options held by them. The interests of management with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Management’s continued concentrated ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage, in related party transactions and such transactions present possible conflicts of interest. We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage, in several related party transactions, including management consulting services, and office space and other expenses related to our Toronto office. All such transactions were approved by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, which believed that the 26 Table of Contents transactions were in our best interest. Transactions of this nature present the possibility of a conflict of interest whereby the other party may advance its economic or business interests or objectives that may conflict with or be contrary to our best interests. Any such conflict could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. The limited liquidity for our common stock could affect your ability to sell your shares at a satisfactory price. Our common stock is relatively illiquid. As of March 10, 2008, we had 14,900,452 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the 60 calendar days ended February 28, 2008 was approximately 91,360 shares. A more active public market for our common stock, however, may not develop, which would continue to adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. Moreover, a thin trading market for our stock causes the market price for our common stock to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, you may be unable to liquidate your investment in us at a satisfactory price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility. During the twelve-month period ended February 28, 2008, the sale prices of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low of $7.77 to a high of $18.14 per share. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological advances by us or our competitors; • current events affecting the political and economic environment in the United States; • conditions or trends in our industry, including demand for our products and services, technological advances and governmental regulations; • litigation involving or affecting us; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; and • additions or departures of our key personnel. The realization of any of these risks and other factors beyond our control could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. The number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our stock. We have reserved 2.0 million shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (“2007 Plan”), which may include option grants, stock grants and restricted stock grants. As of December 31, 2007, 140,208 shares of stock or restricted stock have been issued under the 2007 Plan. We had outstanding options to purchase 330,105 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2007 under our 1997 Stock Option Plan. The shares under both plans are registered for resale on currently effective registration statements. We also have additional outstanding options and warrants to purchase 750,500 shares, which were not issued under either of the plans, as of December 31, 2007. Green Diamond, an affiliate of Phillip DeZwirek and Jason DeZwirek, owns warrants to purchase 250,000 shares of common stock that have piggy-back rights granting it the right to require that we register such shares in the event we file any registration statements in the future. 27 Table of Contents We may issue additional restricted securities or register additional shares of common stock under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) in the future. The issuance of a significant number of shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options or warrants, or the availability for sale, or resale, of a substantial number of the shares of common stock under registration statements, under Rule 144 or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Issuance of shares under our stock incentive plan or in connection with financing transactions will dilute current stockholders. Pursuant to our stock incentive plan, our management is authorized to grant stock awards to our employees, directors and consultants. You will incur dilution upon exercise of any outstanding stock awards. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. Our ability to issue preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 10,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series on terms that may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors. Accordingly, we may issue shares of any series of preferred stock that would rank senior to the common stock as to voting or dividend rights or rights upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Certain provisions in our charter documents have anti-takeover effects. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. Such provisions, including those limiting who may call special stockholders’ meetings, together with the possible issuance of our preferred stock without stockholder approval, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. Because we have no plans to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support our operations and growth. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Additionally, our Bank Facility restricts the payment of dividends. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 