Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other companies in our industry, our consolidated financial results will be impacted by weather, the economy of our service territory, fuel prices, the performance of our customers and the decisions of regulatory agencies. Our common stock price and creditworthiness will be affected by national and international macroeconomic trends, general market conditions and the expectations of the investment community, all of which are largely beyond our control. In addition, the following statements highlight risk factors that may affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Our Costs Could Increase or We Could Experience Reduced Revenues if There are Problems at the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station A significant percentage of our generating capacity, off-system sales margins, assets and operating expenses is attributable to Palo Verde. Our 15.8% interest in each of the three Palo Verde units total approximately 600 MW of generating capacity. Palo Verde represents approximately 40% of our available net generating capacity and represented approximately 46% of our available energy for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. Palo Verde comprises 42% of our total net plant-in-service and Palo Verde expenses comprise a significant portion of operation and maintenance expenses. We face the risk of additional or unanticipated costs at Palo Verde resulting from (i) increases in operation and maintenance expenses; (ii) the replacement of steam generators in Palo Verde Unit 3; (iii) the replacement of reactor vessel heads at the Palo Verde units; (iv) an extended outage of any of the Palo Verde units; (v) increases in estimates of decommissioning costs; (vi) the storage of radioactive waste, including spent nuclear fuel; (vii) prolonged reductions in generating output; (viii) insolvency of other Palo Verde Participants; and (ix) compliance with the various requirements and regulations governing commercial nuclear generating stations. At the same time, our retail base rates in Texas are effectively capped through June 2010. As a result, we cannot raise our base rates in Texas in the event of increases in non-fuel costs or loss of revenue unless our return on equity falls below the bottom of a market-based defined range in which the bottom of the range is approximately 8%. Additionally, should retail competition occur, there may be competitive pressure on our rates which could reduce profitability. We cannot assure that revenues will be sufficient to recover any increased costs, including any increased costs in connection with Palo Verde or other operations, whether as a result of inflation, changes in tax laws or regulatory requirements, or other causes. Typically, the Company realizes between 40% and 50% of its off-system sales margins during the first quarter of each calendar year when the Company’s native load is lower than at other times of the years, allowing for the sale in the wholesale market of relatively larger amounts of off-system energy generated from nuclear fuel resources. Palo Verde’s availability is an important factor in realizing these off-system sales margins. The Company estimates that the reduced output and upcoming outages at Palo Verde Unit 1, together with lower than originally forecast wholesale energy prices, will result in reduced off-system sales margins of approximately $12 to $18 million for the period January through July 2006. The Company cautions that results would differ from its estimates to the extent that actual market prices, Palo Verde Unit 1 operations and other factors vary from its assumptions. The adverse financial impact on the Company from continued reduced output and outages at Palo Verde Unit 1 could increase and would include foregone off-system margins, higher capital and/or operating costs and increased purchased power and other costs. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our City Rate Agreement with El Paso Could Terminate Early Under our City Rate Agreement, we agreed to engage the services of an independent consultant to review the reasonableness of certain operating expenses. If the consultant finds such expenses to be unreasonable, the parties will seek to negotiate an appropriate remedy. If the parties are unable to agree on a remedy, the New Texas Freeze Period would expire on June 30, 2006. If that were to occur, we would be subject to traditional rate regulation by the City with appellate review by the Texas Commission beginning July 1, 2006. In such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to maintain our Texas rates thereafter. In addition, the early termination of the New Texas Freeze Period or denial by the Texas Commission to approve the fuel provision of the City Rate Agreement may mean that we would not be entitled to retain 75% of our margins from off-system sales retroactive to July 1, 2005. If litigated rate regulation leads to lower rates or reduced off-system sales margin retention, there would be a potential material negative impact on our revenues, earnings, cash flows and financial position. We May Not Be Able to Pass Through All of Our Fuel Expenses to Customers In general, by law, we are entitled to pass through our prudently incurred fuel and purchased power expenses to our customers in Texas and New Mexico. Nevertheless, we agreed in 2004 to a fixed fuel factor for ten percent of the kilowatt-hours of our retail customers in New Mexico pursuant to a base rate freeze that expires in 2007. This agreement also allows us to price a portion of power from Palo Verde Unit 3 at market prices which tend to track gas prices. To the extent that this indirect “hedge” does not perfectly track our costs, we are subject to the risk of increased costs of fuel that would not be recoverable. The portion of fuel expense that is not fixed is subject to reconciliation by the Texas Commission and the NMPRC. Prior to the completion of a reconciliation, we record fuel transactions such that fuel revenues equal fuel expense except for the portion fixed in New Mexico. In the event that a disallowance occurs during a reconciliation proceeding, the amounts recorded for fuel and purchased power expenses could differ from the amounts we are allowed to collect from our customers and we would incur a loss to the extent of the disallowance. In New Mexico, the fuel adjustment clause allows us to reflect current fuel cost in the fuel clause and to recover under-recoveries and refund over-recoveries with a two month lag. In Texas, fuel costs are recovered through a fixed fuel factor that may be adjusted two times per year. If we materially under-recover fuel costs, we may seek a surcharge to recover those costs at the time of the next fuel factor filing. During periods of significant increases in natural gas prices such as occurred in 2004 and 2005, the Company realizes a lag in the ability to reflect increases in fuel costs in its fuel recovery mechanisms. As a result, the cash flow is impacted due to the lag in payment of fuel costs and collection of fuel costs from customers. At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the Company had deferred fuel balances of $92 million and $19 million, respectively. A surcharge to collect fuel under-recoveries of $53 million over a 24 month period was placed into effect in Texas in October 2005. A second surcharge was placed into effect on an interim basis in Texas in February 2006 to collect $34 million over a twelve month period. To the extent the fuel recovery processes in Texas and New Mexico do not provide for the timely recovery of fuel costs, the Company could experience a material negative impact on its cash flow. To insure that we have adequate liquidity we have recently begun the process of replacing our $100 million revolving credit facility with a new $150 million revolving credit facility. The new revolving credit facility will have similar terms to the existing revolving credit facility and will provide up to $70 million for nuclear fuel purchases with any amounts not borrowed for nuclear fuel purchases 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements available for use for working capital. The Company expects, but has no assurance, that the new revolving credit facility will be in place by the second quarter of 2006. Equipment Failures and Other External Factors Can Adversely Affect Our Results The generation and transmission of electricity require the use of expensive and complex equipment. While we have a maintenance program in place, generating plants are subject to unplanned outages because of equipment failure. We are particularly vulnerable to this due to the advanced age of several of our gas-fired generating units in or near El Paso. In addition, we are seeking to extend the lives of these plants. In the event of unplanned outages, we must acquire power from others at unpredictable costs in order to supply our customers and comply with our contractual agreements. This can materially increase our costs and prevent us from selling excess power at wholesale, thus reducing our profits. In addition, decisions or mistakes by other utilities may adversely affect our ability to use transmission lines to deliver or import power, thus subjecting us to unexpected expenses or to the cost and uncertainty of public policy initiatives. We are particularly vulnerable to this because a significant portion of our available energy (at Palo Verde and Four Corners) is located hundreds of miles from El Paso and Las Cruces and must be delivered to our customers over long distance transmission lines. These factors, as well as weather, interest rates, economic conditions, fuel prices and price volatility, are largely beyond our control, but may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, cash flows and financial position. Competition and Deregulation Could Result in a Loss of Customers and Increased Costs As a result of changes in federal law, our wholesale and large retail customers already have, in varying degrees, alternate sources of economical power, including co-generation of electric power. Texas has recently passed industry deregulation legislation requiring us to separate our transmission and distribution functions, which would remain regulated, from our power generation and energy services businesses, which would operate in a competitive market, in the future. On October 13, 2004, the Texas Commission approved a rule delaying retail competition in our Texas service territory. There is substantial uncertainty about both the regulatory framework and market conditions that would exist if and when retail competition is implemented in our Texas service territory, and we may incur substantial preparatory, restructuring and other costs that may not ultimately be recoverable. There can be no assurance that deregulation would not adversely affect our future operations, cash flows and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have unresolved SEC staff comments to disclose. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company as of February 2, 2006, were as follows: Name Age Current Position and Business Experience Gary R. Hedrick 51 Chief Executive Officer, President and Director since November 2001; Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer from August 2000 to November 2001. J. Frank Bates 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since May 2005; Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer from November 2001 to May 2005; Vice President – Transmission and Distribution from August 1996 to November 2001. Scott D. Wilson 52 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Chief Administrative Officer since February 2006; Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from May 2005 to February 2006; Vice President – Corporate Planning and Controller from February 2005 to May 2005; Controller from September 2003 to February 2005; Owner of Wilson Consulting Group from June 1992 to September 2003. Steven P. Busser 37 Vice President – Regulatory Affairs and Treasurer since February 2005; Treasurer from February 2003 to February 2005; Assistant Chief Financial Officer from June 2002 to February 2003; Vice President – International Controller for Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. from August 2001 to June 2002; Vice President – International Controller for National Processing Company, Inc. from June 2000 to August 2001. David G. Carpenter 50 Vice President – Corporate Planning and Controller since August 2005; Director – Texas Regulatory Services for American Electric Power Services Corporation from June 2000 to August 2005 with responsibility for all regulatory activities in Texas for the three American Electric Power Co., Inc. electric utility subsidiaries in Texas. Fernando J. Gireud 48 Vice President – Safety, Environmental, Power Marketing and International Affairs since February 2006; Vice President – Power Marketing and International Business from February 2003 to February 2006; Vice President – International Business from July 2002 to February 2003; Director – International Business Affairs from February 2002 to July 2002; Director – International Business Affairs – MiraSol from November 1999 to February 2002. Helen Knopp 63 Vice President – Customer and Public Affairs since April 1999. Kerry B. Lore 46 Vice President – Administration since May 2003; Controller from October 2000 to May 2003. Robert C. McNiel 59 Vice President – New Mexico Affairs since December 1997. Hector R. Puente 49 Vice President – Distribution since February 2006; Vice President – Power Generation from April 2001 to February 2006; Manager – Substations and Relaying from August 1996 to April 2001. Andres Ramirez 45 Vice President – Power Generation since February 2006; Vice President – Safety, Environmental and Resource Planning from July 2005 to February 2006; Executive Director – Operations for Sempra Energy Texas Service from August 2004 to July 2005; Senior Vice President – Power Production for Austin Energy from 2001 to 2004. Gary Sanders 47 General Counsel since February 2006; Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from July 2004 to February 2006; Assistant General Counsel from January 2003 to July 2004; Shareholder in law firm of Gordon & Mott PC from April 1994 to December 2002. Guillermo Silva, Jr. 52 Corporate Secretary since February 2006; Vice President – Information Services from February 2003 to February 2006; Corporate Secretary from January 1994 to February 2003. John A. Whitacre 56 Vice President – Transmission since February 2006; Vice President – Transmission and Distribution from July 2002 to February 2006; Assistant Vice President – System Operations from August 1989 to July 2002. The executive officers of the Company are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 