Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other companies in our industry, our consolidated financial results will be impacted by weather, the economy of our service territory, market prices for power, fuel prices, and the decisions of regulatory agencies. Our common stock price and creditworthiness will be affected by local, regional and national macroeconomic trends, general market conditions and the expectations of the investment community, all of which are largely beyond our control. In addition, the following statements highlight risk factors that may affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Our Revenues and Profitability Depend upon Regulated Rates Our retail rates are subject to regulation by incorporated municipalities in Texas, the Texas Commission, the NMPRC and the FERC. The Texas Rate Agreements, which established our current retail base rates in Texas, expire on June 30, 2010. It is anticipated that we will need to file a general base rate case in Texas in late 2009 or early 2010, seeking a rate increase after the expiration of the Texas Rate Agreements. In addition, the 2007 New Mexico Stipulation, which established our current retail base rates in New Mexico, requires us to file a general base case in New Mexico no later than May 29, 2009. Our profitability depends on our ability to recover the costs, including a reasonable return on invested capital, of providing electric service to our customers through base rates approved by our regulators. These rates are generally established based on an analysis of the expenses we incur in an historical test year, and as a result, the rates ultimately approved by our regulators may or may not match our expenses at any given time. While rate regulation is based on the assumption that we will have a reasonable opportunity to recover our costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on our invested capital, there can be no assurance that our upcoming New Mexico rate case in 2009 or the anticipated Texas rate case in late 2009 or early 2010 will result in base rates that will allow us fully to recover our costs including a reasonable return on invested capital. There can be no assurance that our regulators will determine that all of our costs are reasonable and have been prudently incurred. It is also likely that third parties will intervene in our rate cases and challenge whether our costs are reasonable and necessary. If all of our costs are not recovered through the retail base rates ultimately approved by our regulators, our profitability and cash flow could be adversely affected which, over time, could adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations. We May Not Be Able To Recover All Costs of New Generation We have obtained from the Texas Commission and the NMPRC CCNs to construct a new generating unit (Newman Unit 5) in El Paso to meet our expected customer demand for electricity. We have provided the estimated cost of constructing Newman Unit 5 to the Texas Commission and NMPRC. We have risks associated with completing the construction of Newman Unit 5 on time and within projected costs. We have issued new debt to help fund the construction of Newman Unit 5; however, we have risks associated with obtaining additional financing for Newman Unit 5 at reasonable rates as we expect to issue additional debt to finance the completion of the plant. 23 Table of Contents The cost of financing and constructing Newman Unit 5 will be reviewed in future rate cases in both Texas and New Mexico. To the extent that the Texas Commission or NMPRC determines that the costs of construction are not reasonable because of cost overruns, delays or other reasons, we may not be allowed to recover these costs from customers in base rates. In addition, if the unit is not completed on time, we may be required to purchase power or operate less efficient generating units to meet customer requirements. Any replacement purchased power or fuel costs will be subject to regulatory review by the Texas Commission and NMPRC. We face financial risks to the extent that recovery is not allowed for any replacement fuel costs resulting from delays in the completion of Newman Unit 5. Turmoil in the Credit Markets and Economic Downturn The global credit and equity markets are in a state of turmoil, and the overall economy is in a downward trend. These events could have a number of effects on our operations and our capital programs. For example, the tight credit and capital markets may make it difficult and more expensive to raise capital to fund our operations and capital programs. If we are unable to access the credit markets, we could be required to defer or eliminate important capital projects in the future. Uncertainties in the credit markets have resulted, and may continue to result, in higher yields and resulting interest expense for approximately $100.6 million of our PCBs for which interest rates are reset weekly and have prevented us from refinancing these securities to date. As a result it will be more difficult and more expensive to refund and reissue such PCBs at fixed rates. In addition, declines in the stock market have reduced and may further reduce the value of our financial assets and decommissioning trust investments and negatively impact our future earnings and cash flow. Such market declines may also increase our funding obligations for our pension plans, other post-retirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trusts. The turmoil in the credit markets may result in changes in the corporate interest rates which we use as the discount rate to determine our pension and other post-retirement liabilities which, in turn, may have an impact on our funding obligations for such plans and trusts. Further, the downturn in the economy may result in reduced customer demand, both in the retail and wholesale markets, and increases in customer delinquencies and write-offs. We experienced a significant decline in electric usage by our large industrial customers in the fourth quarter of 2008. We expect this decline in large industrial customer usage to continue and could see similar impacts on usage of other customers resulting in a decrease in earnings in 2009. The credit markets and overall economy may also adversely impact the financial health of our suppliers. If that were to occur, our access to and prices for inventory, supplies and capital equipment could be adversely affected. Our power trading counterparties could also be adversely impacted by the market and economic conditions which could result in reduced wholesale power sales or increased counterparty credit risk. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of possible effects, and we may be adversely impacted in other ways. Our Costs Could Increase or We Could Experience Reduced Revenues if There are Problems at the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station A significant percentage of our generating capacity, off-system sales margins, assets and operating expenses is attributable to Palo Verde. Our 15.8% interest in each of the three Palo Verde units totals approximately 633 MW of generating capacity. Palo Verde represents approximately 42% of our available net generating capacity and represented approximately 42% of our available energy for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. Palo Verde comprises approximately 40% of our total net 24 Table of Contents plant-in-service and Palo Verde expenses comprise a significant portion of operation and maintenance expenses. APS is the operating agent for Palo Verde, and we have limited ability under the ANPP Participation Agreement to influence operations and costs at Palo Verde. Palo Verde operated at a capacity factor of 83.1% and 77.6% in the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The NRC has placed Palo Verde Unit 3 in the “multiple repetitive degraded cornerstone” column of its action matrix which results in an enhanced NRC inspection regimen. We face the risk of additional or unanticipated costs at Palo Verde resulting from (i) increases in operation and maintenance expenses, including additional costs relating to the enhanced NRC oversight; (ii) increases in the cost of uranium; (iii) the replacement of reactor vessel heads at the Palo Verde units; (iv) an extended outage of any of the Palo Verde units; (v) increases in estimates of decommissioning costs or decrease in the fair value of decommissioning trust fund investments; (vi) the storage of radioactive waste, including spent nuclear fuel; (vii) prolonged reductions in generating output; (viii) insolvency of other Palo Verde Participants; and (ix) compliance with the various requirements and regulations governing commercial nuclear generating stations. Our ability to increase retail base rates in Texas is limited through June 2010. We cannot seek approval to increase our base rates in Texas in the event of increases in non-fuel costs or loss of revenue unless our return on equity falls below the bottom of a defined range which currently is approximately 9.2%. Our rates in New Mexico will be fixed until after the conclusion of the May 2009 rate filing. We cannot assure that revenues will be sufficient to recover any increased costs, including any increased costs in connection with Palo Verde or other operations, whether as a result of inflation, changes in tax laws or regulatory requirements, or other causes. We May Not Be Able to Recover All of Our Fuel Expenses from Customers In general, by law, we are entitled to recover our prudently incurred fuel and purchased power expenses from our customers in Texas and New Mexico. The 2007 New Mexico Stipulation provides for energy from the deregulated Palo Verde Unit 3 to be recovered through fuel and purchased power costs based upon the contract cost of capacity and fuel for power purchased under the existing SPS purchased power contract. The 2007 New Mexico Stipulation requires the Company to file its FPPCAC according to NMPRC rules, at which time any party may propose to change the price of capacity and related energy from Palo Verde Unit 3 after the SPS purchased power contract is terminated on September 30, 2009. The fuel expense in New Mexico and Texas is subject to reconciliation by the Texas Commission and the NMPRC. Prior to the completion of a reconciliation, we record fuel and purchased power costs such that fuel revenues equal fuel and purchased power expense including the repriced energy costs for Palo Verde Unit 3 in New Mexico. In the event that a disallowance occurs during a reconciliation proceeding, the amounts recorded for fuel and purchased power expenses could differ from the amounts we are allowed to collect from our customers, and we would incur a loss to the extent of the disallowance. In New Mexico, the FPPCAC allows us to reflect current fuel and purchased power expenses in the FPPCAC and to adjust for under-recoveries and over-recoveries with a two-month lag. In Texas, fuel costs are recovered through a fixed fuel factor that may be adjusted three times per year. If we materially under-recover fuel costs, we may seek a surcharge to recover those costs at any time the balance exceeds a threshold material amount and is expected to continue to be materially under-recovered. During periods of significant increases in natural gas prices such as occurred in the 25 Table of Contents first eight months of 2008, the Company realizes a lag in the ability to reflect increases in fuel costs in its fuel recovery mechanisms. As a result, cash flow is impacted due to the lag in payment of fuel costs and collection of fuel costs from customers. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the Company had deferred fuel balances of $46.9 million and $27.7 million, respectively. To the extent the fuel and purchased power recovery processes in Texas and New Mexico do not provide for the timely recovery of such costs, we could experience a material negative impact on our cash flow. Equipment Failures and Other External Factors Can Adversely Affect Our Results The generation and transmission of electricity require the use of expensive and complex equipment. While we have a maintenance program in place, generating plants are subject to unplanned outages because of equipment failure. We are particularly vulnerable to this due to the advanced age of several of our gas-fired generating units in or near El Paso. In addition, we are seeking to extend the lives of these plants. In the event of unplanned outages, we must acquire power from others at unpredictable costs in order to supply our customers and comply with our contractual agreements. This can materially increase our costs and prevent us from selling excess power at wholesale, thus reducing our profits. In addition, actions of other utilities may adversely affect our ability to use transmission lines to deliver or import power, thus subjecting us to unexpected expenses or to the cost and uncertainty of public policy initiatives. We are particularly vulnerable to this because a significant portion of our available energy (at Palo Verde and Four Corners) is located hundreds of miles from El Paso and Las Cruces and must be delivered to our customers over long distance transmission lines. In addition, Palo Verde’s availability is an important factor in realizing off-system sales margins. These factors, as well as weather, interest rates, economic conditions, fuel prices and price volatility, are largely beyond our control, but may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, cash flows and financial position. Competition and Deregulation Could Result in a Loss of Customers and Increased Costs As a result of changes in federal law, our wholesale and large retail customers already have, in varying degrees, alternative sources of power, including co-generation of electric power. Deregulation legislation is in effect in Texas requiring us to separate our transmission and distribution functions, which would remain regulated, from our power generation and energy services businesses, which would operate in a competitive market, in the future. In 2004, the Texas Commission approved a rule delaying retail competition in our Texas service territory. This rule identified various milestones that we must reach before retail competition can begin. The first milestone calls for the development, approval by the FERC, and commencement of independent operation of an RTO in the area that includes our service territory. This and other milestones are not likely to be achieved for a number of years, if they are achieved at all. There is substantial uncertainty about both the regulatory framework and market conditions that would exist if and when retail competition is implemented in our Texas service territory, and we may incur substantial preparatory, restructuring and other costs that may not ultimately be recoverable. There can be no assurance that deregulation would not adversely affect our future operations, cash flows and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company as of February 15, 2009, were as follows: Name Age Current Position and Business Experience David W. Stevens 49 Chief Executive Officer since November 2008; Principal of Professional Consulting Services, LLC from December 2007 to November 2008; President, Chief Executive Officer and Board Member for Cascade Natural Gas Corporation from April 2005 to July 2007; President and Chief Operating Officer for Panhandle Energy from July 2003 to April 2005. J. Frank Bates 58 President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2008; Interim President and Chief Executive Officer from February 2008 to November 2008; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from May 2005 to February 2008; Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer from November 2001 to May 2005. Scott D. Wilson 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer since February 2006; Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from May 2005 to February 2006; Vice President – Corporate Planning and Controller from February 2005 to May 2005; Controller from September 2003 to February 2005. Gary D. Sanders 50 Senior Vice President and General Counsel since July 2008; General Counsel from February 2006 to July 2008; Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from July 2004 to February 2006; Assistant General Counsel from January 2003 to July 2004. Steve Buraczyk 41 Vice President – Power Marketing and Fuels since July 2008; Director of Power Marketing and Fuels from August 2006 to August 2008; Manager of Power Marketing from August 2004 to August 2006; Supervisor of Resource Management from February 2002 to August 2004. Steven P. Busser 40 Vice President – Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer since May 2006; Vice President – Regulatory Affairs and Treasurer from February 2005 to April 2006; Treasurer from February 2003 to February 2005. David G. Carpenter 53 Vice President – Regulatory Services and Controller since September 2008; Vice President – Corporate Planning and Controller from August 2005 to September 2008; Director – Texas Regulatory Services for American Electric Power Services Corporation from June 2000 to August 2005. Robert C. Doyle 49 Vice President – New Mexico Affairs since February 2007; Director – New Mexico Affairs from January 2007 to February 2007; Manager – Corporate Projects Office from August 2004 to January 2007; Project Manager – Corporate Transition to Competition from January 2004 to August 2004. Richard G. Gonzalez 52 Vice President – Human Resources since November 2007; Director of Human Resources for Petro Stopping Centers, L.P., from March 2004 to November 2007; Director of Human Resources for Electrolux from March 1996 to March 2004. Helen Knopp 66 Vice President – Public Affairs since May 2006; Vice President – Customer and Public Affairs from April 1999 to April 2006. Kerry B. Lore 49 Vice President – Customer Care since December 2008; Vice President – Administration from May 2003 to December 2008. Rocky R. Miracle 55 Vice President – Corporate Planning since September 2008; Director of Business Operations Support – Texas Operations for American Electric Power from August 2004 to August 2008; Director of Commercial Operations for American Electric Power from June 2002 to July 2004; Director of Mergers and Acquisitions for American Electric Power from June 2000 to May 2002. Hector R. Puente 52 Vice President – Transmission and Distribution since May 2006; Vice President – Distribution from February 2006 to April 2006; Vice President – Power Generation from April 2001 to February 2006. Andres Ramirez 48 Vice President – Power Generation since February 2006; Vice President – Safety, Environmental and Resource Planning from July 2005 to February 2006; Executive Director – Operations for Sempra Energy Texas Service from August 2004 to July 2005; Senior Vice President – Power Production for Austin Energy from 2001 to 2004. Guillermo Silva, Jr. 55 Corporate Secretary since February 2006; Vice President – Information Services from February 2003 to February 2006. John A. Whitacre 59 Vice President – System Operations and Planning since May 2006; Vice President – Transmission from February 2006 to April 2006; Vice President – Transmission and Distribution from July 2002 to February 2006. The executive officers of the Company are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. 27 Table of Contents 