Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other companies in our industry, our consolidated financial results will be impacted by weather, the economy of our service territory, market prices for power, fuel prices, and the decisions of regulatory agencies. Our common stock price and creditworthiness will be affected by local, regional and national macroeconomic trends, general market conditions and the expectations of the investment community, all of which are largely beyond our control. In addition, the following statements highlight risk factors that may affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Our Revenues and Profitability Depend upon Regulated Rates Our retail rates are subject to regulation by incorporated municipalities in Texas, the PUCT, the NMPRC and the FERC. The Texas Rate Agreements, which established our current retail base rates in Texas, expire on June 30, 2010. We filed a general base rate case in Texas in December 2009 seeking a rate increase. In addition, the recently settled NMPRC Case No. 09-00171-UT established rates that became effective January 2010. It is anticipated, however, that we will need to file another general base rate case in New Mexico in 2010 seeking an additional rate increase to incorporate the construction costs of Phase 2 of Newman Unit 5 into rate base. Our profitability depends on our ability to recover the costs, including a reasonable return on invested capital, of providing electric service to our customers through base rates approved by our regulators. These rates are generally established based on an analysis of the expenses we incur in an historical test year, and as a result, the rates ultimately approved by our regulators may or may not match our expenses at any given time. Rates in New Mexico may be established using projected costs and investment for a future test year period in certain instances. While rate regulation is based on the assumption that we will have a reasonable opportunity to recover our costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on our invested capital, there can be no assurance that our current Texas rate case or our anticipated New Mexico rate case in 2010 will result in base rates that will allow us fully to recover our costs including a reasonable return on invested capital. There can be no assurance that our regulators will determine that all of our costs are reasonable and have been prudently incurred. It is also likely that third parties will intervene in our rate cases and challenge whether our costs are reasonable and necessary. If all of our costs are not recovered through the retail base rates ultimately approved by our regulators, our profitability and cash flow could be adversely affected which, over time, could adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations. We May Not Be Able To Recover All Costs of New Generation We have completed Phase 1, consisting of two 70 MW gas turbine generators, in the construction of Newman Unit 5 in El Paso to meet our expected customer demand for electricity. We have risks associated with completing the construction of Newman Unit 5 on time and within projected costs. We have issued new debt to help fund the construction of Newman Unit 5; however, we have risks associated with obtaining additional financing for Newman Unit 5 at reasonable rates as we expect to issue additional debt to finance the completion of the plant and other capital expenditures. 26 Table of Contents The cost of financing and constructing Newman Unit 5 will be reviewed in future rate cases in both Texas and New Mexico. To the extent that the PUCT or NMPRC determines that the costs of construction are not reasonable because of cost overruns, delays or other reasons, we may not be allowed to recover these costs from customers in base rates. In addition, if Newman Unit 5 is not completed on time, we may be required to purchase power or operate less efficient generating units to meet customer requirements. Any replacement purchased power or fuel costs will be subject to regulatory review by the PUCT and NMPRC. We face financial risks to the extent that recovery is not allowed for any replacement fuel costs resulting from delays in the completion of Newman Unit 5. Turmoil in the Credit Markets and Economic Downturn The global credit and equity markets and the overall economy have been through a state of turmoil and have not fully recovered. These events could have a number of effects on our operations and our capital programs. For example, tight credit and capital markets could make it difficult and more expensive to raise capital to fund our operations and capital programs. If we are unable to access the credit markets, we could be required to defer or eliminate important capital projects in the future. In addition, declines in the stock market have reduced and may further reduce the value of our financial assets and decommissioning trust investments and negatively impact our future earnings and cash flow. Such market declines may also increase our funding obligations for our pension plans, other post-retirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trusts. Changes in the corporate interest rates which we use as the discount rate to determine our pension and other post-retirement liabilities may have an impact on our funding obligations for such plans and trusts. Further, the weak economy may result in reduced customer demand, both in the retail and wholesale markets, and increases in customer delinquencies and write-offs. We experienced a significant decline in electric usage by our large industrial customers in 2009. This decline in large industrial customer usage could continue and we could see similar impacts on usage of other customers resulting in a decrease in earnings in 2010. The credit markets and overall economy may also adversely impact the financial health of our suppliers. If that were to occur, our access to and prices for inventory, supplies and capital equipment could be adversely affected. Our power trading counterparties could also be adversely impacted by the market and economic conditions which could result in reduced wholesale power sales or increased counterparty credit risk. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of possible effects, and we may be adversely impacted in other ways. Our Costs Could Increase or We Could Experience Reduced Revenues if There are Problems at the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station A significant percentage of our generating capacity, off-system sales margins, assets and operating expenses is attributable to Palo Verde. Our 15.8% interest in each of the three Palo Verde units totals approximately 633 MW of generating capacity. Palo Verde represents approximately 39% of our available net generating capacity and provided approximately 45% of our energy requirements for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. Palo Verde comprises approximately 37% of our total net plant-in-service and Palo Verde expenses comprise a significant portion of operation and maintenance expenses. APS is the operating agent for Palo Verde, and we have limited ability under the ANPP Participation Agreement to influence operations and costs at Palo Verde. Palo Verde operated at a capacity factor of 88.9% and 84.4% in the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to increase retail base rates in Texas and New Mexico is limited and we cannot assure that revenues will be sufficient to recover any increased costs, including any increased costs in connection with Palo Verde or other operations, whether as a result of inflation, changes in tax laws or regulatory requirements, or other causes. We May Not Be Able to Recover All of Our Fuel Expenses from Customers In general, by law, we are entitled to recover our prudently incurred fuel and purchased power expenses from our customers in Texas and New Mexico. NMPRC Case No. 09-00171-UT provides for energy delivered to New Mexico customers from the deregulated Palo Verde Unit 3 to be recovered through fuel and purchased power costs based upon an existing purchased power contract with Credit Suisse Energy, LLC. Fuel and purchased power expenses in New Mexico and Texas are subject to reconciliation by the PUCT and the NMPRC. Prior to the completion of a reconciliation, we record fuel and purchased power costs such that fuel revenues equal recoverable fuel and purchased power expense including the repriced energy costs for Palo Verde Unit 3 in New Mexico. In the event that a disallowance occurs during a reconciliation proceeding, the amounts recorded for fuel and purchased power expenses could differ from the amounts we are allowed to collect from our customers, and we would incur a loss to the extent of the disallowance. In New Mexico, the FPPCAC allows us to reflect current fuel and purchased power expenses in the FPPCAC and to adjust for under-recoveries and over-recoveries with a two-month lag. In Texas, fuel costs are recovered through a fixed fuel factor that may be adjusted three times per year. If we materially under-recover fuel costs, we may seek a surcharge to recover those costs at any time the balance exceeds a threshold material amount and is expected to continue to be materially under-recovered. During periods of significant increases in natural gas prices such as occurred in the first eight months of 2008, the Company realizes a lag in the ability to reflect increases in fuel costs in its fuel recovery mechanisms. As a result, cash flow is impacted due to the lag in payment of fuel costs and collection of fuel costs from customers. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the Company had a net over-collection balance of $18.0 million and a net under-collection balance of $46.9 million, respectively. To the extent the fuel and purchased power recovery processes in Texas and New Mexico do not provide for the timely recovery of such costs, we could experience a material negative impact on our cash flow. Equipment Failures and Other External Factors Can Adversely Affect Our Results The generation and transmission of electricity require the use of expensive and complex equipment. While we have a maintenance program in place, generating plants are subject to unplanned outages because of equipment failure. We are particularly vulnerable to this due to the advanced age of several of our gas-fired generating units in or near El Paso. In addition, we are seeking to extend the lives of these plants. In the event of unplanned outages, we must acquire power from others at unpredictable costs in order to supply our customers and comply with our contractual agreements. This can materially increase our costs and prevent us from selling excess power at wholesale, thus reducing our profits. In addition, actions of other utilities may adversely affect our ability to use transmission lines to deliver or import power, thus subjecting us to unexpected expenses or to the cost and uncertainty of public policy initiatives. We are particularly vulnerable to this because a significant portion of our available energy (at Palo Verde and Four Corners) is located hundreds of miles from El Paso and Las Cruces and must be delivered to our customers over long distance transmission lines. In addition, Palo Verde’s availability is an important factor in realizing off-system sales margins. These factors, as well as weather, interest rates, economic conditions, fuel prices and price volatility, are largely beyond 28 Table of Contents our control, but may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, cash flows and financial position. Competition and Deregulation Could Result in a Loss of Customers and Increased Costs As a result of changes in federal law, our wholesale and large retail customers already have, in varying degrees, alternative sources of power, including co-generation of electric power. Deregulation legislation is in effect in Texas requiring us to separate our transmission and distribution functions, which would remain regulated, from our power generation and energy services businesses, which would operate in a competitive market, in the future. In 2004, the PUCT approved a rule delaying retail competition in our Texas service territory. This rule identified various milestones that we must reach before retail competition can begin. The first milestone calls for the development, approval by the FERC, and commencement of independent operation of an RTO in the area that includes our service territory. This and other milestones are not likely to be achieved for a number of years, if they are achieved at all. There is substantial uncertainty about both the regulatory framework and market conditions that would exist if and when retail competition is implemented in our Texas service territory, and we may incur substantial preparatory, restructuring and other costs that may not ultimately be recoverable. There can be no assurance that deregulation would not adversely affect our future operations, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, in an order dated December 17, 2009, the NMPRC concluded that certain third party developers who own renewable generation which is installed on utility customers’ premises to supply one or more customers with a portion of their electricity needs, payments for which are based on a kW charge, are not public utilities subject to regulation by the NMPRC. The New Mexico legislature recently passed legislation which, if signed by the governor, would establish the circumstances under which certain third-party suppliers would be permitted to compete with the Company on a limited basis beginning in January 2011. If this order survives an appeal filed by us and other public utilities or if the legislation is signed by the governor and becomes law, we may face competition from these third party developers in New Mexico. There can be no assurance that such competition would not adversely affect our future operations, cash flow and financial condition. Climate Change and Related Legislation and Regulatory Initiatives Could Affect Demand for Electricity or Availability of Resources, and Could Result in Increased Compliance Costs The U.S. Congress is considering new legislation to restrict or regulate greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, which was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2009, could, if enacted by the full Congress, require greenhouse gas emissions reductions by covered sources of as much as 17% from 2005 levels by 2020 and by as much as 83% by 2050. In addition, almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. The State of New Mexico, where we operate one facility and have an interest in another facility, has joined with California and several other states in the Western Regional Climate Action Initiative and is pursuing a rulemaking which would be more restrictive than the legislation pending in Congress to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the state. Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, the EPA may regulate greenhouse gas emissions even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. It is not currently possible to predict how any such proposed or future greenhouse gas legislation by Congress, the states or multi-state regions or any such regulations adopted by the EPA or state 29 Table of Contents environmental agencies will impact our business. However, any such legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions or any future related litigation could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or increased or reduced demand for our services, could require us to purchase rights to emit greenhouse gases, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, reputation or results of operations. Climate change also has potential physical effects that could be relevant to the Company’s business. In particular, some studies suggest that climate change could affect our service area by causing higher temperatures, less winter precipitation and less spring runoff, as well as by causing more extreme weather events. Such developments could change the demand for power in the region and could also impact the price or ready availability of water supplies and affect maintenance needs and the reliability of Company equipment. Given the very significant remaining uncertainties regarding whether and how these issues will be regulated, as well as the timing and severity of any physical effects of climate change, we believe it is impossible at present to meaningfully quantify the costs of these potential impacts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company as of February 15, 2010, were as follows: Name Age Current Position and Business Experience David W. Stevens 50 Chief Executive Officer since November 2008; Principal of Professional Consulting Services, LLC from December 2007 to November 2008; President, Chief Executive Officer and Board Member for Cascade Natural Gas Corporation from April 2005 to July 2007; President and Chief Operating Officer for Panhandle Energy from July 2003 to April 2005. J. Frank Bates 59 President since October 2009; President and Chief Operating Officer from November 2008 to October 2009; Interim President and Chief Executive Officer from February 2008 to November 2008; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from May 2005 to February 2008; Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer from November 2001 to May 2005. David G. Carpenter 54 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2009; Vice President – Regulatory Services and Controller from September 2008 to August 2009; Vice President – Corporate Planning and Controller from August 2005 to September 2008; Director – Texas Regulatory Services for American Electric Power Services Corporation from June 2000 to August 2005. Richard G. Fleager 59 Senior Vice President – Customer Care and External Affairs since April 2009; Vice President for Texas Gas Service from September 1997 to March 2009. Rocky R. Miracle 56 Senior Vice President – Corporate Planning and Development since August 2009; Vice President – Corporate Planning from September 2008 to August 2009; Director of Business Operations Support – Texas Operations for American Electric Power Services Corporation from August 2004 to August 2008. George A. Williams 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since October 2009; Senior Vice President-Operations for Commonwealth Edison from August 2006 to September 2009; Vice President – Operations Grand Gulf Nuclear Operation Station for Entergy Nuclear South from April 2003 to August 2006. Steven T. Buraczyk 42 Vice President – Power Marketing and Fuels since July 2008; Director of Power Marketing and Fuels from August 2006 to August 2008; Manager of Power Marketing from August 2004 to August 2006. Steven P. Busser 41 Vice President – Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer since May 2006; Vice President – Regulatory Affairs and Treasurer from February 2005 to April 2006; Treasurer from February 2003 to February 2005. Robert C. Doyle 50 Vice President – New Mexico Affairs since February 2007; Director – New Mexico Affairs from January 2007 to February 2007; Manager – Corporate Projects Office from August 2004 to January 2007. Nathan T. Hirshi 46 Vice President – Special Projects since December 2009; Partner – Assurance for KPMG LLP from January 2005 to April 2009. Mary E. Kipp 42 Vice President – Legal and Chief Compliance Officer since December 2009; Assistant General Counsel and Director of FERC Compliance from December 2007 to December 2009; Senior Enforcement Attorney – FERC from January 2004 to December 2007. Kerry B. Lore 50 Vice President – Customer Care since December 2008; Vice President – Administration from May 2003 to December 2008. Hector R. Puente 53 Vice President – Transmission and Distribution since May 2006; Vice President – Distribution from February 2006 to April 2006; Vice President – Power Generation from April 2001 to February 2006. Andres R. Ramirez 49 Vice President – Power Generation since February 2006; Vice President – Safety, Environmental and Resource Planning from July 2005 to February 2006; Executive Director – Operations for Sempra Energy Texas Service from August 2004 to July 2005. Guillermo Silva, Jr. 56 Corporate Secretary since February 2006; Vice President – Information Services from February 2003 to February 2006. John A. Whitacre 60 Vice President – System Operations and Planning since May 2006; Vice President – Transmission from February 2006 to April 2006; Vice President – Transmission and Distribution from July 2002 to February 2006. The executive officers of the Company are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. 31 Table of Contents 