Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to invest in our securities. The risks described below are the material risks of which we are currently aware; however, they may not be the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business. If any of these risks develop into actual events, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Changes in current environmental legislation could have an adverse impact on the sale of our environmental control systems and products and on our operating results. Our environmental systems business is primarily driven by capital spending, clean air rules, plant upgrades by our customers to comply with laws and regulations governing the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment or human health. These laws include U.S. federal statutes such as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Interstate Rule, and the regulations implementing these statutes, as well as similar laws and regulations at state and local levels and in other countries. These U.S. laws and regulations may change and other countries may not adopt similar laws and regulations. Our business may be adversely impacted to the extent that environmental regulations are repealed, amended, implementation dates delayed, or to the extent that regulatory authorities reduce enforcement. Our dependence upon fixed-price contracts could adversely affect our operating results. The majority of our projects are currently performed on a fixed-price basis. Under a fixed-price contract, we agree on the price that we will receive for the entire project, based upon a defined scope, which includes specific assumptions and project criteria. If our estimates of our own costs to complete the project are below the actual costs that we incur, our margins will decrease, and we may incur a loss. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a fixed-price contract will often vary from the estimated amounts because of unforeseen conditions or changes in job conditions and variations in labor and equipment productivity over the term of the contract. If we are unsuccessful in mitigating these risks, we may realize gross profits that are different from those originally estimated and incur reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending on the size of a project, these variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant effect on our operating results for any quarter or year. In general, turnkey contracts to be performed on a fixed-price basis involve an increased risk of significant variations. This is a result of the long-term nature of these contracts and the inherent difficulties in estimating costs and of the interrelationship of the integrated services to be provided under these contracts whereby unanticipated costs or delays in performing part of the contract can have compounding effects by increasing costs of performing other parts of the contract. If actual costs for our projects with fixed-price contracts exceed our original estimates, our profits will be reduced or we may suffer losses. The majority of our contracts are fixed-priced contracts. Although we benefit from cost savings, we have limited ability to recover cost overruns. Because of the large scale and long-term nature of certain of our contracts, unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors, including: • Increases in cost or shortages of components, materials or labor; • Unanticipated technical problems; • Required project modifications not initiated by the customer; and • Suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform. 15 Table of Contents Any of these factors could delay delivery of our products. Our contracts often provide for liquidated damages in the case of late delivery. Unanticipated costs that we cannot pass on to our customers, for example the increases in steel prices or the payment of liquidated damages under fixed contracts, would negatively impact our profits. Our business may be adversely affected by global economic conditions. The continuation or resurgence of the recent global economic downturn and credit crisis may have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and future results of operations. Specific risk factors related to these overall economic and credit conditions include the following: customer or potential customers may reduce or delay their procurement or new product development; key suppliers may become insolvent resulting in delays for our material purchases; vendors and other third parties may fail to perform their contractual obligations; customers may be unable to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and services; and certain customers may become insolvent. These risk factors could reduce our product sales, increase our operating costs, impact our ability to collect customer receivables, lengthen our cash conversion cycle and increase our need for cash, which would ultimately decrease our profitability and negatively impact our financial condition. It could also limit our ability to expand through acquisitions due to the tightening of the credit markets. Our ability to obtain financing for future growth opportunities may be limited. Our ability to execute our growth strategies may be limited by our ability to secure and retain additional financing at terms reasonably acceptable to us or at all. Certain of our competitors are larger companies that may have greater access to capital, and therefore, may have a competitive advantage over us should our access to capital be limited. Our inability to deliver our backlog on time could affect our future sales and profitability, and our relationships with our customers. Our backlog from continuing operations has increased to $54.9 million at December 31, 2011 from $54.3 million at December 31, 2010. Our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for our backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Our failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations may result in damage to existing customer relationships and result in the loss of future business. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance and cause adverse changes in the market price of our common stock. Since our financial performance is seasonal, current results are not necessarily indicative of future results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to the seasonality of our business and these fluctuations make it more difficult for us to predict accurately in a timely manner factors that may have a negative impact on our business. The fourth quarter of our fiscal year, which ends December 31, is typically our strongest quarter. For example, many of our customers attempt to complete major capital improvement projects before the end of the calendar year. In addition, many customers shut down over the Christmas holidays to perform maintenance services on their facilities. These factors create increased demand for our products and services during this period. Conversely, the first quarter of our fiscal year is typically our weakest quarter. This is caused to some extent by winter weather constraints on outside construction activity but also by the seasonality of capital improvement projects as discussed relating to the fourth quarter. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. 16 Table of Contents Our financial performance may vary significantly from period to period, making it difficult to estimate future revenue. Our annual revenues and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Our contracts generally stipulate customer specific delivery terms and may have contract cycles of a year or more, which subjects these contracts to many factors beyond our control. In addition, contracts that are significantly larger in size than our typical contracts tend to intensify their impact on our annual operating results. Furthermore, as a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed, an unanticipated decrease in our revenues, a delay or cancellation of orders in backlog, or a decrease in the demand for our products, may have a significant impact on our annual operating results. Therefore, our annual operating results may be subject to significant variations and our operating performance in one period may not be indicative of our future performance. Percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenue may result in material adjustments that would adversely affect our operating results. We recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method on fixed price contracts over $50,000. Under this method for each contract, estimated contract revenue is calculated based generally on the percentage that actual direct costs to date are to total estimated direct costs. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Accordingly, contract revenue and total direct cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses and as change orders are approved, and adjustments based upon the percentage-of-completion are reflected in contract revenue in the period when these estimates are revised. These estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and our historical experience, and are only estimates. Variation of actual results from these assumptions, which are outside the control of management or our historical experience, could be material. To the extent that these adjustments result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of previously reported contract revenue, we would recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, which could be material. We may make future acquisitions, which involve numerous risks that could impact our business and results of operations. Our operating strategy involves horizontally expanding our scope of products and services through selective acquisitions and the formation of new business units that are then vertically integrated into our growing family of turnkey system providers. We have acquired, and may selectively acquire, other businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies that are complementary to our business. We may be unable to find or consummate future acquisitions at acceptable prices and terms. We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies; • diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • unanticipated costs and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities; • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies; • our ability to properly establish and maintain effective internal controls over an acquired company; and • increasing demands on our operational and information technology systems. Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies we purchase, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding their actual operating and financial condition. Until we actually assume operating 17 Table of Contents control of these businesses, product or service lines, assets or technologies, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities. This is particularly true with respect to acquisitions outside the United States. In addition, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. Our credit facility with Fifth Third Bank (the “Bank Facility”) contains certain covenants that limit, or which may have the effect of limiting, among other things acquisitions, capital expenditures, the sale of assets and the incurrence of additional indebtedness. A significant portion of our accounts receivable are related to larger contracts, which increases our exposure to credit risk. We closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers. Significant portions of our sales are to customers who place large orders for custom products and whose activities are related to the power and oil/gas industries. As a result, our exposure to credit risk is affected to some degree by conditions within these industries and governmental and/or political conditions. If any of these customers enter bankruptcy or liquidation it may have a material adverse affect on our revenues and accounts receivable. We frequently attempt to reduce our exposure to credit risk by requiring progress payments and letters of credit. However, the continuing economic climate and other unanticipated events that affect our customers could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results. Changes in billing terms can increase our exposure to working capital and credit risk. Our products are generally sold under contracts that allow us to bill upon the completion of certain agreed upon milestones or upon actual shipment of the product, and in certain contracts include a retention provision. We attempt to negotiate progress-billing milestones on all large contracts to help us manage the working capital and credit risk associated with these large contracts. Consequently, shifts in the billing terms of the contracts in our backlog from period to period can increase our requirement for working capital and can increase our exposure to credit risk. Customers may cancel or delay projects. As a result, our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenue. Customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control, including due to current economic conditions. Our orders normally contain cancellation provisions which permit us to recover our costs, and, for most contracts, a portion of our anticipated profit in the event a customer cancels an order. If a customer elects to cancel an order, we may not realize the full amount of revenues included in our backlog. If projects are delayed, the timing of our revenues could be affected and projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. Revenue recognition occurs over long periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. If we receive relatively large orders in any given quarter, fluctuations in the levels of our quarterly backlog can result because the backlog in that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. As a result, our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues. With rare exceptions, we are not issued contracts until a customer is ready to start work on a project. Thus, it is our experience that the only relation between the length of a project and the possibility that a project may be cancelled is simply the fact that there is more time involved. In a year- long as opposed to a three-month project more time is available for the customer to experience a softening in their business, which may cause the customer to cancel a project. An SEC investigation involving us may result in future costs to us, and could adversely affect us. As previously disclosed, we are currently the subject of a non-public formal investigation by the SEC. We have been cooperating with and intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC. However, there can be no assurance that the SEC will not take any action that could adversely affect us as a result of the matters it is reviewing. We have incurred legal fees and other expenses in connection with the informal SEC inquiry and 18 Table of Contents could incur significant legal fees, penalties and other expenses in connection with the ongoing SEC investigation. In addition, members of our management have devoted in the past, and may need to devote in the future, a significant amount of time to these matters, which would reduce the amount of time they can devote to our business and therefore have an adverse effect on our business. Our gross margins are affected by shifts in our product mix. Certain of our products have higher gross profit margins than others. Consequently, changes in the product mix of our sales from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported gross profit margins. Certain of our products also have a much higher internally manufactured cost component. Therefore, changes from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported gross margins. In addition, contracts with a higher percentage of subcontracted work or equipment purchases may result in lower gross profit margins. If our goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, we may be required to recognize charges that would reduce our net income or increase our net loss. As of December 31, 2011, goodwill and intangibles represented approximately $18.4 million, or 23.2% of our total assets. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer amortized, but instead are subject to annual impairment evaluations (or more often if circumstances require). Major factors that influence our evaluations are our estimates for future revenue and expenses associated with the specific intangible asset or the reporting unit in which our goodwill resides. This is the most sensitive of our estimates related to our evaluations. Other factors considered in our evaluations include assumptions as to the business climate, industry and economic conditions. These assumptions are subjective and different estimates could have a significant impact on the results of our analyses. While management, based on current forecasts and outlooks, believes that the assumptions and estimates are reasonable, we can make no assurances that future actual operating results will be realized as planned and that there will not be material impairment charges as a result. In particular, a prolonged continuation of the current economic climate could continue to have a material adverse impact on our customers thereby forcing them to reduce or curtail doing business with us and such a result may materially affect the amount of cash flow generated by our future operations. Any write-down of goodwill or intangible assets resulting from future periodic evaluations would, as applicable, either decrease our net income or increase our net loss and those decreases or increases could be material. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to political, investment and local business risks. In 2011, approximately 23% of our total revenue was derived from products or services ultimately delivered or provided to end-users outside the United States. As part of our operating strategy, we intend to expand our international operations through internal growth and selected acquisitions. Our aspirations in the future are to balance revenues 50/50 between the U.S. and global market. Operations outside of the United States, particularly in emerging markets, are subject to a variety of normal risks which are different from or additional to the risks we face within the United States. Among others, these risks include: • local, economic, political and social conditions, including potential hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries; • imposition of limitations on the remittance of dividends and payments by foreign subsidiaries; • adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations, including significant devaluations of currencies; • tax-related risks, including the imposition of taxes and the lack of beneficial treaties, that result in a higher effective tax rate for us; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign local systems; • domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and quotas or other trade barriers; • increased costs for transportation and shipping; 19 Table of Contents • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; • managing and obtaining support and distribution channels for overseas operations; • hiring and retaining qualified management personnel for our overseas operations; • legal and regulatory requirements, including import, export, defense regulations and foreign exchange controls; • imposition or increase of restrictions on investment; and • required compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations which may be materially different than those to which we are subject in the United States. The occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or upon the financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition in the markets we serve. The industries in which we compete are all highly competitive and highly fragmented. We compete against a number of local, regional and national contractors and manufacturers in each of our product or service lines, many of which have been in existence longer than us and some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, performance, speed of delivery, quality, customer support and single source responsibility. We believe new entrants that are large corporations may be able to compete with us on the basis of price and as a result may have a material adverse affect on the results of our operations. In addition, we cannot state that other companies will not develop new or enhanced products that are either more effective than ours or would render our products non-competitive or obsolete. Any failure by us to compete effectively in the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increasing costs for manufactured components, raw materials, transportation, health care and energy prices may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our products, including raw steel, steel-related components, filtration media, and equipment such as fans, motors, etc. Materials and subcontracting costs comprise the largest component of our costs, representing approximately 56% of the costs of our net sales in 2011. Further increases in the price of these items could further materially increase our operating costs and materially adversely affect our profit margins. Similarly, transportation and health care costs have risen steadily over the past few years and represent an increasingly important burden for us. Although we try to contain these costs wherever possible, and although we try to pass along increased costs in the form of price increases to our customers, we may be unsuccessful in doing so for competitive reasons, and even when successful, the timing of such price increases may lag significantly behind our incurrence of higher costs. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could disrupt our operations or be adverse to our business. We are highly dependent on the experience of our management in the continuing development of our operations. The loss of the services of certain of these individuals would have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have employment and non-competition agreements with certain of our key employees, as a practical matter, those agreements will not assure the retention of our employees, and we may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in any employment or non-competition agreement. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to manage our development and future growth. We cannot state that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our failure to recruit additional key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We have indebtedness, which may adversely affect our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants, make payments on our debt and limit our growth. As of March 1, 2012, the aggregate amount of our convertible debt was $9.6 million and we had no outstanding indebtedness under our Bank Facility. Our convertible debt is convertible at $4.00 per share and since the current stock price exceeds that threshold, we anticipate that at least portions of this debt will be converted to equity. If we incur additional debt in the future, any outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences for investors, including the following: • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our Bank Facility and subordinated debt, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of the agreements governing such indebtedness, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under such agreements; • the covenants contained in our debt agreements limit our ability to borrow money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations; • the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; • we may need to use a portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities; • we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general; and • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our existing or future debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money to service our existing or future debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing or future debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity. We may not be able to refinance our existing or future debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our manufacturing operations are dependent on third-party suppliers. Although we are not dependent on any one supplier, we are dependent on the ability of our third-party suppliers to supply our raw materials, as well as certain specific component parts. We purchase our entire chemical grade fiberglass from one domestic supplier, which we believe is the only domestic supplier of such fiberglass, and certain specialty items from only two domestic suppliers. These items also can be purchased from foreign suppliers. Failure by our third-party suppliers to meet our requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that our third-party suppliers will dedicate sufficient resources to meet our scheduled delivery requirements or that our suppliers will have sufficient resources to satisfy our requirements during any period of sustained demand. Failure of manufacturers or suppliers to supply, or delays in supplying, our raw materials or certain components, or allocations in the supply of certain high demand raw components could materially adversely affect our operations and ability to meet our own delivery schedules on a timely and competitive basis. 21 Table of Contents Failure to maintain adequate internal controls could adversely affect our business. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 10-K, a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and could become increasingly stringent in the future. We have undertaken actions to enhance our ability to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, but not limited to, the engagement of consultants, the documentation of existing controls and the implementation of new controls or modification of existing controls as deemed appropriate. We continue to devote substantial time and resources to the documentation and testing of our controls, and to planning for and implementation of remedial efforts in those instances where remediation is indicated. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended in the future; we could be subject to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running our day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 will continue to be significant. There are inherent limitations in all internal control systems over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While we continue to take action to ensure compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be evaluated in relation to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. If we do not develop improved products and new products in a timely manner in response to industry demands, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. The air pollution control and filtration industry is characterized by ongoing technological developments and changing customer requirements. As a result, our success and continued growth depend, in part, on our ability in a timely manner to develop or acquire rights to, and successfully introduce into the marketplace, enhancements of existing products or new products that incorporate technological advances, meet customer requirements and respond to products developed by our competition. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or acquiring such rights to products on a timely basis or that such products will adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. 22 Table of Contents Our business can be significantly affected by changes in technology and regulatory standards. The air pollution control and filtration industry is characterized by changing technology, competitively imposed process standards and regulatory requirements, each of which influences the demand for our products and services. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industrial requirements may render certain of our filtration products and processes obsolete. Acceptance of new products and services may also be affected by the adoption of new government regulations requiring stricter standards. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products successfully on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive. We cannot state that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive or that certain of our products or services will not become obsolete. We might be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could expose us to costly disputes. We hold various patents and licenses relating to certain of our products. We cannot state as to the extent or degree of protection that existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, that our patents will be upheld, if challenged, or that competitors will not develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of any patent issued to us. Although we believe that our products do not and will not infringe patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible that our existing patent rights may not be valid or that infringement of existing or future patents or proprietary rights may occur. In the event our products infringe patents or proprietary rights of others, we may be required to modify the design of our products or obtain a license for certain technology. We cannot state that we will be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all. Failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. In addition, we state that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violations action which may be brought against us. Moreover, if our products infringe patents or proprietary rights of others, we could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which also could have a material adverse effect on our business. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations. As of March 1, 2012, 172 of our 478 employees are represented by international or independent labor unions under various union contracts that expire from May 31, 2012 to May 31, 2014. It is possible that our workforce will become more unionized in the future. Although we consider our employee relations to generally be good, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at one or more of our facilities in the future and we may be affected by other labor disputes. A work stoppage at one or more of our facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business. Unionization activities could also increase our costs, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Additionally, a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. Stoppages by employees of our customers also could result in reduced demand for our products. We may incur material costs as a result of product liability claims, or other claims and litigation which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows; and our insurance coverage may not cover all claims or may in insufficient to cover the claims. Despite our quality assurance measures, we may be exposed to product liability claims, other claims and litigation in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability and other claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability and other claims. Any future damages that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of 23 Table of Contents policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, product liability and other claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a product liability or other claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. Even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our Company. Liability to customers under warranties may adversely affect our reputation, our ability to obtain future business and our earnings. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the products we manufacture. Failure of our products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or monetary reimbursement to a customer. We have in the past received warranty claims, and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, our ability to obtain future business and our earnings could be adversely affected. Our use of subcontractors could potentially harm our profitability and business reputation. Occasionally we act as a prime contractor in some of the engineered projects we undertake. In our capacity as lead provider and when acting as a subcontractor, we perform most of the work on our projects with our own resources and typically subcontract only such specialized activities as electrical work, concrete work, insulation, conveyors, controls, etc. In our industry, the lead contractor is normally responsible for the performance of the entire contract, including subcontract work. Thus, when acting as a prime contractor, we are subject to the risk associated with the failure of one or more subcontractors to perform as anticipated. We are strategically selecting only certain profile type projects to become the lead contractor going forward. We employ subcontractors at various locations around the world to meet our customers’ needs in a timely manner, meet local content requirements and reduce costs. Subcontractors generally perform the majority of our manufacturing for international customers. We also utilize subcontractors in North America. The use of subcontractors decreases our control over the performance of these functions and could result in project delays, escalated costs and substandard quality. These risks could adversely affect our profitability and business reputation. In addition, many of our competitors, who have greater financial resources and greater bargaining power than we have, use the same subcontractors that we use and could potentially influence our ability to hire these subcontractors. If we were to lose relationships with key subcontractors, our business could be adversely impacted. Currency fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. A portion of our consolidated revenues are generated outside the United States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Translation losses resulting from currency fluctuations may adversely affect the profits from our operations and have a negative impact on our financial results. Foreign currency fluctuations may also make our systems and products more expensive for our customers, which could have a negative impact on our sales. In addition, we purchase some foreign-made products directly and through our subcontractors. Due to the multiple currencies involved in our business, foreign currency positions partially offset and are netted against one another to reduce exposure. We cannot assure that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase. Increases in our direct or indirect cost of purchasing these products could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our customers. 24 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks of terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters. Terrorist acts, acts of war, or national disasters may disrupt our operations and information and distribution systems, as well as those of our customers. These types of acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, thus forcing our customers to reduce their capital spending, or cancel or delay already planned construction projects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Increased information technology (IT) security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our executive officers and directors are able to exercise significant influence over CECO, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders. As of March 1, 2012, our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock, assuming the exercise of currently exercisable warrants and options beneficially held by them. The interests of management with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Management’s continued concentrated ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage, in related party transactions and such transactions present possible conflicts of interest. We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage, in several related party transactions, including issuance of subordinated debt, management consulting services, and office space and other expenses related to our Toronto office. All such transactions were approved by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, which believed that the transactions were in our best interest. Transactions of this nature present the possibility of a conflict of interest whereby the other party may advance its economic or business interests or objectives that may conflict with or be contrary to our best interests. Any such conflict could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. The limited liquidity for our common stock could affect your ability to sell your shares at a satisfactory price. Our common stock is relatively illiquid. As of March 1, 2012, we had 14,516,342 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the 60 calendar days ended March 1, 2012 was approximately 14,690 shares. A more active public market for our common stock, however, may not develop, which would continue to adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Moreover, a thin trading market for our stock causes the market price for our common stock to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, liquidation of a holding of our stock at a satisfactory price might not be possible. The market price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance and investors may not be able to resell shares they purchase at their purchase price. The stock market has experienced and may in the future experience volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility. During the twelve-month period ended March 1, 2012, the sale prices of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market have ranged from a low of $4.98 to a high of $8.05 per share. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • the relatively low float of our common stock caused, among other reasons, by the holdings of our principal shareholders; • adverse general economic conditions, such as those currently being experienced, including withdrawals of investments in the stock markets generally and a tightening of credit available to potential acquirers of businesses, that result in a lower average prices being paid for public company shares and lower valuations being placed on businesses; • other domestic and international macroeconomic factors unrelated to our performance; • our failure to meet the expectations of the investment community; • industry trends and the business success of our customers; • loss of key customers; • announcements of technological advances by us or our competitors; • current events affecting the political and economic environment in the United States; • conditions or trends in our industry, including demand for our products and services, technological advances and governmental regulations; • litigation involving or affecting us; and • additions or departures of our key personnel. The realization of any of these risks and other factors beyond our control could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. The number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our stock. We have reserved 2.0 million shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (“2007 Plan”), which may include option grants, stock grants and restricted stock grants. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 1.2 million options or shares of restricted stock have been issued under the 2007 Plan. Icarus, an affiliate of Phillip DeZwirek and Jason DeZwirek, also owns warrants to purchase 250,000 shares of common stock that have piggy-back rights granting it the right to require that we register such shares in the event we file any registration statements in the future. 26 Table of Contents We had outstanding options to purchase approximately 238,000 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2011 under our 1997 Stock Option Plan and outstanding options to purchase approximately 936,000 shares under our 2007 plan. The shares under both plans are registered for resale on currently effective registration statements. We also have subordinated promissory notes issued to several private investors that may be converted into 2.4 million shares of our common stock. We may issue additional restricted securities or register additional shares of common stock under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) in the future. The issuance of a significant number of shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options or warrants, or the availability for sale, or resale, of a substantial number of the shares of common stock under registration statements, under Rule 144 or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Issuance of shares under our stock incentive plan, under our convertible debentures, or under warrants, or in connection with financing transactions will dilute current stockholders. Pursuant to our stock incentive plan, our management is authorized to grant stock awards to our employees, directors and consultants. Dilution will occur upon exercise of any outstanding stock awards. We have issued convertible debentures that may be converted into 2.4 million shares, the conversion of which will cause dilution to occur. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. In addition, we have historically issued warrants to purchase common shares in conjunction with business acquisitions, debt issuances and employment contracts, of which 250,000 warrants are currently outstanding, which may cause dilution when exercised. Our ability to issue preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 10,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series on terms that may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors. Accordingly, we may issue shares of any series of preferred stock that would rank senior to the common stock as to voting or dividend rights or rights upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Certain provisions in our charter documents have anti-takeover effects. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. Such provisions, including those limiting who may call special stockholders’ meetings, together with the possible issuance of our preferred stock without stockholder approval, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Not Applicable 