Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other companies in our industry, our consolidated financial results will be impacted by weather, the economy of our service territory, market prices for power, fuel prices, and the decisions of regulatory agencies. Our common stock price and creditworthiness will be affected by local, regional and national macroeconomic trends, general market conditions and the expectations of the investment community, all of which are largely beyond our control. In addition, the following statements highlight risk factors that may affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. These are not intended to be an exhaustive discussion of all such risks, and the statements below must be read together with factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the SEC. Our Revenues and Profitability Depend upon Regulated Rates Our retail rates are subject to regulation by incorporated municipalities in Texas, the PUCT, the NMPRC and the FERC. The settlement approved in the Company’s 2009 Texas rate case, PUCT Docket No. 37690, established the Company’s current retail base rates in Texas, effective July 1, 2010. In addition, the settlement in the Company’s 2009 New Mexico rate case, NMPRC Case No. 09-00171-UT, established rates that became effective January 2010. The Company continually evaluates the need to file general base rate cases in Texas and New Mexico to incorporate increases in invested capital and costs. Our profitability depends on our ability to recover the costs, including a reasonable return on invested capital, of providing electric service to our customers through base rates approved by our regulators. These rates are generally established based on an analysis of the expenses we incur in a historical test year, and as a result, the rates ultimately approved by our regulators may or may not match our expenses at any given time. Rates in New Mexico may be established using projected costs and investment for a future test year period in certain instances. While rate regulation is based on the assumption that we will have a reasonable opportunity to recover our costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on our invested capital, there can be no assurance that future rate cases will result in base rates that will allow us to fully recover our costs including a reasonable return on invested capital. There can be no assurance that regulators will determine that all of our costs are reasonable and have been prudently incurred. It is also likely that third parties will intervene in any rate cases and challenge whether our costs are reasonable and necessary. If all of our costs are not recovered through the retail base rates ultimately approved by our regulators, our profitability and cash flow could be adversely affected which, over time, could adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations. We May Not Be Able To Recover All Costs of New Generation The construction of Newman Unit 5, Phase 2, will add two heat recovery steam generators and a steam turbine with an expected net capacity of 148 MW. Phase 2 is currently expected to be completed before the summer of 2011. We have risk associated with completing the construction of Newman Unit 5 on time and within projected costs. In 2010, we established a new revolving credit facility which could help fund the construction of these two new units. The costs of financing and constructing these units will be reviewed in future rate cases in both Texas and New Mexico. To the extent that the PUCT or NMPRC determines that the costs of construction are not reasonable because of cost overruns, delays or other reasons, we may not be allowed to recover these costs from customers in base rates. 24 Table of Contents In addition, if these units are not completed on time, we may be required to purchase power or operate less efficient generating units to meet customer requirements. Any replacement purchased power or fuel costs will be subject to regulatory review by the PUCT and NMPRC. We face financial risks to the extent that recovery is not allowed for any replacement fuel costs resulting from delays in the completion of these two units. Turmoil in the Credit Markets and Economic Downturn In recent years, the global credit and equity markets and the overall economy have been through a state of turmoil and have not fully recovered. These events could have a number of effects on our operations and our capital programs. For example, tight credit and capital markets could make it difficult and more expensive to raise capital to fund our operations and capital programs. If we are unable to access the credit markets, we could be required to defer or eliminate important capital projects in the future. In addition, recent stock market performance has provided limited returns on our financial assets and decommissioning trust investments. Such market results may also increase our funding obligations for our pension plans, other post-retirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trusts. Changes in the corporate interest rates which we use as the discount rate to determine our pension and other post-retirement liabilities may have an impact on our funding obligations for such plans and trusts. Further, the continued weak economy may result in reduced customer demand, both in the retail and wholesale markets, and increases in customer delinquencies and write-offs. The credit markets and overall economy may also adversely impact the financial health of our suppliers. If that were to occur, our access to and prices for inventory, supplies and capital equipment could be adversely affected. Our power trading counterparties could also be adversely impacted by the market and economic conditions which could result in reduced wholesale power sales or increased counterparty credit risk. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of possible effects, and we may be adversely impacted in other ways. Our Costs Could Increase or We Could Experience Reduced Revenues if There are Problems at the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station A significant percentage of our generating capacity, off-system sales margins, assets and operating expenses is attributable to Palo Verde. Our 15.8% interest in each of the three Palo Verde units totals approximately 633 MW of generating capacity. Palo Verde represents approximately 39% of our available net generating capacity and provided approximately 45% of our energy requirements for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. Palo Verde comprises approximately 37% of our total net plant-in-service and Palo Verde expenses comprise a significant portion of operation and maintenance expenses. APS is the operating agent for Palo Verde, and we have limited ability under the ANPP Participation Agreement to influence operations and costs at Palo Verde. Palo Verde operated at a capacity factor of 90.4% and 88.9% in the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our ability to increase retail base rates in Texas and New Mexico is limited and we cannot assure that revenues will be sufficient to recover any increased costs, including any increased costs in connection with Palo Verde or other operations, whether as a result of inflation, changes in tax laws or regulatory requirements, or other causes. 25 Table of Contents We May Not Be Able to Recover All of Our Fuel Expenses from Customers In general, by law, we are entitled to recover our reasonable and necessary fuel and purchased power expenses from our customers in Texas and New Mexico. NMPRC Case No. 09-00171-UT provides for energy delivered to New Mexico customers from the deregulated Palo Verde Unit 3 to be recovered through fuel and purchased power costs based upon a previous purchased power contract with Credit Suisse Energy, LLC. Fuel and purchased power expenses in New Mexico and Texas are subject to reconciliation by the PUCT and the NMPRC. Prior to the completion of a reconciliation, we record fuel and purchased power costs such that fuel revenues equal recoverable fuel and purchased power expense including the repriced energy costs for Palo Verde Unit 3 in New Mexico. In the event that recovery of fuel and purchased power expenses is denied in a reconciliation proceeding, the amounts recorded for fuel and purchased power expenses could differ from the amounts we are allowed to collect from our customers, and we would incur a loss to the extent of the disallowance. In New Mexico, the FPPCAC allows us to reflect current fuel and purchased power expenses in the FPPCAC and to adjust for under-recoveries and over-recoveries with a two-month lag. In Texas, fuel costs are recovered through a fixed fuel factor. Effective July 1, 2010, we can seek to revise our fixed fuel factor based upon our approved formula at least four months after our last revision except in the month of December. If we materially under-recover fuel costs, we may seek a surcharge to recover those costs at any time the balance exceeds a threshold material amount and is expected to continue to be materially under-recovered. During periods of significant increases in natural gas prices such as occurred in the first eight months of 2008, the Company realizes a lag in the ability to reflect increases in fuel costs in its fuel recovery mechanisms. As a result, cash flow is impacted due to the lag in payment of fuel costs and collection of fuel costs from customers. To the extent the fuel and purchased power recovery processes in Texas and New Mexico do not provide for the timely recovery of such costs, we could experience a material negative impact on our cash flow. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had a net over-collection balance of $19.0 million and $18.0 million, respectively. Equipment Failures and Other External Factors Can Adversely Affect Our Results The generation and transmission of electricity require the use of expensive and complex equipment. While we have a maintenance program in place, generating plants are subject to unplanned outages because of equipment failure and severe weather conditions. The advanced age of several of our gas-fired generating units in or near El Paso increases the vulnerability of these units. In addition, we are seeking to extend the lives of these plants. In the event of unplanned outages, we must acquire power from others at unpredictable costs in order to supply our customers and comply with our contractual agreements. This additional purchased power cost would be subject to review and approval of the PUCT and the NMPRC in reconciliation proceedings. As noted above, in the event that recovery for fuel and purchased power expenses could differ from the amounts we are allowed to collect from our customers, we would incur a loss to the extent of the disallowance. This can materially increase our costs and prevent us from selling excess power at wholesale, thus reducing our profits. In addition, actions of other utilities may adversely affect our ability to use transmission lines to deliver or import power, thus subjecting us to unexpected expenses or to the cost and uncertainty of public policy initiatives. We are particularly vulnerable to this because a significant portion of our available energy (at Palo Verde and Four Corners) is located hundreds of miles from El Paso and Las Cruces and must be delivered to our customers over long distance transmission lines. In addition, Palo Verde’s availability is an important factor in realizing off-system sales margins. These factors, as well as interest rates, 26 Table of Contents economic conditions, fuel prices and price volatility, are largely beyond our control, but may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, cash flow and financial position. Competition and Deregulation Could Result in a Loss of Customers and Increased Costs As a result of changes in federal law, our wholesale and large retail customers already have, in varying degrees, alternative sources of power, including co-generation of electric power. Deregulation legislation is in effect in Texas requiring us to separate our transmission and distribution functions, which would remain regulated, from our power generation and energy services businesses, which would operate in a competitive market, in the future. In 2004, the PUCT approved a rule delaying retail competition in our Texas service territory. This rule identified various milestones that we must reach before retail competition can begin. The first milestone calls for the development, approval by the FERC, and commencement of independent operation of a regional transmission organization in the area that includes our service territory. This and other milestones are not likely to be achieved for a number of years, if they are achieved at all. There is substantial uncertainty about both the regulatory framework and market conditions that would exist if and when retail competition is implemented in our Texas service territory, and we may incur substantial preparatory, restructuring and other costs that may not ultimately be recoverable. There can be no assurance that deregulation would not adversely affect our future operations, cash flow and financial condition. Furthermore, in an order dated December 17, 2009, the NMPRC concluded that certain third party developers who own renewable generation which is installed on utility customers’ premises to supply one or more customers with a portion of their electricity needs, payments for which are based on a kW charge, are not public utilities subject to regulation by the NMPRC. The New Mexico legislature passed legislation which was signed by the governor on May 9, 2010 establishing the circumstances under which certain third-party suppliers would be permitted to compete with the Company on a limited basis beginning in January 2011. There can be no assurance that such competition would not adversely affect our future operations, cash flow and financial condition. Climate Change and Related Legislation and Regulatory Initiatives Could Affect Demand for Electricity or Availability of Resources, and Could Result in Increased Compliance Costs The Company emits GHGs through the operation of its power plants. Federal legislation has been introduced in both houses of Congress to regulate the emission of GHGs and numerous states have adopted programs to stabilize or reduce GHG emissions. Additionally, the EPA is proceeding with regulation of GHG under the CAA. Under EPA regulations finalized in May 2010, the EPA began regulating GHG emissions from certain stationary sources, such as power plants, in January 2011. Further, state regulation may precede federal GHG legislation. In the State of New Mexico, where we operate one facility and have an interest in another facility, the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board approved two separate rulemakings in November and December 2010 to limit GHG emissions. There are various uncertainties relating to these regulations, including whether current legal challenges to them will be successful, but as drafted, we do not expect these regulations to result in significant costs to us. 27 Table of Contents It is not currently possible to predict how any pending proposed or future GHG legislation by Congress, the states or multi-state regions or any such regulations adopted by the EPA or state environmental agencies will impact our business. However, any legislation or regulation of GHG emissions or any future related litigation could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or increased or reduced demand for our services, could require us to purchase rights to emit GHG, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, reputation or results of operations. Climate change also has potential physical effects that could be relevant to the Company’s business. In particular, some studies suggest that climate change could affect our service area by causing higher temperatures, less winter precipitation and less spring runoff, as well as by causing more extreme weather events. Such developments could change the demand for power in the region and could also impact the price or ready availability of water supplies and affect maintenance needs and the reliability of Company equipment. Given the very significant remaining uncertainties regarding whether and how these issues will be regulated, as well as the timing and severity of any physical effects of climate change, we believe it is impossible at present to meaningfully quantify the costs of these potential impacts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company as of February 15, 2011, were as follows: Name Age Current Position and Business Experience David W. Stevens 51 Chief Executive Officer since November 2008; Principal of Professional Consulting Services, LLC from December 2007 to November 2008; President, Chief Executive Officer and Board Member for Cascade Natural Gas Corporation from April 2005 to July 2007. David G. Carpenter 55 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2009; Vice President – Regulatory Services and Controller from September 2008 to August 2009; Vice President – Corporate Planning and Controller from August 2005 to September 2008. Richard G. Fleager 60 Senior Vice President – Customer Care and External Affairs since April 2009; Vice President for Texas Gas Service from September 1997 to March 2009. Mary E. Kipp 43 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer since June 2010; Vice President – Legal and Chief Compliance Officer from December 2009 to June 2010; Assistant General Counsel and Director of FERC Compliance from December 2007 to December 2009; Senior Enforcement Attorney – FERC from January 2004 to December 2007. Rocky R. Miracle 57 Senior Vice President – Corporate Planning and Development since August 2009; Vice President – Corporate Planning from September 2008 to August 2009; Director of Business Operations Support – Texas Operations for American Electric Power Services Corporation from August 2004 to August 2008. Steven T. Buraczyk 43 Vice President – System Operations and Planning since January 2011; Vice President – Power Marketing and Fuels from July 2008 to January 2011; Director of Power Marketing and Fuels from August 2006 to July 2008; Manager of Power Marketing from August 2004 to August 2006. Steven P. Busser 42 Vice President – Treasurer since January 2011; Vice President – Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer from May 2006 to January 2011; Vice President – Regulatory Affairs and Treasurer from February 2005 to April 2006. Robert C. Doyle 51 Vice President – New Mexico Affairs since February 2007; Director – New Mexico Affairs from January 2007 to February 2007; Manager – Corporate Projects Office from August 2004 to January 2007. Nathan T. Hirschi 47 Vice President and Controller since March 2010; Vice President – Special Projects from December 2009 to February 2010; Partner for KPMG LLP from October 2003 to April 2009. Kerry B. Lore 51 Vice President – Customer Care since December 2008; Vice President – Administration from May 2003 to December 2008. Hector R. Puente 54 Vice President – Transmission and Distribution since May 2006; Vice President – Distribution from February 2006 to April 2006; Vice President – Power Generation from April 2001 to February 2006. Andres R. Ramirez 50 Vice President – Power Generation since February 2006; Vice President – Safety, Environmental and Resource Planning from July 2005 to February 2006. Guillermo Silva, Jr. 57 Corporate Secretary since February 2006; Vice President – Information Services from February 2003 to February 2006. John A. Whitacre 61 Vice President – Power Marketing and Fuels since January 2011; Vice President – System Operations and Planning from May 2006 to January 2011; Vice President – Transmission from February 2006 to April 2006; Vice President – Transmission and Distribution from July 2002 to February 2006. The executive officers of the Company are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. 29 Table of Contents 