Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if potentially adverse developments, some of which are described below, materialize and cannot be resolved successfully. In any such case, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also result in decreased revenues, increased expenses or other adverse impacts that could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Our business is subject to unique risks related to its international operations including the risk that we will be unable to adequately comply with the changing rules and regulations in countries where our business is conducted. We derive a significant portion of our revenue and earnings from international operations. Such operations outside the U.S. are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values and foreign currency exchange rates, import and export requirements and trade policy, anti-corruption laws, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Compliance with these U.S. and foreign laws and regulations increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions and these costs may continue to increase in the future as a result of changes in such laws and regulations or in their interpretation. Furthermore, we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Our success could be negatively impacted if we fail to control, oversee and direct foreign subsidiaries and their operations. We currently own foreign subsidiaries located within Europe and China where the employees and cultures represent certain vast differences from employees and cultures within the United States where our corporate headquarters is situated. While the cultural values and philosophies of the people located in Europe are generally viewed to be in alignment with that of U.S. persons, there are still some significant differences. For example, the respective European data privacy laws take a harsher position regarding the protection of employee personal data and, consequently, there is less information shared with the U.S. parent corporation regarding employees working for our European subsidiaries. Additionally, the human resources and the systems our foreign entities use can represent vast differences, notably, our Swiss subsidiary and Shanghai subsidiary utilize a primary language other than English for communications. Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates arising from international operations could harm our financial condition and operating results. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally will lead us to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for our products. In some circumstances, due to competition or other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices to the full extent to offset unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations, or at all, 16 Table of Contents which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause us to realize a reduction in our overall gross margin as the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated expenses increases. Our business activities are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other anti-bribery laws, as well as the restrictions agreed to in our respective settlements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and Department of Justice (“DOJ”). If we fail to comply with anti-bribery laws and regulations or the terms of either settlement agreement, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties as well as further expenses related to an additional internal investigation. Due to our status as a U.S. issuer, we are subject to the FCPA, which prohibits companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. During 2009 and 2010, we conducted an internal review into the nature of certain payments made to an independent third party sales agent in China with respect to sales of our high voltage capacitor products produced by our Swiss subsidiary, Maxwell SA. According to court documents, Maxwell SA, engaged a Chinese agent to sell products in China, and from at least July 2002 through May 2009, paid more than $2.5 million to this agent to secure contracts with Chinese customers. The agent in turn used Maxwell SA’s money to influence officials at state-owned entities in connection with sales contracts. In its books and records, the Company mischaracterized the payments as sales-commission expenses. In January 2011, we reached settlements with the SEC and DOJ with respect to charges asserted by the SEC and DOJ relating to this matter. We settled civil charges with the SEC, agreeing to an injunction against further violations of the FCPA. Under the terms of the settlement with the SEC, we will pay a total of $6.4 million in profit disgorgement and prejudgment interest, in two installments, with $3.2 paid in each of the first quarters of 2011 and 2012. Under the terms of the settlement with the DOJ, we will pay a total of $8.0 million in penalties in three installments, with $3.5 million paid in the first quarter of 2011, 2.3 million paid in the first quarter of 2012, and $2.3 million payable in the first quarter of 2013. As part of the settlement, we entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement (“DPA”) with the DOJ. If we remain in compliance with the terms of the DPA, at the conclusion of the term, the charges against us brought by the DOJ will be dismissed with prejudice. Further, under the terms of the agreements, we will periodically report to the SEC and DOJ on our internal compliance program concerning anti-bribery. Our failure to comply with any terms or conditions of the respective settlement agreements, including, notably, payment obligations or ongoing compliance obligations, could result in additional criminal and/or civil penalties as well as continued expenses related to additional investigations and defense costs for addressing such a default. We depend upon component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. Substantially all of our components and products are manufactured in whole or in part by a few third-party manufacturers. Many of these manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., but are concentrated in a few general locations. We have also outsourced much of our transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce our direct control over production and distribution. Such diminished control could have an adverse effect on the quality or quantity of our products, or our flexibility to respond to changing conditions. In addition, we rely on third-party manufacturers to adhere to the terms and conditions of the agreements in place with each party. For example, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, we may remain responsible to the customer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. 17 Table of Contents To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, we must introduce and commercialize new products successfully as well as adequately educate our prospective customers on the products we offer. Our ability to compete successfully depends heavily on our ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products and technologies to the marketplace. We believe that we are unique in that we are the technology leader for the technologies we deliver and typically must first educate the customer regarding the implementation of our solution in their systems before the customer is capable of designing in our products. As a result, we must make significant investments in research and development efforts as well as sales and marketing efforts, including applications engineering resources. By contrast, many of our competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. If we are unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products or if we are unable to effectively educate the prospective customer on the value proposition offered by the implementation of our products, then our ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be negatively affected and our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The successful management of new market applications and new product introductions will be necessary for our growth. Given our position as the technology leader for the products and solutions we offer, there are a considerable number of new product concepts in the pipeline. Our ability to effectively accurately determine which new products or applications to pursue and which products to abandon will be necessary for us to meet our growth targets and remain competitive within the markets into which we sell our products. There are a number of reasons why a new product concept or market application may be abandoned, including greater than anticipated development costs, technical difficulties, regulatory obstacles, competition, inability to prove the original concept, lack of demand or acceptance, and the need to divert focus, from time to time, to other initiatives with perceived opportunities for better returns. Commercial success frequently depends on being the first provider of the technology to the market, and many of our competitors are also making considerable investments in similar new energy storage technology. Consequently, if we are not able to fund our research and development activities appropriately and deliver new products to the markets we serve on a timely basis, our growth and operations will be harmed. Additionally, as the market leader for the technology markets in which we practice, competitors follow us closely and follow our lead thereby requiring us to move on to the next innovation quickly enough to continue to serve as the market leader for technology. Competition in the energy storage domain has significantly affected, and will continue to affect, our sales. Many companies are engaged in or are starting to engage in designing, developing and producing energy storage solutions as a consequence of the push for clean energy solutions, including, most notably, government funding opportunities associated with pursuing such clean energy solutions. Consequently, more companies are pursuing opportunities in the energy storage domain and such new parties are entering the markets in which we currently do business as competitors. The success of these new competitors could render our existing products less competitive, resulting in reduced sales compared to our expectations or past results. For example, significant amounts of U.S. government funds are being invested in development of batteries with better performance characteristics or lower manufacturing costs than battery technologies currently on the market. An increasing number of parties are submitting proposals for and receiving this government funding and, consequently, these new better-performing batteries that include power delivery functionality could compete for market share with our existing ultracapacitor products. Our success depends largely on the acquisition of, as well as the continued availability and service of, key personnel. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our senior executive management team as well as highly skilled employees in technical, marketing and staff positions. Due to the complexity and immaturity of the technologies involved in the product we produce and the 18 Table of Contents markets we serve, we may be unable to find the right personnel with the background needed to serve our goals and objectives. As the market leader for the technologies we develop, there are limited opportunities to hire personnel from competitors or from companies who have worked closely with similar or identical technology. Consequently, we seek to hire individuals who are capable of performing in an environment where they are expected to create with limited resources and references to past experiences. We may struggle to find such gifted personnel who also thrive in a high growth business atmosphere and who are capable of keeping pace with the fast environment encouraged by the technologies we create and the markets we serve. These uniquely talented personnel are in high demand in the technology industry and competition for acquiring such individuals is intense. Some of our scientists and engineers are the key developers of our products and technologies and are recognized as leaders in their area of expertise. Without first attracting the personnel with the appropriate baseline skill sets and then retaining such personnel, we could fail to maintain our technological and competitive advantage. Our inability to manage rapid growth in personnel, including development and training of such personnel in an immature industry, as well as to map out succession planning, could impede our success. Our business has grown rapidly. This growth has placed, and any future growth would continue to place, a significant strain on our limited personnel, management and other resources. Also, due to the learning curve associated with the immature products and services provided by us and the anticipated rapid growth of our product demands and revenues, we face risks related to managing personnel in such a growth environment. We may fail to accurately gauge the growth in personnel required at the appropriate time without incurring the additional cost and expense of the additional personnel before they are needed. We will also need to determine how to best add this new talent and transfer information and know-how without sacrificing the ongoing demands of the business. For example, each new hire will need to learn quickly about our products and technologies. Since there is limited information available in the public domain, this information will need to be passed from existing personnel to new personnel all while the existing personnel continue to complete their ongoing job duties. Additionally, our ability to grow management talent below the senior executive level will be imperative to achieving our goals. In a smaller organization, the senior executive management team is capable of handling and being involved in several tasks and decision making forums. However, once the Company makes significant progress toward meeting its growth targets, the time constraints will be felt more severely by the senior executive team and some of the tasks they are currently capable of handling on their own will need to be transferred to the management team reporting to them. Accordingly, growing the next level of management and identifying key personnel for succession planning will become critical to our ongoing success. Our success as a reliable supplier to our customers is highly dependent upon our ability to effectively manage our reliance upon certain suppliers of key component parts and specialty equipment. Because we currently obtain certain key components including, but not limited to carbon, binder, separator, paper, aluminum piece parts, die, printed circuit boards and certain finished goods from single or limited sources, we are subject to significant supply and pricing risks. If the particular supplier is unable to provide the appropriate quantity and/or quality of the raw material at the prices required, then we will be unable to produce and deliver our finished goods to customers thereby losing out on revenue generation and, potentially, incurring penalties for failing to timely perform. Additionally, we use some custom components that are not common to the rest of the industries served by our suppliers and which are often available from only one source. Also, when a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the particular supplier’s yield has matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet our unique requirements. If the supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to us, then our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Conversely, diversifying our supplier base to ensure that we have multiple suppliers for each key raw material typically involves additional costs including, but not limited to: higher prices for the raw materials as a direct consequence of purchasing lower volumes from each supplier; additional costs associated with qualifying additional suppliers; and increased resource expense in managing an additional supplier for factors including quality, timely delivery and other standards. If we fail to balance the interests between the reliance upon a single supplier and expense associated with diversifying the supply chain base, then our actual gross profit could fail to meet our targets. Our products and services may experience quality problems from time to time that could result in decreased sales and operating margin. In the case of our ultracapacitor products, we sell relatively new technology which could contain defects in design and manufacture. As a direct consequence of the immaturity of this technology, we are still learning about the technology and its potential quality issues which could arise during operation. Additionally, we are still learning, along with our customers, how the products will operate in the systems into which our customers are incorporating the products. Consequently, we are not always capable of anticipating the defects or quality problems the products are likely to experience in the field. Products sold into high performance environments such as heavy transportation and automotive markets could experience additional operating characteristics that could unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation of our products. With this sometimes limited understanding of the applicability and operation of our products in varying end user applications, we also strive to respond quickly in modifying the products to accommodate such concerns. As such, the release time of next generation products is relatively short thereby forcing us to assume additional risks associated with expediting the release of new or modified products. We are also building our infrastructure to adequately and efficiently handle any potential recall and the reverse logistics involved in returning our products to our facilities in the event that any defects are found. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the products we sell or will be able to efficiently handle all issues related to product returns. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, harm to our reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend claims against us could increase our costs and will not always succeed; any failures could adversely affect sales and profitability and restrict our ability to do business. Intellectual property (“IP”) rights are crucial to our business, particularly for our ultracapacitor and microelectronics product lines. We endeavor to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights which we feel will allow us to obtain or maintain our competitive advantage in the marketplace. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately identify and protect the portions of IP which are strategic to our business. When strategic intellectual property rights are identified, then we will seek formal protection in jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used, jurisdictions in which competitors are producing or importing their products, and jurisdictions into which our products are imported. Different nations may provide limited rights and inconsistent duration of protection for our products. Additionally, we may be unable to obtain protection for our intellectual property in key jurisdictions. For example, the patent prosecution and enforcement system within China is less mature than the systems in other jurisdictions and therefore we may be less able to enforce our rights. Even if protection is obtained, competitors or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, a certain portion of our IP portfolio is related to unique process steps performed during the manufacture of our products and which are not readily recognizable in the physical embodiment of the final product. It may be difficult to identify and prove that a competitor is infringing on our rights to such process steps. Further, we are required to divulge certain of our IP to our business partners to enable them to provide quality product or raw materials to us in order for us to accomplish our business goals. To the extent that such disclosure occurs in 20 Table of Contents China or other jurisdictions in which the ability to protect IP is more limited, we may begin to lose our competitive edge. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technology advancements, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents stemming from pending patent applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance. These patents could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain a license or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We may not be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms. The extent to which we succeed or fail in our efforts to protect our intellectual property will affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to effectively identify, enter into, manage and benefit from strategic alliances, may limit our ability to pursue certain growth objectives and/or strategies. Our reputation is important to our growth and success. As a leader in an emerging technology industry, we recognize the value in identifying, selecting and managing key strategic alliances. We are mainly focusing our business on the specific products we deliver and pursuit of strategic alliances with other companies could allow us to provide customers with integrated or other new products and services derived from the alliances. To be successful, we must first be able to define and identify opportunities which align with our growth plan. Additionally, we cannot be certain that our alliance partners will provide us with the support we anticipate, that such alliance or other relationships will be successful in developing our technology for use with their intended products, or that any alliances or other relationships will be successful in manufacturing and marketing integrated products. Our success is also highly dependent upon our ability to manage the respective parameters of all strategic alliances, promote the benefits to us, and to not prohibit or discourage other opportunities which may be beneficial to us in the future. Also, certain provisions of alliance agreements that are for our benefit may be subject to restrictions of foreign laws that limit our ability to enforce such contractual provisions. Currently, we have alliances with several partners both in the U.S. and throughout the world. We anticipate that future alliances may also be with foreign partners or entities. As a result, such future alliances may be subject to the political climate and economies of the foreign countries where such partners reside and operate. If the strategic alliances we pursue are not successful, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. Should a catastrophic event or other significant business interruption occur at any of our facilities, we could face significant reconstruction or remediation costs, penalties, third party liability and loss of production capacity, which could affect our business. Weather conditions, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could cause significant disruptions in operations. In turn, the quality, cost and volumes of the products we are able to produce and sell will be affected, which will affect our sales and profitability. Natural disasters or industrial accidents could also damage our manufacturing facilities or infrastructure, or those of our major suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs and our ability to meet supply. For example, currently, our sole manufacturing facilities for electrode and microelectronics are located in San Diego, California, an area known for natural wildfires and earthquakes. However, we are in the process of opening a second manufacturing facility for electrode in Peoria, Arizona, which will provide for an alternative manufacturing location in the event we are impacted by a catastrophic event or other significant business interruption at one of our manufacturing locations. Weather conditions, natural disasters or industrial accidents could also affect our manufacturing facilities, or those of our major suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs and our ability to deliver products, or could reduce demand. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing partners and customers. Our business operations are subject to interruption by power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. Such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to produce and deliver products to our customers, including channel partners, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the 21 Table of Contents movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of our manufacturing partners and component suppliers. The majority of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing partners, are in locations that could be affected by natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, losses could be incurred and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. While we may purchase insurance policies to cover the direct economic impact experienced following such a natural disaster, there can no assurance that such insurance policy will cover the full extent of our financial loss nor will it cover losses which are not economic in nature such as, for example only, our business and reputation as a reliable supplier. We may be subject to information technology systems failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing of transactions or reporting of financial results, or causing the unintentional disclosure of confidential information of our own or of our customers. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security, certain data and system redundancy and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that the measures we have implemented to date would be sufficient in the event of a system failure, loss of data or security breach. As a result, in the event of such an event or failure, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to match our production plans for our ultracapacitor products to the level of product actually demanded by customers has a significant effect on our sales, costs and growth potential. Customers’ decisions are affected by market, economic and government regulation conditions which can be difficult to accurately gauge in advance. Failure to provide customers and channel partners with demanded quantities of our products could reduce our sales. Conversely, increased capacity which exceeds actual customer demands for our products increases our costs and, consequently, reduces our profit margins on the products delivered. Although we have implemented policies and procedures for refining the forecasting methods used by customers and a more sophisticated mechanism for gauging the sales pipeline to better project timing of new customer demand, there can be no assurance that these mechanisms will match our production plans with customer demands. Additionally, we are continuing to develop new and improved products, which may require the implementation of new manufacturing processes and equipment lines. As a result of all of these factors, we could fail to meet either revenue or profit margin targets. A substantial percentage of our total revenue depends on the sale of products within a small number of vertical markets and a small number of geographic regions, and the decline in the size of a vertical market or reduction of consumption within a geographic region, could impede our growth and profitability. Sales within a relatively small number of vertical markets and a small number of geographic regions, make up a large portion of our revenues. Our ability to grow our sales within this limited number of markets and regions depends on our ability to compete on price, delivery and quality. For example, our microelectronics products are primarily used within the space industries. Within the space community there are a limited number of customers for our products and each customer represents a significant portion of our revenue. If our relationships with such large customers are disrupted, we could lose a significant portion of our anticipated revenue. Factors that could influence our relationships with our customers include: our ability to sell our products at prices that are competitive with competing suppliers; our ability to maintain features and quality standards for our products sufficient to meet the expectations of our customers; our ability to produce and deliver a sufficient quantity of our products in a timely manner to meet our customers’ requirements; and our financial condition and perceived viability as a long term supplier. Similarly, we currently sell our products into a small number of 22 Table of Contents vertical markets. If a particular market into which we sell experiences a decline, then our customers will decrease their own consumption of our products thereby reducing our revenues. For example, if consumers are no longer accepting of the use of solid state disc drives within their computers, then our direct customers will no longer consume products from us for incorporation into such solid state disc drives. Additionally, as we continue to pursue sales of our products into markets which traditionally have lower margin rates than our current business, for example, the automotive and consumer markets, we may be forced to reduce our margins to remain competitive in these markets. If we continue to pursue these markets and reduce our margins to increase sales, then we could experience degradation in our overall profit margins. Finally, a substantial portion of our revenues stem from sales to customers within a limited number of geographic regions including, notably, China and Germany. Collectively, almost half of our revenues are from customers situated in China or Germany. If certain factors were to arise including, for example, a catastrophic event or shift in economic health and stability within a particular region, then customers within these regions may reduce their consumption of our products resulting in reduced revenues for us. Many of our customers are currently the benefactors of government funding or government subsidies. Our products are currently sold into a limited number of vertical markets which are either directly funded by or partially subsidized with government funding in the respective markets where our customers exist. Our ultracapacitor products provide numerous technology and environmental benefits for many of the applications in which our customers are using these products. As the technology utilized for these devices is still relatively immature, the costs associated with producing the products is high as compared with the current solution used by customers today. However, many government entities have determined that they view certain prevailing interests, including, for example, reduction of pollution, to outweigh the costs associated with incorporating these clean technologies and therefore are willing to allocate government funding to encourage companies, including our customers, to spend additional money to produce goods which reduce pollution or energy consumption. If the government entities elect to change their policy on government subsidies or decide to cancel certain government funding programs, then our customers could cancel or reduce orders for our products. Similarly, our microelectronics and high voltage capacitor products are consumed by markets which are either directly funded by or controlled by the respective government bodies in the jurisdictions where our customers do business. For example, our microelectronics products are used in the space community which is ultimately run by the space agencies of the governments where we do business. Likewise, our high voltage capacitor products are largely used for electric utility infrastructures which are largely controlled by the respective governments supplying power and electricity to its populations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to meet our operating or other needs, which could require us to change our business strategy and result in decreased profitability and a loss of customers. Namely, if we fail to meet the debt covenants imposed by our credit facility, we could lose access to that credit facility. We believe that in the future we will need a substantial amount of additional capital for a number of potential purposes, including the following: • to meet potential production volumes for our products, particularly our ultracapacitors, which may require customized production lines to achieve targeted customer volume and price requirements; • to expand our manufacturing capabilities and develop viable outsourcing opportunities and other production alternatives; • to fund our continuing expansion into commercial markets and compete effectively in those markets; • to develop new technology and cost effective solutions in our business; and • to acquire new or complementary businesses, product lines or technologies. 23 Table of Contents In December 2011, we entered into a credit agreement with Wells Fargo (“Credit Agreement”) which grants us a line of credit and equipment term loan facility, as long as we remain in compliance with various terms and conditions. These term and conditions include certain restrictions and financial covenants, and it is uncertain whether we will be able to meet such financial covenants over the term of the Credit Agreement. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of this Credit Agreement, then the line of credit may be withdrawn, we may be required to immediately repay any outstanding obligation, and the additional funds will not be available to us to fund our growth. In addition, in April 2011, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission to, from time to time, sell up to an aggregate of $125 million of our common stock, warrants or debt securities. In August 2011, the registration statement was declared effective by the SEC, which will allow us to access the capital markets for the three year period following this effective date. There can be no assurance that these additional sources of financing will ultimately be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may be required to change or delay our planned growth, which could result in decreased revenues, profits and loss of customers. Also, the issuance of additional shares will result in dilution to our current stockholders. If additional financing is accomplished by the issuance of debt, the service cost, or interest, will reduce net income or increase net loss, and we may also be required to issue warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with issuing such debt. The issuance of shares of our common stock could result in the loss of our ability to use our net operating losses. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $268 million of U.S. federal tax and state tax net operating loss carryforwards. Realization of any benefit from our tax net operating losses is dependent on: 1) our ability to generate future taxable income and 2) the absence of certain future “ownership changes” to our common stock. An “ownership change,” as defined in the applicable federal income tax rules, would place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset any future taxable income we may generate. Such limitations, in conjunction with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could effectively eliminate our ability to use a substantial portion of our net operating losses to offset any future taxable income. The issuance of shares of our common stock could cause an “ownership change.” Such transactions include the issuance of shares of common stock upon future conversion or exercise of outstanding options. Our stock price continues to be volatile. Our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility due to a number of factors, including but not limited to variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us or our competitors, and uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performance. Furthermore, we believe our stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. If we fail to meet these expectations then our stock price may significantly decline which could have an adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. From time to time, we are involved in major lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes 24 Table of Contents of which may be significant to our results of operations or limit our ability to engage in our business activities. In recognition of these considerations, we may enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our business and materially affect our financial condition and operating results. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover any liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. We have recorded reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the liability to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may be materially different from this estimate. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could prevent certain transactions and could make a takeover more difficult. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. We have a classified board of directors, which means that our directors are divided into three classes that are elected to three-year terms on a staggered basis. Since the three year terms of each class overlap the terms of the other classes of directors, the entire board of directors cannot be replaced in any one year. Furthermore, our certificate of incorporation contains a “fair price provision” which may require a potential acquirer to obtain the consent of our board to any business combination involving us. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay, deter or prevent a merger, tender offer, or other business combination or change in control involving us that stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. This includes offers or attempted takeovers that could result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 