Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if potentially adverse developments, some of which are described below, materialize and cannot be resolved successfully. In any such case, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also result in decreased revenues, increased expenses or other adverse impacts that could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, which may decrease the market value of our common stock. We have a history of losses and cannot predict with certainty when we may become profitable, if ever. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues and we may incur net losses from period to period as a result of a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: • the amounts invested in developing, manufacturing and marketing our products in any period as compared with the volume of sales of those products in the same period; • increasing number of competitors and resulting price competition; • inability to manufacture our products at a level that supports adequate profit margins; • fluctuations in demand for our products by our OEM customers; • the timing of our product introductions may lag behind those of our competitors; • negative impacts resulting from acquisitions we have made or may make; and • future changes in financial accounting standards or practices. In addition, we incur significant costs developing and marketing products based on new technologies and, in order to increase our market share, we have sold, and may in the future sell, our products at profit margins below those we ultimately expect to achieve. Our growth is subject to a number of economic risks which are beyond our reasonable control. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing disruption, including, among other things, volatility in securities prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions such as severely restricted credit and depreciated real estate values. While these market conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies such that our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations might be impaired. Although our total revenues continued to improve in 2009, the current tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services by customers or an increase in operational costs passed along to us by our suppliers. Our global business can also be adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, construction activity, financial strength of customers and government procurement. As a consequence of operating our business in varying currencies, changes in the rate of exchange for the U.S. Dollar against certain major currencies such as the Euro, the Swiss Franc and other currencies may also adversely affect 16 Table of Contents our results. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and the adverse economic conditions that might occur in the U.S. and other countries and the effect such events might have on our business. We might require additional capital to support business growth and operations, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and operations and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new products or enhance our existing products, enhance our operating infrastructure, complete our development activities, continue manufacturing at cost levels that support adequate profit margins and possibly acquire complementary businesses and technologies. In the future we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds to support our operations and investments in new products, if we are unable to finance such activities from the proceeds of our continuing operations. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or other transactions involving securities exercisable or convertible into our equity securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Further, any debt financing may involve restrictive covenants on the company. We face risks selling products internationally which are or may become regulated by the US Government. Some of our products, including primarily our radiation mitigated microelectronic products, are designated a defense article under various Categories of the United States Munitions List thereby regulated by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) which subject the products and associated technology to the export licensing jurisdiction of the Department of State in accordance with the ITAR (22 CFR 120 through 130). This means that all international sales of these controlled products require export licensing, which makes our business more complex and may impact sales as follows: a) approval of the export license may or may not be granted, the latter of which results in a loss of the anticipated sale, b) the time between the receipt of an order and shipment of product may be increased, and c) sales could be reduced or lost entirely due to a customer’s preference of using non-ITAR regulated products. We continue to review the status of our products and their end use applications to determine if additional products will fall within the restrictions of the export control laws and, as such, more products may be subject to the above impacts if such restrictions apply. Additionally, we may be subject to new regulations that might impact sales of products that we sell internationally or domestically. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenues. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a large portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. For example, we have one customer, ABB Ltd., which accounted for approximately 10% of our revenues in 2009. If our relationships with such large customers are disrupted, we could lose a significant portion of our anticipated revenue. Factors that could influence our relationships with our customers include: • our ability to sell our products at prices that are competitive with competing suppliers; • our ability to maintain features and quality standards for our products sufficient to meet the expectations of our customers; • our ability to produce and deliver a sufficient quantity of our products in a timely manner to meet our customers’ requirements; and • our financial condition and perceived viability as a long term supplier. 17 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. As a result of our extensive international operations and significant international revenue, both of which may be transacted in U.S. Dollars and foreign currencies, the U.S. Dollar amount of our current revenues, future revenues, expenses and debt may be materially affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, it could have a substantial impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our large cell ultracapacitors may not gain widespread technological acceptance, which would adversely impact our growth opportunities, and our overall business prospects. We have designed our large cell ultracapacitor products primarily for use in transportation and industrial applications. Currently, most of the major automotive companies are testing and developing alternative power sources to support the power requirements of hybrid drive systems. We believe our ultracapacitors provide an innovative alternative power solution for such applications and we are currently collaborating technically with several automotive suppliers and auto companies regarding designing our ultracapacitors into their future products for these purposes. However, there are other competing technologies such as advanced batteries, compressed gas and hydrolytic fluids some of which have already been established as technologically viable alternatives. Furthermore, there are other ultracapacitors currently sold by other companies which may possess performance characteristics which are on par with or exceed the specification and quality of our ultracapacitor products. We believe that the long-term success of our ultracapacitor products will be determined by our ability to outperform competing technologies, resulting in our ultracapacitors being designed into automotive electrical systems and the next generation of hybrid drive systems. If our ultracapacitor products fail to achieve commercial acceptance in the automotive and other transportation and industrial applications, our future revenues and growth opportunities will be adversely impacted and our overall business prospects will be significantly impaired. We may not be able to develop and market our products successfully, and thus may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. If we are unable to develop and market our products successfully, we may not achieve or maintain profitability. In recent years, we have introduced many of our products into commercial markets and, upon such introductions, we also must demonstrate our capabilities as a reliable supplier of these products. Some of our products are alternatives to established products or provide capabilities that do not presently exist in the marketplace. Our products are sold in highly competitive and rapidly changing markets. The success of our products is significantly affected by their cost, technology standards, performance and reliability and end-user preferences. The success of our products also depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • maintain engineering and marketing staffs sufficiently skilled to identify market opportunities and design the corresponding new products; • identify and develop attractive markets for our new products and technologies and accurately anticipate demand; • utilize appropriate sales and distribution channels; • develop and manufacture new products that we can sell at competitive prices while maintaining adequate profit margins; • deliver products that meet our customers’ requirements for quality and reliability; • increase our manufacturing capacity and improve manufacturing efficiency to meet our customer demands while maintaining quality and performance; • respond to technological changes by successfully improving our existing products and technologies; • demonstrate that our products have technological and/or economic advantages over competing or alternative products; 18 Table of Contents • react to and distinguish ourselves from competitors that are more experienced, have significantly greater resources and have a larger base of customers; and • secure required raw materials in sufficient quantities and at prices required to manufacture and deliver competitive products. If we are unable to secure qualified and adequate sources for our materials, components and sub-assemblies, we may not be able to make our products at competitive costs and we may have difficulty meeting customer demand, which could damage our relationships with our customers. Our ability to manufacture products depends in part on our ability to secure qualified and adequate sources of materials, components and sub-assemblies at prices that enable us to make our products at competitive costs. Some of our suppliers are currently the sole source of one or more items that we need to manufacture our products. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on sole and limited source suppliers, the partial or complete loss of or delay in delivery from these sources could have at least a temporary adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could potentially damage customer relationships if an interruption of or delay in business occurs. Such risks have materialized in the past and there can be no assurance that such supply problems will not recur in the future. Our product lines may be subject to increased competition, and this may limit our ability to increase or maintain our profit margins. Market acceptance of our products depends on competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Competition in our markets is intense and has been accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. Our competitors include large fully-integrated companies with substantial financial and other resources. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, manufacturing, technological, marketing and sales resources than we do, as well as more experience in research and development, product testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales. These organizations also compete with us to: • attract parties for collaborations or joint ventures; • license proprietary technology that is competitive with our technology; and • attract and hire scientific, engineering and marketing talent. Our competitors may succeed in developing and commercializing products earlier than we do. Our competitors may also develop products or technologies that are superior to or lower in cost than ours, thus rendering our products, product candidates or technology obsolete or non-competitive. We may not be able to develop, fund or invest in one or more of our product lines to the same degree or as quickly as these competitors do. If our competitors develop and commercialize products faster than we do, or commercialize products that are superior to or at a lower cost than our products, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated. If we cannot successfully compete with new or existing products, our sales and revenue would suffer and we may never become profitable. If our OEM customers fail to purchase our products or to sell sufficient quantities of their products incorporating our products, or if our OEM customers’ sales timing and volume fluctuates, it could prevent us from achieving our sales and market share goals. Sales to a relatively small number of OEM customers, as opposed to direct retail sales to end customers, make up a large portion of our revenues. For example, we have one customer, ABB Ltd., which accounted for approximately 10% of our revenue in 2009. Our ability to make sales to OEM customers depends on our ability to compete on price, delivery and quality. The timing and volume of these sales depend upon the sales levels and shipping schedules for the products into which our OEM customers incorporate our products. Thus, even if we develop a successful component in sufficient volume and appropriate costs, our sales will not increase unless the 19 Table of Contents product into which our component is incorporated is commercially successful. If our OEM customers fail to sell a sufficient quantity of products incorporating our components, or if the OEM customers’ sales timing and volume fluctuate, it could prevent us from achieving our sales targets and negatively impact our market share. Our OEM customers typically require a long development and engineering process before incorporating our products into their systems and products. This period of time is in addition to the time we spend on basic research and product development. As a result, we are vulnerable to changes in technology or end user preferences. Our opportunity to sell our products to our OEM customers typically occurs at infrequent intervals, depending on when the OEM customer designs a new product or enhances an existing one. If we are not aware of an OEM’s product development schedule, or if we cannot provide components or technologies at the time that they are developing their products, we may miss sales opportunities that may not reappear for some time. We may face product liability or warranty claims, either directly or indirectly through our customers, and we have limited experience with some of our products as to our potential liability. We offer our customers a warranty for our products. Defects in our products could, in turn, lead to defects in our customers’ products that incorporate our products. Defects in our products could give rise to warranty claims against us or to liability for damages including, in certain circumstances, liability for consequential damages. For example, as described elsewhere in this 10-K, in 2005 a customer brought to our attention a possible defect in a product that was produced for Maxwell under contract by another manufacturer and resold to the customer. Maxwell is currently a party to a legal proceeding in Germany that will determine whether or not a defect existed. In the event that it is determined that a defect did exist, Maxwell and/or the manufacturer could be liable to the customer for damages. Defects in our products could also impair market acceptance of our products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have limited experience with some of our products in evaluating the potential liability that could be created by claims under our warranties. If the claims made under such warranties exceed our warranty reserves, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, warranty periods in some foreign countries are mandated by law. Changes in such laws may affect the adequacy of our warranty reserves. A prolonged economic downturn could materially harm our business. Any negative trends in the general economy, including trends resulting from actual or threatened military action by the United States and threats of terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, could cause a decrease in capital spending in the markets we serve. In particular, the current economic downturn affecting the automotive industry, as well as a downward cycle affecting the transportation, industrial, electric utility or aerospace markets would likely result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, if our customers’ own markets and financial performance decline, we may not be able to collect outstanding amounts due to us. Any such circumstances could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, such as in the Peoples Republic of China (PRC), we could lose our competitive advantage in the industry segments in which we do business. Our success depends in part on establishing and protecting our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we could lose our competitive advantage in the industry segments in which we do business. Although we protect our intellectual property rights through patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, contracts and other measures, these steps may not prevent infringement, misappropriation or other misuse by third parties. We have taken steps to protect our intellectual property rights under the laws of certain foreign countries, but our efforts may not be effective to the extent that foreign laws are not as protective as the laws of the U.S. For example, we have licensed technology related to our patented ultracapacitor products to companies located in the PRC. Patent and other intellectual property rights have been traditionally less enforceable in the PRC than in the United States. In addition, we face the possibility that third parties may reverse engineer our products to discover how they work and how they are designed and introduce competing products, or that third parties might independently develop products and intellectual property similar to ours. 20 Table of Contents We have increased our emphasis on protecting our technologies and products through patents. Our success depends on maintaining our patents, adding to them where appropriate, and developing products and applications without infringing the patent and proprietary rights of others. The following risks, among others, are involved in protecting our patents: • our patents may be circumvented or challenged and held unenforceable or invalid; • our pending or future patent applications may not be issued in a timely manner and may not provide the protections we seek; and • others may claim rights in the patented and other proprietary technology that we own or license. If our patents are invalidated or if it is determined that we, or the licensor of a patent, do not hold sole rights to such patent, we could lose our competitive advantage in the industry segments in which we do business. Competing research and patent activity in our product areas is substantial. For example, in October 2006, we filed a lawsuit alleging infringement of four of our patents by NessCap, a Korean competitor, and in December 2006, NessCap filed a lawsuit alleging that one of our products infringes one of NessCap’s patents. We have since settled these lawsuits. Although we do not believe that our products or proprietary rights infringe third parties’ rights, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future. If we are forced to bring such claims or are subject to such claims by others, we face time-consuming, costly litigation that could potentially result in product shipment delays, damage payments or injunctions that could prevent us from making, using or selling infringing products. In addition, such litigation increases our operating expenses and adversely impacts our operating results. We may also be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements which include unfavorable terms as part of a judgment or settlement, all of which could negatively impact the amount of revenue derived from our products or proprietary rights. Our reputation and ability to enter into alliances or other strategic arrangements may affect our success. Our reputation is important to our growth and success. Since we have licensed our technology to others, our reputation may be affected by the performance of the companies to which we have licensed our technology. Our licenses may grant exclusivity with respect to certain uses or geographic areas. For example, we have granted licenses to YEC in Taiwan and Shanghai Sanjiu in China to manufacture and sell products based on our proprietary ultracapacitor designs. As a result, we will be dependent in part on the success of these licensees for success in China. We anticipate that future alliances may also be with foreign partners or entities. As a result, such future alliances may be subject to the political climate and economies of the foreign countries where such partners reside and operate. We cannot be certain that our alliance partners will provide us with the support we anticipate, that such alliances or other relationships will be successful in developing our technology for use with their intended products, or that any alliances or other relationships will be successful in manufacturing and marketing their products. Our international operations also are subject to certain external business risks such as exchange rate fluctuations, political instability or significant weakening of a local economy in which a foreign entity with which we have an affiliation operates or is located. Certain provisions of alliance agreements that are for our benefit may be subject to restrictions in foreign laws that limit our ability to enforce such contractual provisions. If these alliances are not successful our business and prospects could be negatively affected. We face risks associated with marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally and, if we are unable to manage these risks effectively, it could impair our ability to increase sales. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales to customers located outside the U.S. We expect international sales to continue to represent a significant and increasing portion of our future revenue. As a result, our business will continue to be subject to certain risks, such as foreign government regulations, export controls, changes in tax laws, tax treaties, tariffs, freight rates and timely and accurate financial reporting from our international subsidiary. 21 Table of Contents Additionally, as a result of our extensive international operations and significant revenue generated outside the U.S., the dollar amount of our current and future revenues, expenses and debt may be materially affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, it could impair our ability to increase international sales. Similarly, assets or liabilities of our consolidated foreign subsidiary that are not denominated in its functional currency are subject to effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported financial results. We have substantial operations in Switzerland. Having substantial international operations increases the difficulty of managing our financial reporting and internal controls and procedures. In addition, to the extent we are unable to respond effectively to political, economic and other conditions in the countries where we operate and do business, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, changes in the mix of income from our foreign subsidiaries, expiration of tax holidays and changes in tax laws and regulations could increase our tax expense. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we could lose our technological and competitive advantage in some product areas and business segments. Since many of our products employ emerging technologies, our success depends upon attracting and retaining key technical and management personnel. Some of our scientists and engineers are the key developers of our products and technologies and are recognized as leaders in their area of expertise. The loss of such personnel could threaten our technological and competitive advantage in some product areas and product lines. Our performance also depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel, especially key executives, operations staff and highly skilled engineers. The industries in which we compete are characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel in a highly competitive employment market. All of our employees are “at will” and thus may terminate their employment with us at any time. Our ability to increase market share and sales depends on our ability to hire, train and retain qualified marketing and sales personnel. Because many of our products are new, we have limited experience marketing and selling them. To sell our products, our marketing and sales personnel must demonstrate the advantages of our products over competing products, and we must be able to demonstrate the value of new technology in order to sell new products to existing and new customers. The highly technical nature of the products we offer requires that we attract and retain qualified marketing and sales personnel, and we may have difficulty doing that in a highly competitive employment market. Also, as part of our sales and marketing strategy, we enter into arrangements with distributors and sales representatives to sell our products, and it is possible that our arrangements with outside distributors and sales representatives may not be successful. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, redundancy and backup, our internal information technology networking systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Additionally, from time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. To the extent such systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruption to our business, including our ability to report operating results on a timely basis. 22 Table of Contents Changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may affect how we conduct our business and affect our reported results of operations. Changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. Also, changes from U.S. GAAP to International Financial Reporting Standards, and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Compliance with changing regulations of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Market rules, have created significant additional expenses for public companies. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significantly increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time to such compliance activities. Our efforts to comply with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations have required significant effort and resources, and resulted in significant cost to us. These efforts and expense are further increased because of our substantial international operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could prevent certain transactions and could make a takeover more difficult. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. We have a classified board of directors, which means that our directors are divided into three classes that are elected to three-year terms on a staggered basis. Since the three year terms of each class overlap the terms of the other classes of directors, the entire board of directors cannot be replaced in any one year. Furthermore, our certificate of incorporation contains a “fair price provision” which may require a potential acquirer to obtain the consent of our board to any business combination involving us. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay, deter or prevent a merger, tender offer, or other business combination or change in control involving us that stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. This includes offers or attempted takeovers that could result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares of our common stock. Our common stock experiences limited trading volume and our stock price has been volatile. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. The trading volume of our common stock each day is relatively low. This means that sales or purchases of relatively small blocks of stock can have a significant impact on the price at which our stock is traded. We believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in financial results, announcements of new technologies impacting our products, announcements by competitors or changes in securities analysts’ recommendations could cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions such as recessions or higher interest rates, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents If the investors in our December 2005 financing convert their notes or exercise their warrants, it will have a dilutive effect upon our stockholders. In December 2005 we issued notes and warrants to an institutional investor. Pursuant to the terms of the notes, the holders of such notes may convert the notes into shares of common stock at any time prior to their maturity at the conversion price (currently $16.22 per share), subject to adjustment upon specified events, including a price-based weighted average anti-dilution provision, and further subject to adjustment for stock splits, combinations or similar events specified in the notes. Subject to certain conditions, we can automatically convert the notes into our common stock at the conversion price. Unless our shares of common stock trade at or above a weighted-average price of 115% of the original conversion price ($19.00 per share), we will be obligated to repay equal portions of the principal amount outstanding under the notes on a quarterly basis beginning two (2) years after the date of original issuance, provided that the holder may defer the receipt of any such payment for a period of up to two (2) years. As part of the transaction, we also issued to such investors warrants to purchase up to an additional 430,540 shares of our common stock at the conversion price, subject to anti-dilution provisions similar to the provisions set forth in the notes, and further subject to adjustment for stock splits, combinations or similar events. The warrants became exercisable immediately after the closing date of the private placement and expire in December 2010. If the investor converts the notes or exercises the warrants, we will issue shares of our common stock and such issuances will be dilutive to our stockholders. Because the conversion price may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with the provisions of the notes and the warrants, the number of shares that could actually be issued may be greater than the amount described above. In addition, if such institutional investors or our other stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market during a short period of time, our stock price may decline significantly. We substantially increased our outstanding indebtedness with the issuance of certain subordinated convertible notes and we will be required to repay the outstanding balance in 2011. In December 2005 we issued notes in the aggregate principal amount of $25 million in a private placement to an institutional investor, of which $8.3 million in principal amount remains outstanding. The notes accrue interest at a per annum rate equal to the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the notes) plus 1.125%, subject to adjustment, with accrued interest payable quarterly. By issuing the notes we increased our indebtedness substantially. In addition, the holders of the notes have imposed certain restrictive covenants, including limits on our future indebtedness and limits on our ability to incur future liens and make certain restricted payments. Upon a change of control (as defined in the notes), the holders of the notes will have certain redemption rights. An event of default would occur under the notes for a number of reasons, including our failure to pay when due any principal, interest or late charges on the notes, certain defaults on our indebtedness, certain events of bankruptcy and our breach or failure to perform certain representations and obligations under the notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our obligations under the notes may become due and payable in accordance with the terms thereof. As a result, the issuance of the notes may or will: • make it more difficult for us to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes; • make it more difficult for us to be acquired; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or industry conditions. 24 Table of Contents Our credit agreements contain various restrictions and covenants that limit management’s discretion in the operation of our business and could limit our ability to grow and compete. The credit agreements governing our bank credit facilities contain various provisions that limit our ability to: • incur additional debt; • make loans, pay dividends and make other distributions; • create certain liens on, or sell, our assets; • merge or consolidate with another corporation or entity, or enter into other transactions outside the ordinary course of business; and • make certain changes in our capital structure. These provisions restrict management’s ability to operate our business in accordance with management’s discretion and could limit our ability to grow and compete. Our credit agreements also require us to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. If we fail to comply with any such financial covenants or ratios, or otherwise default under our credit agreements, the lenders under such agreements could: • accelerate and declare all amounts borrowed to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; and • terminate their commitments, if any, to make further extensions of credit to us and/or attempt to secure collateral. In the event that amounts due under our credit agreements are declared immediately payable, we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make such accelerated payments. We may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to meet potential customer demand or corporate needs, which could require us to change our business strategy and result in decreased profitability and a loss of customers. We believe that in the future we will need a substantial amount of additional capital for a number of purposes, including the following: • to meet potential production volumes for our products, particularly our ultracapacitors, which may require high-speed automated production lines to achieve targeted customer volume and price requirements; • to expand our manufacturing capabilities and develop viable outsource partners and other production alternatives; • to fund our continuing expansion into commercial markets and compete effectively in those markets; • to develop new technology and cost effective solutions in our business; and • to acquire new or complementary businesses, product lines and technologies. During 2007, we raised approximately $26.6 million (net of offering expenses) through the sale of our common stock pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3. In August 2008, we entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement (“EDA”) with UBS Securities LLC (“UBS”). The EDA provides that we may offer and sell shares of our common stock, par value $0.10 per share, having an aggregate offering price of up to $15 million. During 2008, we raised approximately $5.6 million (net of commissions) under the EDA. During 2009, we raised approximately $18.6 million (net of offering expenses) through the sale of our common stock pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 and $2.4 million (net of commissions) under the EDA. We have currently suspended any further sales under the EDA. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be 25 Table of Contents available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may be required to change or delay our planned growth, which could result in decreased revenues, profits and a loss of customers. The issuance of additional shares will result in dilution of our current stockholders. Further, if additional financing is accomplished by the issuance of debt, the service cost, or interest, will reduce net income or increase net losses and may also require the issuance of additional warrants to purchase shares of common stock. The issuance of shares of our common stock could result in the loss of our ability to use our net operating losses. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $237 million of federal tax and state tax net operating loss carryforwards. Realization of any benefit from our tax net operating losses is dependent on: 1) our ability to generate future taxable income and 2) the absence of certain future “ownership changes” of our common stock. An “ownership change,” as defined in the applicable federal income tax rules, would place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset any future taxable income we may generate. Such limitations, in conjunction with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could effectively eliminate our ability to use a substantial portion of our net operating losses to offset any future taxable income. The issuance of shares of our common stock could cause an “ownership change.” Such transactions include the issuance of shares of common stock upon future conversion or exercise of outstanding options, warrants and convertible preferred stock. Our international operations are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations thereunder we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to the FCPA, which prohibits companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. As a result of an internal review, we are currently conducting an inquiry into the nature of certain payments made to our former independent sales agent in China with respect to sales of our high voltage capacitor products produced by our Swiss subsidiary. These payments equaled the difference between our quoted price for certain products and the amount that the independent sales agent was able to sell such products to certain customers in China. These payments had previously been recorded as commissions; however, a portion of those payments may actually have been rebated directly or indirectly to customers. We recorded commissions to the agent of $585,000, $1.8 million and $653,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These commissions were based on sales of $3.1 million, $8.2 million and $3.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts are recorded as a reduction to revenue for the periods presented. In 2008, these amounts were recorded as commission expense and were included in selling, general and administrative expense in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. This independent sales agent also worked as an independent sales agent for Metar (see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8 of this report). We terminated our relationship with this independent sales agent as of May 20, 2009. We are in the process of evaluating how these payments should be treated for FCPA purposes, which could harm our business. Our internal review is focused on a thorough examination of all of our international operations and business practices, as well as a review of our compliance programs. We have taken certain remedial actions, including terminating our relationship with the independent sales agent in China as well as terminating our relationship with Metar, which could harm our business. We have not yet completed our internal review. As we progress, we are voluntarily sharing information related to our internal review with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and have provided certain documents as requested by the SEC in connection with their review of this matter. In the event that our internal review or any governmental investigation identifies violations of law, the DOJ, the SEC or other governmental authorities could seek civil and/or criminal sanctions, including monetary fines and penalties, against the Company and/or its employees, as well as additional changes to our business practices and compliance programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 26 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2009 and in connection with our internal review of the matters described above, we recorded an accrual of $9.3 million for the potential settlement with the SEC and DOJ. The amount we recorded was based on our estimation of loss as required under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and discussions with both government agencies. These discussions have resulted in our estimate of a potential settlement range of $9.3 million to $20.0 million. The top end of the range of $20.0 million represents the combined first offer of settlement recently put forth by the relevant governmental agencies. Discussions with the SEC and DOJ are ongoing in an effort to resolve these matters, but whether agreement can be reached and on what terms, is uncertain. The amount of any disgorgements, penalties and/or fines that we could face depends on a number of eventual factors which are not currently known to us or have not yet been resolved with the relevant government authorities, including findings by relevant authorities regarding the amount, nature and scope of any improper payments, the amount of any pecuniary gain involved, our ability to pay, and the level of cooperation provided to government authorities during the investigations. There can be no assurance that a settlement will be reached at all, or that any final settlement amount will not be more or less than our accrual of $9.3 million. Actual payments to the government agencies in connection with any settlement could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 