Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 2 CAUTION REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Phase III Medical, Inc. (the "Company"), or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. When used in this Annual Report, statements that are not statements of current or historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words "plan," "intend," "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," or "continue" or similar expressions or other variations or comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Additionally, statements concerning the Company's ability to develop the adult stem cell business, the future of regenerative medicine and the role of adult stem cells in that future, the future use of adult stem cells as a treatment option and the potential revenue growth of such business are forward-looking statements. The Company's ability to enter the adult stem cell arena and future operating results are dependent upon many factors, including but not limited to (i) the Company's ability to obtain sufficient capital or a strategic business arrangement to fund its expansion plans; (ii) the Company's ability to build the management and human resources and infrastructure necessary to support the growth of its business; (iii) competitive factors and developments beyond the Company's control; (iv) scientific and medical developments beyond the Company's control; (v) any adverse effect or limitations caused by government regulation of the business; and (vi) other risk factors discussed in "Business - Risk Factors" contained herein. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Phase III Medical, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Phase III" or the "Company") is currently engaged in the business of operating a commercial autologous (donor and recipient are the same) adult stem cell bank and is pioneering the pre-disease collection, processing and storage of adult stem cells that donors can access for their own present and future medical treatment. The Company's previous business had been providing capital and business guidance to companies in the healthcare and life science industries. On January 19, 2006 the Company consummated the acquisition of the assets of NeoStem Inc., a California corporation ("NeoStem") relating to NeoStem's business of collecting and storing adult stem cells. NeoStem had been a company to which Phase III had been providing business guidance. Effective with the acquisition, the business of NeoStem became the principal business of the Company. The Company now intends to provide adult stem cell processing, collection and banking services with the goal of making stem cell collection and storage widely available, so that the general population will have the opportunity to store their own stem cells for future healthcare needs. The Company also hopes to become the leading provider of adult stem cells for therapeutic use in the burgeoning field of regenerative medicine for potentially addressing heart disease, certain types of cancer and other critical health problems. The Company will attempt to utilize the combined Phase III and NeoStem management teams to develop and expand this business. A marketing and operational plan is being developed to integrate both companies, and a corporate awareness campaign is being prepared. See "- Current Business Operations." Until the NeoStem acquisition, the business of the Company was providing capital and business guidance to companies in the healthcare and life science industries, in return for a percentage of revenues, royalty fees, licensing fees and other product sales of the target companies. Additionally, through June 30, 2002, the Company was a provider of extended warranties and service contracts via the Internet at warrantysuperstore.com. The Company is still engaged in the "run off" of such extended warranties and service contracts. For a discussion of the Company's involvement in such other activities and Company history, see "- Former Business Operations." In 2004, the Company launched its website: WWW.PHASE3MED.COM. The Company's information as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is available via a link on the website as well as at www.sec.gov. 3 CURRENT BUSINESS OPERATIONS On January 19, 2006, the Company through a wholly-owned subsidiary consummated its acquisition of the assets of NeoStem relating to NeoStem's business of collecting and storing adult stem cells, pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement dated December 6, 2005. The purchase price consisted of 5 million shares of the Company's Common Stock, plus the assumption of certain enumerated liabilities of NeoStem and liabilities under assumed contracts. The Company also entered into employment agreements with NeoStem's chief executive officer and one of its founders. NeoStem was incorporated in California in July 2002 and from its inception through the acquisition by the Company, was engaged in the sale of adult stem cell banking services. In October 2003 NeoStem leased laboratory space in a research facility at Cedars Sinai Hospital in California and entered into an agreement with a third party to provide adult stem cell collection services. By December 2003 NeoStem had outfitted its laboratory with equipment for processing, cryopreservation and storage of adult stem cells. In May 2004, after a validation process and inspection and approval by the State of California, NeoStem received a biologics license and commenced commercial operations. In January 2005 NeoStem moved its adult stem cell processing and storage facility to Good Samaritan Hospital. NeoStem was compelled to cease operations because it did not have sufficient assets to complete the revalidation of the new laboratory and NeoStem's biologics license was suspended. In October, 2005 NeoStem restarted the validation of the laboratory at Good Samaritan Hospital and now the Company is currently seeking a new biologics license from the State of California. Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, NeoStem is obligated to return to the Company (out of the 5 million shares of Common Stock issued) 16,666 shares per day for each day after February 15, 2006 that such biologics license has not been issued. As of March 31, 2006, 733,304 shares of Common Stock are subject to recall. The Company will attempt to develop NeoStem's business into a leader in the adult stem cell field and to capitalize on the increasing importance the Company believes adult stem cells will play in the future of regenerative medicine. The use of adult stem cells as a treatment option for those who develop heart disease, certain types of cancer and other critical health problems is a burgeoning area of clinical research today. The adult stem cell industry is a field independent of embryonic stem cell research. The Company believes that adult stem cell therapies are more likely to be developed before embryonic stem cell therapies due to significant governmental, legal, ethical and technical issues. Medical researchers, scientists, medical institutions, physicians, pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies are currently developing therapies for the treatment of disease using adult stem cells. As these adult stem cell therapies become licensed or become standard of care, patients will need a service which can collect, process and bank their stem cells. The Company intends to provide this service. STEM CELLS Stem cells are very primitive cells that have the unique ability to transform into many different cells, such as white blood cells, nerve cells or heart muscle cells. When collected from adults, stem cells can be found in bone marrow or peripheral blood. Certain processes can cause the stem cells to leave the bone marrow and enter the blood where they can be collected. The Company only works with adult peripheral blood stem cells. PLAN OF OPERATIONS The Company aims to become the leader in autologous adult stem cell banking by developing a profitable service model which would create a source of stem cells that potentially enables physicians to treat a variety of diseases. It is expected that the Company's revenue model will initially consist of four distinct revenue sources: collection fees and storage fees from subscribers; fees derived from a partner collection program to open stem cell collection centers; grants and fees for developing a first responder safety program for certain government agencies, the military, regional and local agencies and fees from diagnostic testing. It also plans to catalogue and store adult stem cells in a biorepository - and as this biorepository grows, it is anticipated there will be revenues derived from B2B relationships with pharmaceutical companies and other stem cell companies developing stem cell therapies. Source of Fees -------------- o The fee structure for subscribers will be an upfront collection fee and an annual storage fee. o The Company plans to initially own and operate collection centers in key metropolitan areas. o The Company plans to partner with qualified operators to open collection centers, in exchange for an upfront fee and ongoing revenues for collection and storage. o The Company intends to present a program to certain governmental agencies and large cities for first responders to bank and store their stem cells. o As a longer term goal, the Company hopes to receive diagnostic testing revenues based upon cell biomarker testing for predictive cardiovascular events. MARKETING The Company intends to embark on a significant marketing, advertising and sales campaign for the purpose of educating physicians and potential clients to the benefits of adult stem cell collection and storage. The essence of the Company's strategy is to reach the end-customers as quickly as possible and to accelerate the adoption curve of our service. In addition, the Company plans to utilize marketing resources to develop and expand a stem cell collection partner program. 4 Several consumer segments may recognize and experience the long-term benefits from banking their own stem cells. These include: o Individuals with a family history of serious diseases, i.e., diabetes, heart disease, or cancer o Wellness and regenerative medicine communities o Families who have already banked the umbilical cord blood from their newborns o Patients diagnosed with cancer, cardiovascular disease, or diabetes. The Company expects its marketing efforts to be designed to educate physicians on the benefits both of referring their adult patients to the Company for stem cell banking and participating in our partner collection program. Thus, it is expected that revenue will be generated in three stages, targeting and/or promoting the following: Stage One o Wellness Physicians to refer patients to the Company for collection and banking the client's stem cells. o Partner Program to expand the opening of collection centers and increase the number of specimens being banked. o Cardiology Market by selective use of clinical experience trials with key interventional cardiologists throughout the United States. o Stem Cell Therapies currently used by medical professionals and hospitals or those who are developing new therapies. o Patients at Risk for cancer, heart disease, etc, through medical professionals, advertising, marketing and public service announcements. Stage Two o Safety programs for first responders and expand relationships with government agencies and initiatives by partnering with bio-defense companies and certain government agencies. o Diagnostic Testing program for a new biomarker for cardiac impairment. Stage Three o B2B Relationships relating to the use of the stem cell biorepository with biotechnology, pharmaceutical and stem cell research companies. The Company expects to hire an experienced medical service marketing executive and a premier marketing and public relations company specializing in medical service related businesses. 5 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We are seeking patent protection for our proprietary technology. The Company acquired two patent applications which had been submitted by NeoStem and are pending, which are of material importance to our business. The first patent addresses the process by which we prepare and store stem cells derived from adult peripheral blood following mobilization of the stem cells from the bone marrow. The second patent contains a number of claims relating to, among other things, the use of stored stem cells to form the basis for medical information that will provide statistics on the etiology of disease, and the use of stem cells in the treatment of infectious diseases and breast cancer. The patent position of biotechnology companies generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we can obtain patents to protect our own technologies; obtain licenses to use the technologies of third parties if necessary, which may be protected by patents; protect our trade secrets and know-how; and operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others. There can be no assurance of our success in this regard. COMPETITION For a description of matters relating to competition, please see "Item 1A - Risk Factors - Risks Related to Competition." PRIOR RELATIONSHIP WITH NEOSTEM On March 31, 2004, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement to assist NeoStem in finding uses of and customers for NeoStem's services and technology. The Company's initial efforts concentrated on developing programs utilizing NeoStem's services and technology through government agencies. That agreement was terminated as a result of the NeoStem acquisition. On September 9, 2005, the Company signed a revenue sharing agreement with NeoStem pursuant to which the Company had agreed to fund NeoStem certain amounts to pay pre-approved expenses and other amounts based on a formula relating to the Company's ability to raise capital. Once funded, NeoStem would pay the Company monthly based on the revenue generated in the previous month with a minimum payment due each month. That agreement was also terminated as a result of the NeoStem acquisition. FORMER BUSINESS OPERATIONS HISTORY The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in September 1980 under the name Fidelity Medical Services, Inc. On July 28, 1983 the Company changed its name to Fidelity Medical, Inc. From its inception through March 1995, the Company was engaged in the development and sale of medical imaging products through a wholly owned subsidiary. As a result of a reverse merger on March 2, 1995 with Corniche Distribution Limited and its subsidiaries, the Company was engaged in the retail sale and wholesale distribution of stationery and related office products in the United Kingdom. Effective March 25, 1995 the Company sold its medical imaging products subsidiary. On September 28, 1995 the Company changed its name to Corniche Group Incorporated. In February 1996, the Company's United Kingdom operations were placed in receivership by creditors. Thereafter through March 1998 the Company was inactive. On March 4, 1998, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with certain individuals (the "Initial Purchasers") whereby the Initial Purchasers acquired in aggregate 765,000 shares of a newly created Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock. Thereafter the Initial Purchasers endeavored to establish for the Company new business operations in the property and casualty specialty insurance and warranty/service contracts markets. On September 30, 1998 the Company acquired all of the capital stock of Stamford Insurance Company, Ltd. ("Stamford") and commenced operation of a property and casualty insurance business. Stamford provided reinsurance coverage for one domestic insurance company until the fourth quarter of 2000 when the relationship with the carrier was terminated. On April 30, 2001 the Company sold Stamford and was no longer involved in property and casualty specialty insurance. In January 2002, the Company entered into a Stock Contribution Exchange Agreement, as amended (the "Exchange Agreement"), with StrandTek International, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("StrandTek"), certain of StrandTek's principal shareholders and certain non-shareholder loan holders of StrandTek (the "StrandTek Transaction"). Certain condition to closing were not met, and the Exchange Agreement was formally terminated by the Company and StrandTek in June 2002. In January 2002, the Company advanced to StrandTek a loan of $1,000,000 on an unsecured basis, which was personally guaranteed by certain of the principal shareholders of StrandTek and a further loan of $250,000 in February 2002 on an unsecured basis. StrandTek defaulted on the payment of $1,250,000 plus accrued interest due to the Company in July 2002. As a result, the Company commenced legal proceedings againt StrandTek and the guarantors to recover the principal, accrued interest and costs of recovery and in May 2003 was granted a final judgment in the amount of $1,415,622 from each corporate defendant, in the amount of $291,405 against each individual defendant and dismissing defendants' counterclaims. The legal action concluded with the Company receiving payments from the guarantors totaling approximately $987,000 in 2003. 6 WARRANTYSUPERSTORE.COM INTERNET BUSINESS The Company's primary business focus through June 2002 was the sale of extended warranties and service contracts over the Internet covering automotive, home, office, personal electronics, home appliances, computers and garden equipment. While the Company managed most functions relating to its extended warranty and service contracts, it did not bear the economic risk to repair or replace products nor did it administer the claims function, all of which obligations rested with the Company's appointed insurance carriers. The Company was responsible for marketing, recording sales, collecting payment and reporting contract details and paying premiums to the insurance carriers. The Company commenced operations initially by marketing its extended warranty products directly to the consumer through its web site, and as a result of the development of proprietary software by January 2001 had four distinct distribution channels: (i) direct sales to consumers, (ii) co-branded distribution, (iii) private label distribution and (iv) manufacturer/retailer partnerships. During the first half of fiscal 2001, management became concerned by the slow progress being made by its warrantysuperstore.com business and began to evaluate other opportunities. In June 2002, management determined, in light of continuing operating losses, to discontinue its warranty and service contract business and to seek new business opportunities for the Company (see the Strandtek Transaction, above, and Medical Biotech/Business, below). In addition to such activities, the Company has continued to "run off" the sale of its warranties and service contracts. MEDICAL/BIOTECH BUSINESS On February 6, 2003, the Company appointed Mark Weinreb as a member of the Board of Directors and as its President and Chief Executive Officer. Under his direction, the Company entered a new line of business where it provided capital and guidance to companies, in multiple sectors of the healthcare and life science industries, in return for a percentage of revenues, royalty fees, licensing fees and other product sales of the target companies. The Company continued to recruit management, business development and technical personnel, and developed its business model, in furtherance of its business plan. The Company engaged in various capital raising activities to pursue this business, raising $489,781 in 2003 and $1,289,375 in 2004 through the sale of Common Stock and notes. Additionally, in 2003, it received a total of approximately $987,000 from the settlement with the StrandTek guarantors (a significant portion of which was used to pay outstanding liabilities for legal expenses, employment terminations, travel and entertainment expenses and consultants and the balance of which was used for operating expenses and the retirement of certain debt). In 2005 and through March 2006, the Company raised $1,600,000. Such capital raising activities since 2003 enabled the Company to pursue the arrangements with PSI (below) and NeoStem. On July 24, 2003, the Company changed its name to Phase III Medical, Inc., which better described the Company's current business plan. In connection with the change of name, the Company changed its trading symbol to "PHSM" from "CNGI". On December 12, 2003, the Company signed a royalty agreement with Parallel Solutions, Inc. "(PSI") to develop a new bioshielding platform technology for the delivery of therapeutic proteins and small molecule drugs in order to extend circulating half-life to improve bioavailability and dosing regimen, while maintaining or improving pharmacologic activity. The agreement provided for PSI to pay the Company a percentage of the revenue received from the sale of certain specified products or licensing activity. The Company provided capital and guidance to PSI to conduct a proof of concept study to improve an existing therapeutic protein with the goal of validating the bioshielding technology for further development and licensing the technology. The Company paid a total of $720,000 since the inception of the agreement. The agreement also called for the Company to pay on behalf of PSI $280,000 of certain expenses relating to testing of the bioshielding concept, and since inception through December 31, 2005, the Company paid $85,324 of such expenses. In August 2005, the Company received from PSI a letter stating that the proof of concept study under the royalty agreement had been completed and that despite interesting preliminary IN VITRO results, the study did not meet the success standards set forth in the royalty agreement and that PSI had no definitive plans to move forward with the program. Phase III requested pursuant to the royalty agreement that additional in vitro studies be performed with other molecules; however PSI was under no obligation to perform any additional studies. If no additional studies were performed under the royalty agreement the likelihood of PSI generating revenues in which the Company would share would have been substantially reduced. At this time the Company does not anticipate any further activity pursuant to the PSI Agreement. 7 In March 2003 and September, 2004, the Company entered into a revenue sharing agreement and joint venture agreement, respectively, with NeoStem. As described above, such agreements were terminated in connection with the NeoStem acquisition. On June 16, 2005, the Company signed a revenue sharing agreement with Healthwave, a medical billing company that utilizes advanced, proprietary technology and connectivity to improve the efficiency of paper-and labor-intensive routines of healthcare transaction processing. Under the agreement, Phase III was to fund Healthwave certain amounts and to provide guidance to them principally relating to developing and marketing Healthwave's healthcare transaction processing services. In return, Healthwave was to pay Phase III on a monthly basis a portion of its gross revenues. Performance under the agreement was contingent upon certain conditions, and has not been pursued by either party. EMPLOYEES As of March 15, 2006, the Company had seven employees. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY RISKS FACING THE COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT THE COMPANY DOES NOT YET KNOW OF OR THAT IT CURRENTLY THINKS ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR ITS BUSINESS OPERATIONS. IF ANY OF THE RISKS OCCUR, ITS BUSINESS STRATEGY, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL CONDITION AND COMMON STOCK WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES. Since its inception in 1980, the Company has generated only limited revenues from sales and has incurred substantial net losses of $1,745,039, $1,748,372 and $1,044,145 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company expects to incur additional operating losses as well as negative cash flow from its new business operations until, if ever, it successfully commercializes the collection, processing and storage of adult stem cells. WE HAVE LIQUIDITY PROBLEMS AND OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN IS QUESTIONABLE. At December 31, 2005, the Company had a cash balance of $488,872, a working capital deficiency of $1,245,084 and a stockholders' deficit of $1,817,638. The Company's auditors, Holtz Rubenstein Reminick LLP, have expressed substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern based on its lack of liquidity combined with its history of losses, and it will be more difficult for the Company to raise capital on favorable terms as a result. The financial statements of the Company do not reflect any adjustments relating to the doubt of its ability to continue as a going concern. The Company has from time to time raised capital for its activities through the sale of its equity securities and promissory notes. Most recently, it raised $1,000,000 in gross proceeds from a private sale of equity and convertible debt. The net proceeds enabled the Company to complete the NeoStem acquisition, pay certain outstanding liabilities and provide the Company with working capital to facilitate the development of its new business, but the Company's financial condition still raises substantial doubt about its ability to operate as a going concern. Substantial additional financing is needed. WE WILL NEED SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONAL FINANCING AND WE ARE UNCERTAIN OF OUR ACCESS TO CAPITAL FUNDING. The Company will require substantial capital to fund the Company's current operating plan for its new business, including the payment of the assumed liabilities of NeoStem and other outstanding liabilities. In addition, the Company's cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned because of expenses relating to marketing, advertising, sales, distribution, research and development and regulatory affairs, as well as the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including litigation costs and liabilities. The Company may seek additional funding through public or private financings. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, further dilution to then existing stockholders will result. If additional capital is raised through the incurrence of debt, business could be affected by the amount of leverage incurred. For instance, such borrowings could subject the Company to covenants restricting its business activities, paying interest would divert funds that would otherwise be available to support commercialization and other important activities, and holders of debt instruments would have rights and privileges senior to those of equity investors. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, it may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some of its planned activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business. The Company is currently exploring capital-raising opportunities, however there can be no assurance that it will be successful or that sufficient capital will be raised. 8 WE WILL CONTINUE TO EXPERIENCE CASH OUTFLOWS. The Company continues to incur expenses, including the salary of its President and executive officers, rent, legal and accounting fees, insurance and general administrative expenses, and was in arrears for certain of these expenses as of December 31, 2005. The Company's new business activities are in the development stage and will therefore result in additional cash outflows in the coming period. It is not possible at this time to state whether the Company will be able to finance these cash outflows or when the Company will achieve a positive cash position, if at all. Our ability to become profitable will depend on many factors, including our ability to successfully commercialize the business. We cannot assure you that we will ever become profitable. NeoStem itself had nominal operations and nominal assets at the time of acquisition. From its inception in 2002 through September 30, 2005, NeoStem had aggregate revenues of $25,950, and aggregate losses of $2,357,940. STOCKS TRADED ON THE OTC BULLETIN BOARD ARE SUBJECT TO GREATER MARKET RISKS THAN THOSE OF EXCHANGE-TRADED AND NASDAQ STOCKS The Company's Common Stock currently trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, an electronic, screen-based trading system operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are, for the most part, thinly traded and generally are not subject to the level of regulation imposed on securities listed or traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market or on a national securities exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of our Common Stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to its price. OUR STOCK PRICE COULD BE VOLATILE The price of the Company's Common Stock has fluctuated in the past and may be more volatile in the future. Factors such as the announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by the Company or by the competition, healthcare legislation, trends in the health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results and market conditions for healthcare stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future price of the Company's Common Stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The generally low volume of trading in the Company's Common Stock makes it more vulnerable to rapid changes in price in response to market conditions. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY'S NEW BUSINESS IF THE POTENTIAL OF STEM CELL THERAPY TO TREAT SERIOUS DISEASES IS NOT REALIZED, THE VALUE OF OUR STEM CELL COLLECTION, PROCESSING AND STORAGE AND OUR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS COULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED. The potential of stem cell therapy to treat serious diseases is currently being explored. Other than hematopoietic stem cell transplants, stem cell therapy is not a commonly used procedure and it has not been proven in clinical trials that stem cell therapy will be an effective treatment for diseases other than those currently addressed by hematopoietic stem cell transplants. No stem cell products have been successfully developed and commercialized to date, and none has received regulatory approval in the United States or internationally. Stem cell therapy may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, unintended immune system responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their approval or commercial use. If the potential of stem cell therapy to treat serious diseases is not realized, the value of our stem cell collection, processing and storage and our development programs could be significantly reduced. BECAUSE OUR INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL AND THERAPEUTIC CHANGES, OUR FUTURE SUCCESS WILL MATERIALLY DEPEND ON THE VIABILITY OF THE USE OF STEM CELLS. Our success materially depends on the development of therapeutic treatments and cures for disease using stem cells. The broader medical and research environment for such treatments and cures critically affects the utility of stem cells, the services we offer to the public, and our future success. The use of stem cells in the treatment of disease is subject to potentially revolutionary technological, medical and therapeutic changes. Future technological and medical developments could render the use of stem cells and our services and equipment obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, there can be no assurance that our services will provide competitive advantages over other technologies. If technological or medical developments arise that materially alter the commercial viability of our technology or services, we may be forced to incur significant costs in replacing or modifying equipment in which we have already made a substantial investment prior to the end of its anticipated useful life. Alternatively, significant advances may be made in other treatment methods or in disease prevention techniques which could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the need for the services we provide. The materialization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 WE MAY BE FORCED TO UNDERTAKE LENGTHY AND COSTLY EFFORTS TO BUILD MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR STEM CELL STORAGE SERVICES, THE SUCCESS OF WHICH IS CRITICAL TO OUR PROFITABILITY. THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT THESE SERVICES WILL GAIN MARKET ACCEPTANCE. We anticipate that service fees from the processing and storage of stem cells will comprise a substantial majority of our revenue in the future and, therefore, our future success depends on the successful and continued market acceptance of this service. Broad use and acceptance of our service requires marketing expenditures and education and awareness of consumers and medical practitioners, and the time and expense required to educate and build awareness of our services and its potential benefits could significantly delay market acceptance and our ultimate profitability. The successful commercialization of our services will also require that we satisfactorily address the needs of medical practitioners in order to address potential resistance to recommendations for our services and ultimately reach our potential consumers. No assurances can be given that our business plan and marketing efforts will be successful, that the Company will be able to commercialize its services, or that there will be market acceptance of our services sufficient to generate any material revenues for the Company. ETHICAL AND OTHER CONCERNS SURROUNDING THE USE OF STEM CELL THERAPY MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT REGULATORY APPROVAL OR PUBLIC PERCEPTION OF OUR STEM CELL BANKING SERVICES, THEREBY REDUCING DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES. 10 The use of embryonic stem cells for research and stem cell therapy has been the subject of debate regarding related ethical, legal and social issues. Although our business only utilizes adult stem cells and does not involve the use of embryonic stem cells, the use of other types of human stem cells for therapy could give rise to similar ethical, legal and social issues as those associated with embryonic stem cells. The commercial success of our business will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of stem cell therapy, in general, for the prevention or treatment of human diseases. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Adverse events in the field of stem cell therapy that may occur in the future also may result in greater governmental regulation of our business and potential regulatory delays relating to the approval or licensing of any or all of the processes and facilities involved in our stem cell banking services. In the event that the use of stem cell therapy becomes the subject of adverse commentary or publicity, our business could be adversely affected and the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed. WE OPERATE IN A REGULATED ENVIRONMENT, AND OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE REGULATIONS, REGISTRATIONS AND APPROVALS WOULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Historically, the FDA has not regulated banks that collect and store stem cells. Recent changes, however, require establishments engaged in the recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging or distribution of any Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products (HCT/Ps) or the screening or testing of a cell tissue donor to register with the FDA under the Public Health Service Act as of January 2004. The FDA also adopted rules in May 2005 that regulate current Good Tissues Practices (cGTP). The Company may be or become subject to such registration requirements and regulations, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able, or will have the resources, to comply. Future FDA regulations could also adversely impact or limit our ability to market or perform our services. Additionally, the states in which the Company initially plans to engage in processing and storage activities all currently have licensing requirements with which the Company believes it will need to comply. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain the necessary licensing. Currently, the Company is seeking a new biologics license from the State of California. This process was started by NeoStem in October, 2005 when it restarted the validation of its laboratory at Good Samaritan Hospital. There can be no assurance that the Company will receive this license, or a license from any state in which it plans to maintain a stem cell storage facility. If the Company identifies other states with licensing requirements or if other states adopt such requirements, the Company would also have to obtain such licenses and/or comply with such requirements. We may be required to spend substantial amounts to comply with any such regulations and licensing requirements, as well as any future legislative and regulatory initiatives. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, injunctions, operating restrictions, and civil fines and criminal prosecution. Delays or failure to obtain registrations or licensing would have a material adverse effect on the marketing and sales of our services and impair our ability to operate profitably in the future. 11 OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH LAWS RELATED TO HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COULD MATERIALLY HARM US. We are subject to state and federal laws regulating the proper disposal of biohazardous material. Although we believe we are in compliance with all such applicable laws, a violation of such laws, or the future enactment of more stringent laws or regulations, could subject us to liability, require us to incur costs and/or otherwise have an adverse effect on us. SIDE EFFECTS OF THE COLLECTION PROCESS OR A FAILURE IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OUR CRYOPRESERVATION STORAGE FACILITY OR SYSTEMS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND REPUTATION. To the extent a customer experiences adverse side effects of the collection process, or our cryopreservation storage service is disrupted, discontinued or the performance is impaired, our business and operations could be adversely affected. Any equipment failure that causes a material interruption or discontinuance in our cryopreservation storage of stem cell specimens could result in stored specimens being damaged and unable to be utilized. Adverse side effects of the collection process or specimen damage (including loss in transit to the Company), could result in litigation against us and reduced future revenue to us, which in turn could be harmful to our reputation. Our insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any such adverse side effects or failures in our system or interruptions in our ability to maintain proper, continued, cryopreservation storage services. Any claim of adverse side effects or material disruption in our ability to maintain continued uninterrupted storage systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, equipment failure, break-ins, tornadoes and similar events for which we do not have redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan and may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. 12 WE ARE DEPENDENT ON EXISTING RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS. The Company's process of collecting stem cells involves the injection of a "mobilizing agent" which causes the stem cells to leave the bone marrow and enter into the blood stream. The injection of this mobilizing agent is an integral part of the Company's process. There is currently only one supplier of this mobilizing agent, and we are currently dependent upon our relationship with such supplier to maintain an adequate supply. Although the Company continues to explore alternative methods of stem cell collection, there can be no assurance that any such methods will prove to be successful. We are also using only one outside "collection" service. Although the Company has the ability to perform the collection services itself or through other third parties, any disruption in the relationship with this collection service would cause a delay in the delivery of our services. In order to commercialize our business, we will continue to depend upon our relationship with such companies. In particular, in the event that our supplier is unable or unwilling to continue to produce a mobilizing agent for us (and on commercially reasonable terms), and we are unable to identify alternative methods or find substitute suppliers on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our business. OUR SUCCESS WILL DEPEND IN PART ON ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING EFFECTIVE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIONS. A key aspect of our business strategy is to establish strategic relationships in order to gain access to critical supplies, to expand or complement our development or commercialization capabilities, or to reduce the cost of developing or commercializing services on our own. We currently have strategic relationships with two parties. While we are currently in discussions with others to establish additional relationships and collaborations, there can be no assurance that the Company will enter into such relationships or that the arrangements will be on favorable terms. Even if we do enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms. Furthermore, these arrangements may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive rights or may have other terms that are burdensome to us. If any of our partners terminate their relationship with us or fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization of our services may be substantially delayed. WE DEPEND UPON MANAGEMENT, SCIENTIFIC AND MEDICAL PERSONNEL AND WE MAY FACE DIFFICULTIES IN MANAGING THE GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS. The Company's future performance and success are dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our management, medical and scientific personnel. Furthermore, our future growth will require hiring a significant number of qualified technical, medical, scientific, commercial and administrative personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. If we are not able to continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or achieve our business objectives. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our commercialization and other goals relating to, and we may fail in developing, our new business. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION THE STEM CELL PRESERVATION MARKET HAS AND CONTINUES TO BECOME INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE. Stem cell preservation is becoming an increasingly competitive business. For example, in the established market for cord blood stem cell banking, the growth in the number of families banking their newborn's cord blood stem cells has been accompanied by an increasing landscape of competitors. Our business, which has been more recently developed, already faces competition from other operators of stem cell preservation businesses and providers of stem cell storage services. We understand that LifeStem, a subsidiary of CalbaTech, Inc., desires to be an autologous adult stem cell collection and storage company and focuses on the micro-collection of stem cells and the storage of two different types of stem cells for autologous use. In addition, StemSource, a division of Cytori Therapeutics and Bio-Matrix Scientific Group Inc. each have established a stem cell banking service to process and store stem cells collected from adipose tissue (fat tissue). This type of stem cell banking will require partnering with cosmetic surgeons who perform liposuction procedures. In addition, the Company believes the use of adult stem cells from adipose tissue will require extensive clinical trials to prove the safety and efficacy of such cells and the enzymatic process required to extract adult stem cells from fat. From a technology perspective the ability to expand a small number of stem cells could present a competitive alternative to stem cell banking. The ability to create a therapeutic quantity of stem cells from a small number of cells is essential to using embryonic stem cells and would be desirable to treat patients who can only supply a small number of their own stem cells. There are many biotechnology laboratories attempting to develop stem cell expansion technology, but to date, stem cell expansion techniques are very inefficient and typically the target cells stop dividing naturally, keeping the yield low. However, stem cell expansion could also complement adult stem cell banking by allowing individuals to extend the banking of an initial collection of cells for many applications. 13 In general, we may face competition from companies with far greater financial, marketing, technical and research resources, name recognition, distribution channels and market presence than the Company who are marketing or developing new services that are similar to the services that are now being or may in the future be developed by the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully. In the event that we are not able to compete successfully with our current or potential competitors, it may be difficult for us to grow our revenue and maintain our existing business without incurring significant additional expenses to try and refine our technology, services or approach to our business to better compete, and even then there would be no guarantee of success. WE MAY FACE COMPETITION IN THE FUTURE FROM ESTABLISHED CORD BLOOD BANKS AND SOME HOSPITALS. In addition, future competition may come from several sources including cord blood banks and some hospitals. Cord blood banks such as ViaCord (a division of ViaCell International) or Cryo-Cell International may be drawn to the field because their processing labs and storage facilities can be used for processing adult stem cells from peripheral blood and their customer lists may provide them with an easy access to the market. We estimate that there are 54 cord blood banks in the United States, 29 of which are autologous (donor and recipient are the same) and 25 of which are allogeneic (donor and recipient are not the same). Hospitals that have transplant centers to serve cancer patients may elect to enter some phases of new stem cell therapies. We estimate that there are 110 hospitals in the United States with stem cell transplant centers. All of these competitors may have access to greater financial resources. In addition, other established companies with greater access to financial resources may enter our markets and compete with us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY THERE IS SIGNIFICANT UNCERTAINTY ABOUT THE VALIDITY AND PERMISSIBLE SCOPE OF PATENTS IN THE BIOTECHNOLOGICAL INDUSTRY. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN PATENT PROTECTION. There can be no assurance that the patent applications to which we hold rights will result in the issuance of patents, that any patents issued or licensed to our company will not be challenged and held to be invalid or of a scope of coverage that is different from what we believe the patent's scope to be, or that our present or future patents related to these technologies will ultimately provide adequate patent coverage for or protection of our present or future technologies, products or processes. This could materially and adversely affect the Company and result in our not being able to commercialize our new business. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY FROM INFRINGEMENT BY THIRD PARTIES AND THIRD PARTIES MAY CLAIM THAT WE INFRINGE ON THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. THIS CAN RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE TO US AND MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We will rely upon patent protection, trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, and we typically require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment, consulting or advisory relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop intellectual property competitive to ours. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our processes, services or design around our intellectual property rights. As a result, we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Intellectual property litigation is expensive (particularly for a company of our size), time-consuming, diverts the attention of management and technical personnel and could result in substantial cost and uncertainty regarding our future viability. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection would limit our ability to develop and/or market our services in the future and would likely have an adverse affect on the revenues generated by the sale or license of such intellectual property. Furthermore, any public announcements related to such litigation or regulatory proceedings could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event our technology infringes upon another party's proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party's patent, license alternative technology from another party or otherwise result in limitations in our ability to use the intellectual property subject to such claims. Litigation and patent interference proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of efforts by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such interference proceedings or in patent litigation to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or, as noted above, require us to seek licenses from third parties. If required, the necessary licenses may not be available on acceptable financial or other terms or at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us, in whole or in part, from commercializing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 