Risk Factors Relating to the Merger (above). 48 Risks Related to the Joint Venture Agreement Even if Erye continues to be profitable, NeoStem will be entitled to receive only 6% of the net profits of Erye for a three-year period commencing on the first day of the fiscal quarter after the consummation of the Merger, which could adversely affect NeoStem's results of operations. Upon consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger, NeoStem will own 51% of the ownership interests in Erye, and EET will own the remaining 49% ownership interest. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Joint Venture Agreement, dividend distributions to EET and NeoStem will be made in proportion to their respective ownership interests in Erye; provided, however, that for the three-year period commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter after the Joint Venture Agreement becomes effective, (i) 49% of undistributed profits (after tax) will be distributed to EET and lent back to Erye by EET for use by Erye in connection with the construction of a new plant for Erye; (ii) 45% of the net profit (after tax) will be provided to Erye as part of the new plant construction fund, which will be characterized as paid-in capital for NeoStem's 51% interest in Erye; and (iii) 6% of the net profit will be distributed to NeoStem directly for NeoStem’s operating expenses. There can be no assurance that Erye will continue to be profitable following the consummation of the Merger, if at all, or that NeoStem will ever receive any distributions from Erye whatsoever. Many terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, as well as the location of its operations, limit NeoStem's ability to control major decisions of Erye, which could adversely affect NeoStem's business. Pursuant to the Joint Venture Agreement, Erye's Board of Directors shall be comprised of two individuals designated by EET and three individuals designated by NeoStem; provided, that one of the positions designated by NeoStem shall be assumed by the member of the NeoStem Board of Directors designated by EET. Pursuant to the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, the affirmative vote of all of the Erye Board of Directors is required for several major decisions of Erye including the amendment of the Joint Venture Agreement or Articles of Association of Erye, the termination or dissolution of Erye, increase or reduction of the registered capital of Erye and merger or spin-off of Erye. Pursuant to the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, the affirmative vote of more than 75% of the Erye Board of Directors is required for several major decisions of Erye, including, among others, the disposition of all material assets of Erye, a change of more than 50% of the equity interest in Erye, changes in more than 50% of the directors of Erye within any consecutive 24 month period, decisions on the material strategy and operation and development of Erye and the entrance into related party transactions with Erye's shareholders and their affiliates. In addition, since many of Erye's officers will live outside the United States, it may be difficult for us to exert control over the day-to-day operations of Erye. Some terms of the Joint Venture Agreement limit NeoStem's ability with respect to future acquisitions of and investments in chemical drug manufacturing companies, which could adversely affect NeoStem's business. Pursuant to the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, prior to the investment by NeoStem in any chemical drug manufacturing company that competes directly with the business of Erye, NeoStem must obtain the consent from Erye. NeoStem also must consult with Erye prior to introducing any new small molecule drug in China with respect to whether it can be produced more cheaply or efficiently by Erye. There can be no assurance that Erye will give its consent to NeoStem’s investment in any chemical drug manufacturing company, which could adversely affect the development of NeoStem's business. The income obtained by NeoStem as a shareholder of Erye from the relocation of Erye will be transferred to EET, which could adversely affect NeoStem's results of operations. Pursuant to the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, after the relocation of Erye, the old plant shall cease all its current business and all income in the form of relocation compensation by the government, and total payments generated from any lease or transfer to third party shall be vested in EET, which could adversely affect NeoStem's results of operations. 49 RISKS RELATING TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA We are beginning to pursue business opportunities in China in addition to those contemplated by the Merger Agreement and the Share Exchange Agreement, and it is expected that our business will develop an increasingly significant presence in China. Please consult the “Business Overview” section of this Annual Report, which contains a discussion of our agreement with PCT contemplating a plan for the establishment of a stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation in Beijing; a summary of our plans to create a new WFOE and one or more new limited liability companies in China directed at our efforts to exercise control over the proposed stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation and related research and development activities; and a description of our license agreement with Vincent Giampapa, M.D., F.A.C.S. pertaining to the China territory. Because China’s economy, laws, regulations and policies are different from those typically found in the west and are continually changing, we will face risks including those summarized below: China is a developing nation governed by a one party government and may be more susceptible to political, economic, and social upheaval than other nations. China is a developing country governed by a one-party government. China is also a country with an extremely large population, widening income gaps between rich and poor and between urban and rural residents, minority ethnic and religious populations, and growing access to information about the different social, economic, and political systems to be found in other countries. China has also experienced extremely rapid economic growth over the last decade, and its legal and regulatory systems have changed rapidly to accommodate this growth. These conditions make China unique and may make it susceptible to major structural changes. Such changes could include a reversal of China’s movement to encourage private economic activity; labor disruptions or other organized protests; nationalization of private businesses; internal conflicts between the police or military and the citizenry; and international political or military conflict. If any of these events were to occur, it could shut down China’s economy and cause us to temporarily or permanently cease any operations in China. The PRC’s laws, regulations and policies, and changes to them, may limit the ability of our operations in China to operate profitably, or may prevent our operations in China from functioning at all. Any operations we pursue in China may be heavily regulated by many state, provincial and local authorities. Any operations in China may be subject to the actions of PRC government regulators such as the State Food and Drug Administration (“SFDA”). Government regulations may have a material impact on our operations in China, increase costs and prevent or delay our company in licensing, manufacturing and marketing any products or services we may decide to offer. Any research, development, testing, manufacturing or marketing activities that we engage in may be subject to various governmental regulations in China, including health and drug regulations. Government regulations, among other things, cover the inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental considerations, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In the event we seek to license, manufacture, sell or distribute any products or services, we might need the proper approval from certain government agencies such as the SFDA. The future growth and profitability of any operations in China would be contingent on obtaining the requisite approvals. There is no assurance that we will obtain such approvals. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in governmental policy and interpretation. Any marketing activities we might engage in also may subject us to government regulations with respect to the prices that we intend to charge or any other marketing and promotional related activities. Government regulations may substantially increase our costs for developing, licensing, manufacturing and marketing any products or services, impacting negatively on our operation, revenue, income and cash flow. There could be changes in government regulations applicable to pharmaceutical industries, which changes may adversely affect our business. 50 We are in the process of developing a significant business presence in China. Since this is one of our first ventures into the Chinese market, our operations may be subject to additional risks and uncertainties. Because we do not have any experience in doing business in the PRC, our directors, officers, managers, and employees will be encountering for the first time the economic, political, and legal climate that is unique to the PRC, which may present risk and uncertainties to our operations. Although in recent years the PRC’s government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the PRC’s government. In addition, the PRC’s government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over the PRC’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. There can be no assurance that the PRC’s economic, political or legal systems will not develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, results of operations and prospects. Our activities may be materially and adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the PRC’s government, such as measures to control inflation, changes in the rates or method of taxation and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. If political relations between China and the Unites States or Europe deteriorate, it could cause a downturn in our financial condition; disruptions to our operations; or a less receptive public response to the goods or services we may offer. The relationship between China and the United States and Europe is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Relations may also be compromised if the U.S. or Europe becomes a more vocal advocate of Taiwan or proceeds to sell certain military weapons and technology to Taiwan. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations and Sino-European relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or financial condition. In addition, because of our involvement in the Chinese market, any deterioration in political relations might cause a public perception in the United States or elsewhere that might cause the goods or services we may offer to become less attractive. Because we are not limited to any specific industry, there is no basis for investors in this offering to evaluate the possible extent of any impact on our ultimate operations if relations are strained between China and either the United States or Europe. We may not be able to enforce our rights in China. China’s legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors. In 1982, the National People’s Congress amended the Constitution of China to authorize foreign investment and guarantee the “lawful rights and interests” of foreign investors in the China. However, China’s system of laws in this area is not yet comprehensive. The legal and judicial systems in the China are still rudimentary, and enforcement of existing laws is inconsistent. Many judges in China lack the depth of legal training and experience that would be expected of a judge in a more developed country. Because the China judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that do exist, anticipation of judicial decision-making is more uncertain than would be expected in a more developed country. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws that do exist, or to obtain enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. China’s legal system is based on civil law, or written statutes; a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that must be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of Chinese laws may vary to reflect domestic political changes. 51 PRC laws and regulations that may govern our business operations in China are sometimes vague and uncertain. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business and the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We will be required to comply with certain PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. The laws of China are likely to govern many of our material agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our interests or our material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of certain regions. For example, the system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in China may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements may have a material adverse impact on our operations. If China imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in China could be severely curtailed, which could lead to a significant decrease in the efficiency and/or profitability of our operations in China. While the economy of China has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. If prices for any products or services being developed in China rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, materials or labor, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, China has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. If similar restrictions are imposed, it may lead to a slowing of economic growth. We cannot predict with any certainty the degree to which our line of business will be affected by any slow-down of economic growth. Many industries in China are subject to government regulations that limit or prohibit foreign investments in such industries, which may limit our potential to control certain businesses, acquire specific interests, or partake of particular ventures. The Chinese government has imposed regulations in various industries, such as publishing, media, market research, medical research (including the stem cell business) and social research industries, that would limit foreign investors’ equity ownership or prohibit foreign investments altogether in companies that operate in such industries. As a result, the range of new business ventures or the nature of investment opportunities available to us may be limited. The laws and regulations governing the stem cell therapy industry in China are developing and subject to future changes. Future PRC laws may impose conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, which could materially and adversely affect our business. As the stem cell therapy industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the stem cell therapy industry. There is no way to predict the content or scope of applicability of future Chinese stem cell regulation. There can be no assurances that in the future the PRC government authorities will not issue laws or regulations which may impose conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 52 The import into China or export from China of technology relating to stem cell therapy may be prohibited or restricted. The Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) and Ministry of Science and Technology of China (MOST) jointly publish the Catalogue of Technologies the Export of which from China is Prohibited or Restricted, and the Catalogue of Technologies the Import of which into China Prohibited or Restricted. Stem cell related technologies are not listed in the current versions of these catalogues, and therefore their import or export should not be forbidden or require that approval MOFCOM and MOST. However, these catalogues are subject to revision and, as the PRC authorities develop policies concerning stem cell technologies, it is possible that the categories would be amended or updated should the Chinese government want to regulate the export or import of stem cell related technologies to protect material state interests or for other reasons. Should the catalogues be updated so as to bring any activities of the planned stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation in Beijing and related research and development activities under their purview, any such limitations or restrictions imposed on the operations and related activities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If China enacts regulations that reach a greater number of industry segments so as to forbid or restrict foreign investment, our ability to consummate business combinations or enter into business transactions could be severely impaired. Many of the rules and regulations that companies face in China are not explicitly communicated. If new laws or regulations forbid foreign investment in industries in which we want to complete a business combination, the laws could severely impair our choice of candidate pool of potential target businesses. Additionally, if the relevant Chinese authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: · levying fines; · revoking our business and other licenses; · requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and · requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. Additionally, the business relationships we establish in China will be subject to PRC interpretations of the applicability of PRC law to our particular business arrangements. Recent changes in China’s currency policies may cause our ability to succeed in the international markets to be diminished. Historically, China “pegged” its currency to the United States dollar. This meant that each unit of Chinese currency had a set ratio for which it could be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. Many countries argued that this system of keeping the Chinese currency low when compared to other countries gave Chinese companies an unfair price advantage over foreign companies. Due to mounting pressure from outside countries, China recently reformed its economic policies to establish a floating value. As a result of this policy reform, Chinese-based operations may be adversely affected since the competitive advantages that existed as a result of the former policies will cease. We cannot assure you that our interests in China will be able to compete effectively with the new policies in place. 53 Anti-inflation measures may be ineffective or harm our ability to do business in China. In recent years, the PRC government has instituted anti-inflationary measures to curb the risk of an overheated economy characterized by debilitating inflation. These measures have included devaluations of the renminbi, restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for some international transactions. These austerity measures may not succeed in slowing down the economy’s excessive expansion or control inflation, or they may slow the economy below a healthy growth rate and lead to economic stagnation or recession; in the worst-case scenario, the measures could slow the economy without curbing inflation. The PRC government could adopt additional measures to further combat inflation, including the establishment of price freezes or moratoriums on certain projects or transactions. Such measures could harm the economy generally and hurt our business by limiting the income of our customers available to spend on our services, by forcing us to lower our profit margins, and by limiting our ability to obtain credit or other financing to pursue our expansion plans or maintain our business. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you and could adversely affect our ability to provide our services in China. Any WFOE structure we establish would be subject to the uncertainties of applicable PRC law. WFOE’s are subject generally to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, to laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements governing economic matters are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors and entities, including you and us, such as the right of foreign-invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits. As the PRC legal system matures, changes in its legislation or interpretation of its legislation may adversely affect our ability to provide our services and any associated products in China. Regulations relating to the transfer of state-owned property rights in enterprises may increase the cost of any acquisitions or transactions, and may therefore impose an additional administrative burden on us. The legislation governing the acquisition of a China state-owned company contains stringent governmental regulations. The transfer of state-owned property rights in enterprises must take place through a government approved “state-owned asset exchange,” and the value of the transferred property rights must be evaluated by those Chinese appraisal firms qualified to do “state-owned assets evaluation.” The final price must not be less than 90.0% of the appraisal price. Additionally, bidding/auction procedures are essential in the event that there is more than one potential transferee. In the case of an acquisition by foreign investors of state-owned enterprises, the acquirer and the seller must make a resettlement plan to properly resettle the employees, and the resettlement plan must be approved by the Employees’ Representative Congress. The seller must pay all unpaid wages and social welfare payments from the existing assets of the target company to the employees. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to acquire a state-owned business or assets. In the event that our future expansion creates a scenario where certain directors and/or officers will live outside the United States and a significant portion of our assets will be located outside the United States, investors may not be able to enforce federal securities laws or their other legal rights. Future expansion may require that many of our directors and/or officers will reside outside of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets may be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult, or in some cases not possible, for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon certain of our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties against our directors and officers pursuant to United States laws. 54 Cultural, language and managerial differences may result in the reduction of our overall performance. While Chinese mergers and acquisitions are increasing in frequency, assimilating cultural, language and managerial differences remains problematic. Friction may result due to the consolidation of management teams from different cultural backgrounds. In addition, errors arising through language translations may cause miscommunications relating to material information, which could adversely affect our business operations. These factors may make the management of our operations in China more difficult. Political instability in China could harm our business. We may target or have associations with businesses in China that have operations associated with developing countries in Asia where political, economic and social transition is taking place. Some Asian countries, including China, have experienced political instability, expropriation or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, acts of war and insurrections. Any of these conditions occurring could disrupt or terminate our operations, causing our operations to be curtailed or terminated in these areas or our operations to decline and could cause us to incur additional costs. Ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of stem cell therapy may increase the regulation of or negatively impact the public perception of our stem cell services, thereby reducing demand for our services. The use of embryonic stem cells for research and stem cell therapy has been the subject of debate regarding related ethical, legal and social issues. The Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Health of the PRC issued “The Ethical Guiding Principles for the Research of Human Embryonic Stem Cell” on December 24, 2003, which are formulated for the purpose of aligning the research of human embryonic stem cell in the biomedical field in China with the ethical criterion of life, ensuring the respect and observance of internationally recognized ethical standards of life and the relevant provisions of our country, as well as promoting the healthy development of the research on human embryonic stem cell. According to the Ethical Guiding Principles, all those engaging in activities concerning the research of human embryonic stem cell within the territory of PRC shall abide by the present Guiding Principles, according to which, any research on reproductive cloning is prohibited, and no human gamete, germ cell, embryo or fetus tissues may be bought or sold. Although our business does not involve the more controversial use of embryonic stem cells, the use of other types of human stem cells for therapy could give rise to similar ethical, legal and social issues as those associated with embryonic stem cells. Additionally, it is possible that our business could be negatively impacted by any stigma associated with the use of embryonic stem cells if the public fails to appreciate the distinction between the use of adult versus embryonic stem cells. The commercial success of our business will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of stem cell therapy, in general, for the prevention or treatment of human diseases. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe or unnecessary, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Public pressure or adverse events in the field of stem cell therapy that may occur in the future also may result in greater governmental regulation of our business creating increased expenses and potential regulatory delays relating to the approval or licensing of any or all of the processes and facilities involved in our stem cell banking services. In the event that the use of stem cell therapy becomes the subject of adverse commentary or publicity, our business could be adversely affected and the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed. 55 In the event we consummate our plans to establish the stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation in Beijing and related research and development activities, and the government of the PRC determines that the arrangements that establish any new WFOE structure implemented for conducting these operations do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the relevant industry, or if the structure is not compatible with PRC laws regarding foreign investment generally, we may be subject to severe consequences and penalties, and we may be precluded from launching any such new operation. As noted in the “Business Overview” section of this Annual Report, we are planning the launch of a stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation in Beijing as well as related research and development activities. However, any such development would be dependent upon our establishing a new WFOE and one or more new China-based limited liability companies. Any such new WFOE would be classified as a foreign-invested enterprise. Because various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign-invested entities from holding certain licenses and controlling businesses in certain industries, we would be required to rely on the contractual relationships memorialized in the relevant VIE Documents to obtain benefits from the business, personnel, and financial affairs of any new stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation in Beijing and related research and development activities. Our ability to lease the premises for a new facility, to hire personnel, to purchase lab equipment, to seek government grants, and to transfer certain of our intellectual property and “know how” to a new facility, would all depend upon the functionality of the VIE Documents and upon the application of PRC law to the structure of any new WFOE. The PRC laws and regulations governing business entities are often vague and uncertain. Despite the uncertainties associated with the application of PRC law, a structure involving a WFOE, together with the contractual arrangements under the VIE Documents, has been implemented successfully where foreign-invested entities have participated in controlling PRC entities engaged in “restricted businesses.” However, should a facility we establish be deemed to engage in a “prohibited business,” there would be a particular lack of clarity as to the application of PRC law. Given the lack of clarity in PRC law, if we were to be found in violation of any existing or future PRC laws, regulations, and/or circulars, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income, revoking business and/or operating licenses, requiring us to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations, and requiring us to discontinue all or any portion of our operations in the PRC. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws, regulations and/or circulars. As we proceed to establish the stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation in Beijing, any new WFOE’s contractual arrangements with the facility and its equity owners, as memorialized in the VIE documents, may not be as effective in providing benefits from the facility as direct ownership of the facility. In the event the stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation and related research and development activities is established, substantially all of the business, as well as substantially all of our revenues from the operation, would be directed by means of the WFOE, through contractual arrangements with the facility and its equity owners and any other limited liability company set up in connection with these activities that would provide us with benefits from the facility. We would depend on the facility to enter into a lease agreement for the premises; hire employees; purchase laboratory equipment; seek government funding; and hold certain of our intellectual property and “know-how.” We would also depend on the facility to maintain certain licenses and other relevant government approvals necessary for its business and operations. We would have no direct ownership interest in the facility. The contractual arrangements as embodied in the VIE Documents may not be as effective in providing us benefits from such facility as would direct ownership. In addition, the facility or its equity owners may breach the contractual arrangements. We would similarly rely on any other limited liability company set up in connection with the conduct of related research and development activities. Employees and/or officers of the prospective processing and storage facility/laboratory may encounter conflicts of interest between their duties to us and to the facility. There can be no assurance that if conflicts of interest arise, the ultimate equity owners of the facility will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. These ultimate equity owners could violate any applicable non-competition or employment agreements or their legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others. In any event, we would have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may not always be effective in vindicating our rights, particularly in light of the uncertainties of the PRC legal system. 56 If we move forward with our plans to expand into China through the establishment of any new WFOE and any new China-based limited liability company, we may need to partly rely on distributions paid pursuant to the applicable contractual relationships for certain of our cash needs. If these entities are unable to remit to us sufficient distributions due to statutory or contractual restrictions, our cash needs may not be met. We anticipate that certain of our cash needs may be met by means of the distributions to be paid pursuant to the contractual relationships relevant to any new WFOE we may establish. That is, our access to distributions from the planned stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation in Beijing including related research and development activities would be limited to our rights under contract. In the event we proceeded with these plans, we would depend in part on receipt of these distributions for paying cash distributions to our shareholders, servicing any debt we may incur and paying our operating expenses. The payment of distributions in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by PRC subsidiaries only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. In addition, if any of the relevant entities incur any debt in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict the respective entity’s ability to make distributions. In the event that contractual rights, statutory enactments or PRC regulations delayed or prevented our receipt of anticipated distributions, our operations may be materially adversely affected. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to any PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliated entities that we may establish. In the event that we establish a new WFOE or any other PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliated entities, any loans or additional capital contributions that we might make to such entities must comply with PRC legal requirements relating to foreign debt registration and to PRC companies’ “registered capital” and “total investment.” “Registered capital” refers to the capital contributed to or paid into a PRC company in cash or in kind, and “total investment” refers to the amount of a company’s registered capital plus all external borrowings by such company. The amounts of a PRC company’s registered capital and total investment are set forth in the company’s constitutional documents and are approved by the competent government authority in advance. Loans to such companies cannot exceed the difference between such company’s registered capital and total investment, unless the company has obtained the approval of the appropriate government approval authority. In the event we decide to establish any PRC subsidiaries and then seek to finance such PRC subsidiaries by making additional capital contributions, such additional contributions must be approved by the government approval authority. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or additional capital contributions by us to any subsidiaries or affiliates. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize any PRC operations would be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect the liquidity of any such PRC subsidiaries and our ability to expand our business. 57 RISKS RELATED TO SEC INFORMAL REQUEST We have received an informal request for documents in connection with an SEC investigation of a third party matter In connection with the SEC's investigation of a matter referred to as a matter of a third party (the “Third Party”), we have received an informal request from the SEC, dated December 23, 2008, for the voluntary production of documents and information concerning the issuance, distribution, registration, purchase, sale and/or offer to sell our securities from January 1, 2007 to the present. The Third Party served as the lead underwriter of our public offering that was consummated in August 2007. We are cooperating fully with the SEC’s request. While there is no indication to date that we are the target of an investigation and the letter stated that the request should not be construed as an indication by the SEC or its staff that any violation of the federal securities laws has occurred, nor should it be considered a reflection upon any person, entity or security, there can be no assurance that the SEC will not take any action against us. Any determination by the SEC to take action against us could be costly and time consuming, could divert the efforts and attention of our directors, officers and employees from the operation of our business and could result in sanctions against us, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 