Risk Factors - Risks Relating to the Company’s Business - Our new research and development activities present additional risks.” FINANCING ACTIVITIES 2007 Financing Activities In January 2007, the Company had entered into a strategic alliance with UTEK, a specialty finance company focused on technology transfer, as part of its plan to move forward to expand its proprietary position in the adult stem cell collection and storage arena as well as the burgeoning field of regenerative medicine. The purpose of the agreement was to identify potential technology acquisition opportunities that fit the Company’s strategic vision. Through its strategic alliance agreements with companies in exchange for their equity securities, UTEK assists such companies in enhancing their new product pipeline by facilitating the identification and acquisition of innovative technologies from universities and research laboratories worldwide. UTEK is a business development company with operations in the United States, United Kingdom and Israel. In January 2007, the Company issued 12,000 shares of common stock to UTEK, vesting as to 1,000 shares per month commencing January 2007. See above for information on the Company’s acquisition of the VSEL technology in November 2007 via a transaction with UTEK. In January and February 2007, the Company raised an aggregate of $2,500,000 through the private placement of 250,000 units at a price of $10.00 per unit to 35 accredited investors (the “January 2007 private placement”). Each unit was comprised of two shares of the Company’s common stock, one redeemable seven-year warrant to purchase one share of common stock at a purchase price of $8.00 per share and one non-redeemable seven-year warrant to purchase one share of common stock at a purchase price of $8.00 per share. The Company issued an aggregate of 500,000 shares of common stock, and warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 500,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $8.00 per share. Emerging Growth Equities, Ltd (“EGE”), the placement agent for the January 2007 private placement, received a cash fee equal to $171,275 and was entitled to expense reimbursement not to exceed $50,000. The Company also issued to EGE redeemable seven-year warrants to purchase 34,355 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $5.00 per share, redeemable seven-year warrants to purchase 17,127 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $8.00 per share and non-redeemable seven-year warrants to purchase 17,127 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $8.00 per share. Pursuant to the terms of the January 2007 private placement, the Company was obligated to prepare and file, no later than ten days after the filing of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, a registration statement with the SEC to register the shares of common stock issued to the investors and the shares of common stock underlying the warrants issued to the investors and to EGE. Such registration statement was filed with the SEC on February 7, 2007. The January 2007 private placement was conditioned upon entry by the Company’s Board of Directors and executive officers into a lock-up agreement, pursuant to which such directors and officers will not, without the consent of EGE, sell or transfer their common stock until the earlier of: (a) six months following the effective date of the registration statement filed to register the shares underlying the units, or (b) twelve months following the sale of the units. This registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on April 25, 2007. In August, 2007, the Company raised an aggregate of $6,350,000 through a best efforts underwritten public offering of 1,270,000 units at a price of $5.00 per unit (the “August 2007 public offering”). Each unit consisted of one share of common stock and a five year Class A warrant to purchase one-half a share of common stock at a price of $6.00 per share. Thus, 1,000 units consisted of 1,000 shares of common stock and Class A warrants to purchase 500 shares of common stock. The aggregate number of units sold was 1,270,000, the aggregate number of shares of common stock included within the units was 1,270,000 and the aggregate number of Class A Warrants included within the units was 535,000. Mercer Capital, Ltd. (“Mercer”) acted as lead underwriter for the August 2007 public offering. In connection with this offering, the Company issued five year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 95,250 shares of common stock at $6.50 per share to Mercer and other participating underwriters. After payment of underwriting commissions and expenses and other costs of the August 2007 public offering, the aggregate net proceeds to the Company were $5,620,000. 17 2006 Financing Activities On December 30, 2005, and in January 2006, the Company consummated the private placement sale to 19 accredited investors of units consisting of convertible promissory notes and detachable warrants (“the WestPark private placement”). Gross proceeds raised were $250,000 on December 30, 2005 and $250,000 in January 2006, totaling an aggregate of $500,000 in gross proceeds. Each unit was comprised of: (a) a nine month note in the principal amount of $25,000 bearing 9% simple interest, payable semi-annually, with the 2nd payment paid upon maturity, convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock at a conversion price of $6.00 per share; and (b) 4,167 detachable three year warrants, each for the purchase of one share of common stock at an exercise price of $12.00 per share. The notes were subject to mandatory conversion by the Company if the closing price of the common stock had been at least $18.00 for a period of at least 10 consecutive trading days prior to the date on which notice of conversion was sent by the Company to the holders of the promissory notes, and if the underlying shares were then registered for resale with the SEC. Holders of the units are entitled to certain registration rights (see below). The Company issued to WestPark Capital, Inc., the placement agent for the WestPark private placement, (i) 5,000 shares of common stock (2,500 shares on December 30, 2005 and 2,500 shares in January 2006); and (ii) warrants to purchase an aggregate of 8,334 shares of the Company’s common stock (4,167 on December 30, 2005 and 4,167 in January 2006). By January 2007 all the convertible promissory notes issued in the WestPark private placement had either been converted into shares of the Company’s common stock or repaid by the Company (see below). In May 2006, the Company entered into an advisory agreement with Duncan Capital Group LLC (“Duncan”). Pursuant to the advisory agreement, Duncan provided to the Company on a non-exclusive best efforts basis, services as a financial consultant in connection with any equity or debt financing, merger, acquisition as well as with other financial matters. In return for these services, the Company was paying to Duncan a monthly retainer fee of $7,500 (50% of which could be paid by the Company in shares of its common stock valued at fair market value) and reimbursing it for its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses up to $12,000. Pursuant to the advisory agreement, Duncan also agreed that it or an affiliate would act as lead investor in a proposed private placement of securities, for a fee of $200,000 in cash and 24,000 shares of restricted common stock. On June 2, 2006 (the “June 2006 private placement”), the Company entered into a securities purchase agreement with 17 accredited investors (the “June 2006 investors”). DCI Master LDC, an affiliate of Duncan, acted as lead investor. Duncan received its fee as described above. The Company issued to each June 2006 investor shares of its common stock at a per-share price of $4.40 along with a five-year warrant to purchase a number of shares of common stock equal to 50% of the number of shares of common stock purchased by the June 2006 investor (together with the common stock issued, the “June 2006 securities”). The gross proceeds from this sale were $2,079,000. In February 2007, the term of this agreement was extended through December 2007. Additionally, it was amended to provide that the monthly retainer fee be entirely paid by issuing to Duncan an aggregate of 15,000 shares of common stock vesting monthly over the remaining term of the agreement. The vesting of these shares was accelerated in July 2007 such that they were fully vested and the advisory agreement was canceled in August 2007. Pursuant to the securities purchase agreement for the June 2006 private placement, the Company expanded the size of its Board to four directors, and appointed Dr. Robin L. Smith as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Dr. Smith, who was previously Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Company, purchased 5,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 2,400 shares of common stock pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreement. The Company also agreed to expand the size of the Board upon the initial closing under the securities purchase agreement to permit DCI Master LDC to designate one additional independent member to the Company’s Board of Directors reasonably acceptable to the Company. Richard Berman was originally appointed to the Company’s Board of Directors in November 2006 to serve as such designee. The securities purchase agreement also prohibits the Company from taking certain action without the approval of a majority of the Board of Directors for so long as the purchasers in the June 2006 private placement own at least 20% of the common stock, including making loans, guarantying indebtedness, incurring indebtedness that is not already included in a Board approved budget on the date of the securities purchase agreement that exceeds $100,000, encumbering the Company’s technology and intellectual property or entering into new or amending employment agreements with executive officers. DCI Master LDC was also granted access to Company facilities and personnel and given other information rights. Pursuant to the securities purchase agreement, all then current and future officers and directors of the Company were to not, without the prior written consent of DCI Master LDC, dispose of any shares of capital stock of the Company, or any securities convertible into, or exchangeable for or containing rights to purchase, shares of capital stock of the Company until three months after the effective date of the registration statement filed with the SEC to register the securities issued in the June 2006 private placement (described below). Such registration statement was declared effective on November 6, 2006. 18 The officers of the Company, as a condition of the initial closing under the securities purchase agreement for the June 2006 private placement, entered into letter agreements with the Company pursuant to which they converted an aggregate of $278,653 of accrued salary into shares of common stock at a per share price of $4.40. After adjustments for applicable payroll and withholding taxes which were paid by the Company, the Company issued to such officers an aggregate of 37,998 shares of common stock. The Company also adopted an Executive Officer Compensation Plan, effective as of the date of closing of the securities purchase agreement and pursuant to the letter agreements each officer agreed to be bound by the Executive Officer Compensation Plan. In addition to the conversion of accrued salary, the letter agreements provided for a reduction by 25% in base salary for each officer until the Company achieves certain milestones, the granting of options to purchase shares of common stock under the Company’s 2003 Equity Participation Plan which become exercisable upon the Company achieving certain revenue milestones and the acceleration of the vesting of certain options and restricted shares held by the officers. In January 2007, the milestones relating to the reduction in base salary had been achieved; however, the same officers (and in addition the Chief Executive Officer who became an employee in connection with the June 2006 private placement) agreed to subsequent amendments to or replacements of their employment agreements which provided instead for a 20% reduction in base salary and/or agreement by the officer to extend their employment term, as well as certain additional or amended terms. In connection with the securities purchase agreement, on June 2, 2006 the Company entered into a registration rights agreement with each of the June 2006 investors (the “June 2006 registration rights agreement”). Pursuant to the June 2006 registration rights agreement, the Company was obligated to prepare and file no later than June 30, 2006 a registration statement with the SEC to register the shares of common stock and the warrants issued in the June 2006 private placement. The Company and the June 2006 investors agreed to amend the registration rights agreement and extend the due date of the registration statement to August 31, 2006. A registration statement was filed pursuant thereto and declared effective by the SEC on November 6, 2006. Pursuant to the terms of the WestPark private placement (described above), the Company agreed to file with the SEC and have effective by July 31, 2006, a registration statement registering the resale by the investors in the WestPark private placement of the shares of common stock underlying the convertible promissory notes and the warrants sold in the WestPark private placement. In the event the Company did not do so, (i) the conversion price of the convertible promissory notes would be reduced by 5% each month, subject to a floor of $4.00; (ii) the exercise price of the warrants would be reduced by 5% each month, subject to a floor of $10.00; and (iii) the warrants could be exercised pursuant to a cashless exercise provision. The Company did not have the registration statement effective by July 31, 2006 and requested that the investors in the WestPark private placement extend the date by which the registration statement was required to be effective until February 28, 2007. The Company also offered to the investors the option of (A) extending the term of the convertible note for an additional four months from the maturity date in consideration for which (i) the Company would issue to the investor for each $25,000 in principal amount of the convertible note 568 shares of unregistered common stock; and (ii) the exercise price per warrant would be reduced from $12.00 to $8.00, or (B) converting the convertible note into shares of the Company’s common stock in consideration for which (i) the conversion price per conversion share would be reduced to $4.40; (ii) the Company would issue to the investor for each $25,000 in principal amount of the Note, 1,136 shares of common stock; (iii) the exercise price per warrant would be reduced from $12.00 to $8.00; and (iv) a new warrant would be issued substantially on the same terms as the original Warrant to purchase an additional 4,167 shares of common stock for each $25,000 in principal amount of the convertible note at an exercise price of $8.00 per share. Pursuant to this, the investor was also being asked to waive any and all penalties and liquidated damages accumulated as of the date of the agreement. 19 In September 2006, the Company revised the offer relating to the option of conversion of the WestPark Notes by eliminating the issuance of the additional 1,136 shares of common stock for each $25,000 in principal amount of the Note converted. As of October 30, 2006, investors holding $425,000 of the $500,000 of convertible promissory notes had agreed to convert them into shares of common stock and $162,500 (of which $137,500 in principal amount was subsequently transferred and converted by the transferees) had agreed to extend the term of the convertible promissory notes on the terms set forth above. On November 6, 2006, the registration statement was declared effective. In January 2007, the remaining $75,000 in outstanding convertible promissory notes were repaid. During July and August 2006, the Company raised an aggregate of $1,750,000 through the private placement to 34 accredited investors of 397,727 shares of its common stock at $4.40 per share and warrants to purchase 198,864 shares of common stock at $8.00 per share (the “Summer 2006 private placement”). The terms of the Summer 2006 private placement were substantially similar to the terms of the June 2006 private placement. CORPORATE ACTIONS On August 29, 2006, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock at a ratio of one-for-ten shares. The primary purposes of effecting the reverse stock split was (i) to raise the per share market price of the Company’s common stock to facilitate future financing or to be able to use our capital stock in acquisitions, (ii) to raise the per share price to be able to possibly consider a Nasdaq or other listing for our shares in the future and (iii) to save administrative expenses by reducing the number of our stockholders. This reverse stock split was effective as of August 31, 2006. Also on August 29, 2006, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to change our name from Phase III Medical, Inc. to NeoStem, Inc. As the Company’s business efforts were then focused on developing NS California’s (previously known as NeoStem, Inc.) business of adult stem cell collection and storage, it was appropriate to change the corporate name to NeoStem, Inc. to better reflect our current business operations. On June 14, 2007, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock at a ratio between one-for-three and one-for-ten shares in the event it was deemed necessary by the Company’s Board of Directors to be accepted onto a securities exchange. On July 9, 2007, the Board authorized the reverse stock split at a ratio of one-for-ten shares in order to satisfy the listing requirements of the American Stock Exchange, to be effective concurrently with the initial closing of the Company’s August 2007 public offering. On August 9, 2007 the reverse split was effective and the Company’s common stock commenced trading on The American Stock Exchange under the symbol “NBS.” 20 FORMER BUSINESS OPERATIONS History The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in September 1980 under the name Fidelity Medical Services, Inc. Under prior management it engaged in various businesses, including the development and sale of medical imaging products, the retail sale and wholesale distribution of stationery and related office products in the United Kingdom, operation of a property and casualty insurance business, and ultimately through June 2002 was the sale of extended warranties and service contracts over the Internet covering automotive, home, office, personal electronics, home appliances, computers and garden equipment. In June 2002, management determined, in light of continuing operating losses, to discontinue its warranty and service contract business and to seek new business opportunities for the Company. See Medical Biotech/Business, below. In addition to such activities, since June 2002 the Company continued to “run off” the sale of its warranties and service contracts. This run off was completed in March 2007. Medical/Biotech Business On February 6, 2003, the Company appointed Mark Weinreb as a member of the Board of Directors and as its President and Chief Executive Officer. Under his direction, the Company entered a new line of business where it provided capital and guidance to companies in multiple sectors of the healthcare and life science industries, in return for a percentage of revenues, royalty fees, licensing fees and other product sales of the target companies. The Company continued to recruit management, business development and technical personnel, and developed its business model, in furtherance of its business plan. On July 24, 2003, the Company changed its name to Phase III Medical, Inc., which better described the Company’s then current business plan. On December 12, 2003, the Company signed a royalty agreement with Parallel Solutions, Inc. (“PSI”) to develop a new bioshielding platform technology for the delivery of therapeutic proteins and small molecule drugs. Under this agreement, the Company was to provide capital and guidance to PSI for a proof of concept study, and PSI was to pay the Company a percentage of revenues received from certain sales and licensing activities. PSI ultimately did not progress beyond the proof of concept stage and therefore there were no royalties to be paid to the Company. The last payments made by the Company to PSI were in 2004. The Company does not anticipate any further activity pursuant to the PSI agreement. The Company engaged in various capital raising activities to pursue its new medical/biotech business, raising $489,781 in 2003, $1,289,375 in 2004, $1,325,000 in 2005 and $3,573,000 in 2006, respectively. Such capital raising activities from 2003 to 2006 enabled the Company to pursue the arrangements with PSI and NS California, and to launch the Company’s current adult stem cell business. Employees As of March 28, 2008, the Company had 16 employees, of which 12 are full-time. 21 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY RISKS FACING THE COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT THE COMPANY DOES NOT YET KNOW OF OR THAT IT CURRENTLY THINKS ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR ITS BUSINESS OPERATIONS. IF ANY OF THE RISKS OCCUR, ITS BUSINESS STRATEGY, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL CONDITION AND COMMON STOCK We have a history of operating losses and we will continue to incur losses. Since our inception in 1980, we have generated only limited revenues from sales and have incurred substantial net losses of $10,445,473, $6,051,400 and $1,745,039 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect to incur additional operating losses as well as negative cash flow from our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage business operations until we successfully commercialize and develop this business, if ever. It is also expected that, beyond the utilization of the SCTI funds to support the near-term costs relating to our newly-acquired VSEL technology under the license and sponsored research agreements with the University of Louisville Research Foundation, the Company will incur losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as a result of our new research and development activities until the VSEL technology can be successfully implemented, integrated into our business and commercialized, if ever. We have a history of liquidity problems, which may affect our ability to raise capital. At December 31, 2007, we had a cash balance of $2,304,227, working capital of $1,930,851 and stockholders’ equity of $3,316,194. Our history of illiquidity and losses may make it difficult for us to raise capital on favorable terms. We have from time to time raised capital for our activities through the sale of our equity securities and promissory notes. Most recently, we raised $2,500,000 in January and February 2007 through the private placement sale of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock, and $6,350,000 in August 2007 through the public offering sale of units consisting of shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase common stock. Such capital raising activities have enabled us to pursue our business plan and begin to grow our adult stem cell collection and storage business, including expanding marketing and sales activities. The funds we obtained through the acquisition of SCTI are sufficient to fund certain near term obligations under our agreements relating to our VSEL technology; however, substantial additional funds will need to be raised in order for us to continue to fund additional research and development activities relating to the VSEL technology, including in order to allow us to meet our development obligations under our license agreement with the University of Louisville Research Foundation. The Company anticipates seeking to obtain funds through applications for State and Federal grants, direct investments into SCTI, sublicensing arrangements as well as other funding sources to help offset all or a portion of these costs; however, there can be no assurance that such funding will be received. We will need substantial additional financing to continue operations. We will require substantial additional capital to fund our current operating plan for our business, including the development of our VSEL technology. In addition, our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned because of expenses relating to marketing, advertising, sales, distribution, research and development and regulatory affairs, as well as the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including potential litigation costs and liabilities. 22 If we are unable to obtain future capital on acceptable terms, this will negatively affect our business operations and current investors. We expect that in the future we will seek additional capital through public or private financings. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, further dilution to then existing stockholders will result. If additional capital is raised through the incurrence of debt, our business could be affected by the amount of leverage incurred. For instance, such borrowings could subject us to covenants restricting our business activities, paying interest would divert funds that would otherwise be available to support commercialization and other important activities, and holders of debt instruments would have rights and privileges senior to those of equity investors. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some of our planned activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business. We will continue to experience cash outflows. We continue to incur expenses, including the salary of our executive officers, rent, legal, marketing and accounting fees, insurance and general administrative expenses. We are building the infrastructure for our business and will experience additional cash outflows in the foreseeable future. It is not possible at this time to state whether we will be able to finance these cash outflows or when we will be able to achieve and sustain a positive cash position. Our ability to become profitable will depend on many factors, including our ability to successfully commercialize and develop the business. We cannot assure that we will ever become profitable and we expect to continue to incur losses. NS California, the company from which we initially acquired our adult stem cell business, had nominal operations and nominal assets at the time of our acquisition. From its inception in 2002 through September 30, 2005, NS California had aggregate revenues of $25,500, and aggregate losses of $2,357,940. We cannot guarantee that we will be more successful than NS California in achieving sufficient revenues for profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot guarantee that we can sustain or increase profitability in the future. If revenues grow slower than we anticipate, or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, then our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Because our strategy might include acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies, acquisition expenses and any cash used to make these acquisitions will reduce our available cash. Our stock has historically had limited trading volume. Our common stock currently trades on the American Stock Exchange and until August 9, 2007 was traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, an electronic, screen-based trading system operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Our stock has generally been thinly traded and, although trading volume has increased since it has commenced trading on the American Stock Exchange, we cannot assure you that our stock will continue to have improved liquidity or that it will increase above current levels. Our Class A Warrants also trade on the American Stock Exchange, but have had very limited trading volume. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of our common stock or warrants. Our securities prices could be volatile. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may be more volatile in the future. Factors such as the announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by us or by our competition, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results, our success in commercializing our business, market conditions for healthcare stocks in general as well as economic recession could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock. The historically low volume of trading in our common stock has made it more vulnerable, and it may continue to be more vulnerable, to rapid changes in price in response to market conditions. 23 Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and other securities. We had 5,073,699 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 28, 2008. The following securities that may be exercised for, or are convertible into, shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding as of March 28, 2008: · Options. Stock options to purchase 1,827,800 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $4.01 per share. · Warrants. Warrants to purchase 1,377,688 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $7.25 per share. · Class A Warrants. Warrants to purchase 635,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $6.00 per share. The Class A warrants were issued in our public offering in August 2007. · Underwriters Warrants. Warrants issued to the underwriter in our public offering in August 2007 to purchase 95,250 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $6.50 per share (130% of the price of the common stock sold in the public offering). The vast majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, as well as substantially all the shares of our common stock that may be issued under our outstanding options, warrants, Class A warrants and underwriter warrants, are registered or otherwise not restricted from trading. Our outstanding warrants may negatively affect our ability to raise additional capital. During the terms of our outstanding warrants, Class A warrants and underwriter warrants, their holders are given the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock. So long as these warrants are outstanding, the terms on which we could obtain additional capital may be adversely affected. The holders of these warrants might be expected to exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital by a new offering of securities on terms more favorable than those provided by these warrants. Failure To Maintain Effective Internal Controls In Accordance With Section 404 Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business And Stock Price. If we fail to maintain adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. During the course of our testing of our internal controls, we may identify, and have to disclose, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls that will have to be remediated. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may negatively affect our stock price. 24 RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS If the potential of stem cell therapy to treat serious disease is not realized, the value of our stem cell collection, processing and storage and our development programs could be significantly reduced. The potential of stem cell therapy to treat serious disease is currently being explored. Stem cell therapy is not a commonly used procedure and it has not been proven in clinical trials that stem cell therapy will be an effective treatment for diseases other than those currently addressed by hematopoietic stem cell transplants (hematopoietic stem cells are the stem cells from which all blood cells are made). No stem cell products have been successfully developed and commercialized to date, and none have received regulatory approval in the United States or internationally. Stem cell therapy may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, unintended immune system responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or other characteristics that may prevent or limit its approval or commercial use. The value of our stem cell collection, processing and storage and our development programs could be significantly reduced if the use of stem cell therapy to treat a wide-range of serious diseases is not proven effective in the near future. Because the stem cell industry is subject to rapid technological and therapeutic changes, our future success will materially depend on the viability of the commercial use of stem cells for the treatment of disease. Our success materially depends on the development of therapeutic treatments and cures for disease using stem cells. The broader medical and research environment for such treatments and cures critically affects the utility of stem cells, the services we offer to the public, and our future success. The value of stem cells in the treatment of disease is subject to potentially revolutionary technological, medical and therapeutic changes. However, future technological and medical developments or improvements in conventional therapies could render the use of stem cells and our services and equipment obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, there can be no assurance that our services will provide competitive advantages over other technologies. If technological or medical developments arise that materially alter the commercial viability of our technology or services, we may be forced to incur significant costs in replacing or modifying equipment in which we have already made a substantial investment prior to the end of its anticipated useful life. Alternatively, significant advances may be made in other treatment methods or in disease prevention techniques which could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the need for the services we provide. The materialization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, the results of operations or our ability to operate at all. We may be forced to undertake lengthy and costly efforts to build market acceptance of our stem cell collection, processing and storage services, the success of which is critical to our profitability. There can be no assurance that these services will gain market acceptance. To date, only a minimal number of collections have been performed at the collection centers in our network. Our future success in the business of collecting, processing and storing adult stem cells depends on the successful and continued market acceptance of this service. Broad use and acceptance of our service requires marketing expenditures and education and awareness of consumers and medical practitioners who, under present law, must order stem cell collection on behalf of a potential customer. The time and expense required to educate and build awareness of our services and its potential benefits could significantly delay market acceptance and our ultimate profitability. The successful commercialization of our services will also require that we satisfactorily address the concerns of medical practitioners in order to avoid potential resistance to recommendations for our services and ultimately reach our potential consumers. No assurances can be given that our business plan and marketing efforts will be successful, that we will be able to commercialize our services, or that there will be market acceptance of our services or clinical acceptance of our services by physicians sufficient to generate any material revenues for us. To date, only a minimal number of collections have been performed at the collection centers in our network. 25 Ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of stem cell therapy may increase the regulation of or negatively impact the public perception of our stem cell services, thereby reducing demand for our services. The use of embryonic stem cells for research and stem cell therapy has been the subject of debate regarding related ethical, legal and social issues. Although our business only utilizes adult stem cells and does not involve the more controversial use of embryonic stem cells, the use of other types of human stem cells for therapy could give rise to similar ethical, legal and social issues as those associated with embryonic stem cells. Additionally, it is possible that our business could be negatively impacted by any stigma associated with the use of embryonic stem cells if the public fails to appreciate the distinction between the use of adult versus embryonic stem cells. The commercial success of our business will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of stem cell therapy, in general, for the prevention or treatment of human diseases. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe or unnecessary, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Public pressure or adverse events in the field of stem cell therapy that may occur in the future also may result in greater governmental regulation of our business creating increased expenses and potential regulatory delays relating to the approval or licensing of any or all of the processes and facilities involved in our stem cell banking services. In the event that the use of stem cell therapy becomes the subject of adverse commentary or publicity, our business could be adversely affected and the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations, registrations and approvals would materially and adversely affect our business. Historically, the FDA has not regulated banks that collect and store stem cells. More recent changes, however, require establishments engaged in the recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging or distribution of any Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products (HCT/Ps) or the screening or testing of a cell tissue donor to register with the FDA. The registration requirement was effective as of January 2004 and we are currently so registered. The FDA also adopted rules in May 2005 that regulate current Good Tissues Practices (cGTP). We may be or become subject to such regulations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able, or will have the resources, to comply. Future FDA regulations could also adversely impact or limit our ability to market or perform our services. In order to collect and store blood stem cells we must conduct (or arrange for the conduct of) a variety of laboratory tests which are regulated under the federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA). Any facility conducting regulated tests must obtain a CLIA certificate of compliance and submit to regular inspection. Some states require additional regulation and oversight of clinical laboratories operating within their borders and some impose obligations on out-of-state laboratories providing services to their residents. Many of the states in which we, our strategic partners or members of our collection network engage in collection, processing or storage activities have licensing requirements that must be complied with. Additionally, there may be state regulations impacting the use of blood products that would impact our business. We currently have a biologics license from the State of California. We also have two provisional licenses from the State of New York, which permit the Company’s California facility to collect, process and store hematopoietic progenitor cells (“HPCs”) collected from New York residents, and also permit the solicitation in New York relating to the collection of HPCs. A third provisional license received in January 2008, permits the California facility to collect, process, store and use for medical research HPCs collected from New York residents. NECC, the cryogenic laboratory with whom we have formed a strategic alliance to provide additional processing and storage capacity for consumers on the East Coast, has applied for a license from the State of New York to process, store and use for research HPCs collected from New York residents. Each such license is or will be subject to certain limitations. There can be no assurance that we, our strategic partners or members of our collection center network will be able to obtain any necessary licenses required to conduct business in any states, or maintain licenses that are required and obtained with respect to such states, including California and New York. We may also be subject to state and federal privacy laws related to the protection of our customers’ personal health information to which we would have access through the provision of our services. We may be required to spend substantial amounts of time and money to comply with any regulations and licensing requirements, as well as any future legislative and regulatory initiatives. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or delay in compliance may result in, among other things, injunctions, operating restrictions, and civil fines and criminal prosecution which would have a material adverse effect on the marketing and sales of our services and impair our ability to operate profitably or preclude our ability to operate at all in the future. The Company will need to transfer its processing and storage operations to a larger facility due to space constraints at its California facility. The Company is considering opportunities on the east coast, including utilizing NECC as its primary processing and storage facility and opening a processing and storage facility in connection with its activities at the University of Louisville or at some other AABB licensed facility. Any delay in complying with licensing requirements applicable to a new processing and storage facility could have a material adverse impact on our business. 26 Our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage business was not contemplated by many existing laws and regulations. The service that we provide is unique. It is not medical treatment, although it involves medical procedures. It is not clinical research, although we have recently entered the research and development arena relating to the VSEL technology and additional research participation is part of our business plan. Our research activities are subject to different regulations than our commercial activities. Our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage business was not contemplated by many of the regulations in the field in which we operate and as a result, there is often considerable uncertainty when we are analyzing the applicability of regulatory requirements. We have devoted significant resources to ensuring compliance with those laws that we believe to be applicable and when applicability of a law is in doubt, we have opted to comply in order to minimize risk. It is possible, however, that regulators may disagree with some of our interpretations of the law prompting additional compliance requirements or even enforcement actions. Such enforcement may have a material adverse effect on our operations or may require re-structuring of our operations or impair our ability to operate profitably. Our failure to comply with laws related to hazardous materials could materially harm us. We are subject to state and federal laws regulating the proper disposal of biohazardous material. Although we believe we are currently in compliance with all such applicable laws, a violation of such laws, or the future enactment of more stringent laws or regulations, could subject us to liability for noncompliance and may require us to incur costs and/or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. Side effects or limitations of the stem cell collection process or a failure in the performance of our cryopreservation storage facility or systems could harm our business and reputation. To the extent a customer experiences adverse side effects from the stem cell collection process, the quantities of stem cells collected through our process are ultimately determined to be in inadequate therapeutic amounts, or our cryopreservation storage service is disrupted, discontinued or our ability to provide banked stem cells is impaired for any reason, our business and operations could be adversely affected. Any equipment failure that causes a material interruption or discontinuance in our cryopreservation storage of stem cell specimens could result in stored specimens being damaged and unable to be utilized. Adverse side effects of the collection process, limitations of the collection process (such as whether the collection process produces a sufficient quantity of stem cells for all future therapeutic applications) or specimen damage (including contamination or loss in transit to us), could result in litigation against us and reduced future revenue, as well as harm to our reputation. Our insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any such adverse side effects, limitations or failures in our system or interruptions in our ability to maintain proper, continued, cryopreservation storage services. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, equipment failure, break-ins, tornadoes and similar events for which we do not have redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan and we may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. Any claim of adverse side effects or limitations or material disruption in our ability to maintain continued uninterrupted storage systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 27 We are dependent on existing relationships with third parties to conduct our business. Our process of collecting stem cells involves the injection of a “mobilizing agent” which causes the stem cells to leave the bone marrow and enter into the blood stream. The injection of this mobilizing agent is an integral part of the collection process. There is currently only one supplier of this mobilizing agent, and we are currently dependent upon our relationship with such supplier to maintain an adequate supply. Although we continue to explore alternative methods of stem cell collection, there can be no assurance that any such methods will prove to be successful. In the event that our supplier is unable or unwilling to continue to supply a mobilizing agent to us on commercially reasonable terms, and we are unable to identify alternative methods or find substitute suppliers on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our business. We are also currently using only one outside “apheresis” provider that also is expected to be the apheresis provider to certain of our collection centers being operated by members of our network. “Apheresis” is the process through which stem cells are extracted from a patient’s whole blood and it is an integral part of our collection process. Although other third parties could provide apheresis services, any disruption in the relationship with this service would cause a delay in the delivery of our services. In order to successfully commercialize our business, we will continue to depend upon our relationship with such companies or we or the collection centers operated by members of our network will need to develop internal capabilities to provide this service and obtain appropriate licensure. See also “- Our new research and development activities present additional risks” for additional risks relating to our dependence on third parties for development of our VSEL technology. Our success will depend in part on establishing and maintaining effective strategic partnerships and collaborations, which may impose restrictions on our business and subject us to additional regulation. A key aspect of our business strategy is to establish strategic relationships in order to gain access to critical supplies, to expand or complement our research and development or commercialization capabilities, or to reduce the cost of research and development or commercializing services on our own. There can be no assurance that we will enter into such relationships, that the arrangements will be on favorable terms or that such relationships will be successful. Relationships with licensed professionals such as physicians may be subject to state and federal laws including fraud and abuse regulations restricting the referral of business, prohibiting certain payments to physicians, or otherwise limiting our options for structuring a relationship. If our services become widely reimbursable by government or private insurers, we could be subject to additional regulation and perhaps additional limitations on our ability to structure relationships with physicians. Additionally, state regulators may impose restrictions on the types of business relationships into which licensed physicians or other licensed professionals may enter. Failure to comply with applicable fraud and abuse regulations or other regulatory requirements could result in civil fines, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. Even if we do enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms. Furthermore, these arrangements may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive rights or may have other terms that are burdensome to us. If any of our partners terminate their relationship with us or fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner, our research and development activities or commercialization of our services may be substantially impaired or delayed. If we fail to structure our relationships with physicians in accordance with applicable fraud and abuse laws or other regulatory requirements it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 28 We are dependent upon our management, scientific and medical personnel and we may face difficulties in attracting qualified employees or managing the growth of our business. Our future performance and success are dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our management, medical and scientific personnel. Furthermore, our future growth will require hiring a significant number of qualified technical, medical, scientific, commercial, business and administrative personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. If we are not able to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, including those required in order for us to obtain and maintain appropriate licensure, we may not be able to sustain our operations or achieve our business objectives. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our commercialization and other goals relating to, and we may fail in developing, our new business. General economic recession could negatively impact demand for our services. Economic recession, including attendant job loss, could negatively impact the demand for our services. Our new research and development activities present additional risks. Our new research and development activities relating to the VSEL technology are subject to the same risks as our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage business, and there can be no assurance that we independently or through collaborations will successfully develop, commercialize or market our processing, collection and storage activities utilizing this VSEL technology. Further, we have development obligations under our exclusive license agreement with the University of Louisville pursuant to which we have licensed the VSEL technology. As we currently have minimal capacity to conduct research and development activities, to assist in meeting such development obligations we have entered into a sponsored research agreement with the University of Louisville pursuant to which research services are being provided and on which we are currently dependent on their performance in developing the VSEL technology. Additional research projects at the University of Louisville are also under discussion. We will, however, require additional research and development capacity and access to funds to meet our obligations under the license agreement and fully develop the VSEL technology and integrate it into our business, and expect losses to increase as our research and development efforts progress. The Company anticipates seeking to obtain such funds through applications for State and Federal grants, direct investments into SCTI, sublicensing arrangements as well as other funding sources to help offset all or a portion of these costs; however, there can be no assurance that such funds will be received. We must also develop increased internal research capability and sufficient laboratory facilities or establish relationships with third parties to provide such research capability and facilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain such relationships on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Further, we must meet payment and other obligations under the license and sponsored research agreements. The license agreement requires the payment of certain license fees, royalties and milestone payments, payments for patent filings and applications and the use of due diligence in developing and commercializing the VSEL technology. The sponsored research agreement requires periodic and milestone payments. Our failure to meet financial or other obligations under the license or sponsored research agreements in a timely manner could result in the loss of some or all of our rights to proprietary technology (as an example, portions of the license may be converted to a non-exclusive license or it can be terminated entirely), and/or we could lose our right to have the University of Louisville conduct research and development efforts. 29 The commercial viability of our VSEL technology is subject to substantially the same risks as our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage business, but it will also depend upon the ability to successfully expand the number of VSELs collected through our adult stem cell collection process into a therapeutically viable amount as well as the utility of VSELs for therapeutic purposes. As the number of VSELs which can be isolated from the adult peripheral blood collected is relatively small, the ability to create a therapeutic quantity of VSELs from a small number of cells will be essential to effectively using VSELs. There are many biotechnology laboratories attempting to develop stem cell expansion technology, but to date, stem cell expansion techniques are very inefficient and typically the target cells stop dividing naturally, keeping the yield low. A critical aspect of our adult stem cell collection and banking service relating to the VSEL technology will therefore be the utilization of stem cell expansion processes, and there can be no assurance that such technology will be available. Moreover, stem cell collection and harvesting techniques are becoming the subject of new and rapidly developing technologies and could undergo significant change in the future. Rapid technological development could result in our VSEL technology becoming obsolete prior to its successful integration into the process and commercialization of our collection, processing and storage business. Successful biotechnology development in general is highly uncertain and is dependent on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Technology that appears promising in the early phases of development may fail to be successfully commercialized for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to competing technologies for the same indication. We believe that the VSEL technology is properly classified under the FDA’s HCT/P regulatory paradigm and not as a medical device or as a biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA would agree that this category of regulatory classification applies to the VSEL technology, and the reclassification of this technology could have adverse consequences for us and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct this business by requiring regulatory clearance, approval and/or compliance with additional regulatory requirements. Any future acquisitions may expose us to additional risks. We continuously review acquisition prospects that would complement our current business, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer revenue generating or other growth opportunities. We recently engaged the services of a financial advisor for a six month period on an exclusive basis to assist us in exploring acquisition opportunities of revenue generating businesses, both domestically or abroad, including businesses that are synergistic with or additive to our current business. The financing for any of these acquisitions could dilute the interests of our stockholders, result in an increase in our indebtedness or both. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including: · difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, technologies or products, including the loss of key employees from acquired businesses; 30 · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · risks of entering markets (including those overseas) in which we have limited or no prior experience; and · our management team has limited experience in purchasing and integrating new businesses. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on favorable terms. RISKS RELATING TO COMPETITION The stem cell preservation market has and continues to become increasingly competitive. We may face competition from companies with far greater financial, marketing, technical and research resources, name recognition, distribution channels and market presence than us, who are marketing or developing new services that are similar to the services that are now being or may in the future be developed by us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. For example, in the established market for cord blood stem cell banking, the growth in the number of families banking their newborn’s cord blood stem cells has been accompanied by an increasing landscape of competitors. Our business, which has been more recently developed, already faces competition from other established operators of stem cell preservation businesses and providers of stem cell storage services. We believe that certain of our competitors have established stem cell banking services to process and store stem cells collected from adipose tissue (fat tissue). This type of stem cell banking will require partnering with cosmetic surgeons who perform liposuction procedures. In addition, we believe the use of adult stem cells from adipose tissue will require extensive clinical trials to prove the safety and efficacy of such cells and the enzymatic process required to extract adult stem cells from fat. From a technology perspective this ability to expand a small number of stem cells could present a competitive alternative to stem cell banking. The ability to create a therapeutic quantity of stem cells from a small number of cells is essential to using embryonic stem cells and would be desirable to treat patients who can only supply a small number of their own stem cells. There are many biotechnology laboratories attempting to develop stem cell expansion technology, but to date, stem cell expansion techniques are very inefficient and typically the target cells stop dividing naturally, keeping the yield low. This could also have an adverse effect on our ability to fully utilize our VSEL technology, which will be dependent upon access to reliable stem cell expansion technology. However, even though reliable stem cell expansion technology may ease some of the limitations of the competitive alternatives to our business, it would also allow us to utilize the VSEL technology and also complement adult stem cell banking by allowing individuals to extend the banking of an initial collection of cells for many applications. We also understand that other technologies are being developed which claim the ability to harvest stem cells through a variety of other techniques, such as turning skin cells into cells that behave like embryonic stem cells or harvesting stem cells from the pulp of baby teeth. No assurance can be given that such technologies, or any other technologies, will not ultimately prove to be more successful, have a faster rate of market penetration or have broader application than ours. There can be no assurance that technological or medical breakthroughs by our current or future competitors will not render the Company’s business of stem cell preservation commercially or otherwise unappealing or obsolete. In addition, the Company believes that one’s use of their own (autologous) stem cells presents fewer risks and increases the therapeutic value of stem cell therapy but the Company could nonetheless face competition from companies seeking to promote the benefits of third party donors. 31 In the event that we are not able to compete successfully with our current or potential competitors, it may be difficult for us to grow our revenue and maintain our existing business without incurring significant additional expenses to try to refine our technology, services or approach to our business to better compete, and even then there would be no guarantee of success. We may face competition in the future from established cord blood banks and some hospitals. Cord blood banks such as ViaCord (a division of ViaCell International, a wholly-owned subsidiary of PerkinElmer, Inc.) or Cryo-Cell International may be drawn to the field of stem cell collection because their processing labs and storage facilities can be used for processing adult stem cells from peripheral blood and their customer lists may provide them with an easy access to the market. We estimate that there are approximately 56 cord blood banks in the United States, approximately 27 of which are autologous (donor and recipient are the same) and approximately 29 of which are allogeneic (donor and recipient are not the same). Hospitals that have transplant centers to serve cancer patients may elect to provide some or all of the services that we provide. We estimate that there are approximately 197 hospitals in the United States with stem cell transplant centers. All of these competitors may have access to greater financial resources. In addition, other established companies with greater access to financial resources may enter our markets and compete with us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. RISKS RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY There is significant uncertainty about the validity and permissible scope of patents in the biotechnological industry. We may not be able to obtain patent protection. There can be no assurance that the patent applications to which we hold rights will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued or licensed to our company will not be challenged and held to be invalid or of a scope of coverage that is different from what we believe the patent’s scope to be. Further, there can be no assurance that any future patents related to these technologies will ultimately provide adequate patent coverage for or protection of our present or future technologies, products or processes. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we can obtain patents to protect our own technologies; obtain licenses to use the technologies of third parties if necessary, which may be protected by patents; protect our trade secrets and know-how; and operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property from infringement by third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop intellectual property competitive to ours. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our processes or services or design around our intellectual property rights. As a result, we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Intellectual property litigation is costly, time-consuming, diverts the attention of management and technical personnel and could result in substantial uncertainty regarding our future viability. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection would limit our ability to develop and/or market our services in the future. This would also likely have an adverse affect on the revenues generated by any sale or license of such intellectual property. Furthermore, any public announcements related to such litigation or regulatory proceedings could adversely affect the price of our common stock. 32 Third parties may claim that we infringe on their intellectual property. We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event our technology infringes upon another party’s proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent, license alternative technology from another party or otherwise result in limitations in our ability to use the intellectual property subject to such claims. Litigation and patent interference proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of efforts by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such interference proceedings or in patent litigation to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or, as noted above, require us to seek licenses from third parties. If required, the necessary licenses may not be available on acceptable financial or other terms or at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us, in whole or in part, from commercializing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 