ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY RISKS FACING THE COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT THE COMPANY DOES NOT YET KNOW OF OR THAT IT CURRENTLY THINKS ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR ITS BUSINESS OPERATIONS. IF ANY OF THE RISKS OCCUR, ITS BUSINESS STRATEGY, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL CONDITION AND COMMON STOCK We have a history of operating losses and we will continue to incur losses. Since our inception in 1980, we have generated only limited revenues from sales and have incurred substantial net losses of $6,051,400, $1,745,039 and $1,748,372 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect to incur additional operating losses as well as negative cash flow from our new business operations until we successfully commercialize the collection, processing and storage of adult stem cells, if ever. We have liquidity problems, which may affect our ability to raise capital. At December 31, 2006, we had a cash balance of $436,659, working capital deficit of $310,138 and stockholders' equity of $292,105. Our lack of liquidity combined with our history of losses may make it difficult for us to raise capital on favorable terms. We have from time to time raised capital for our activities through the sale of our equity securities and promissory notes. Most recently, we raised $2,500,000 in January and February 2007 through the private placement sale of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock. Such capital raising activities are enabling us to pursue our business plan and grow our adult stem cell collection and storage business, including expanding marketing and sales activities as well as pay certain of our outstanding liabilities. We will need substantial additional financing to continue operations. We will require substantial capital to fund our current operating plan for our new business. In addition, our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned because of expenses relating to marketing, advertising, sales, distribution, research and development and regulatory affairs, as well as the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including potential litigation costs and liabilities. Our inability to obtain future capital funding on acceptable terms will negatively affect our business operations and current investors. We expect that in the future we will seek additional funding through public or private financings. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, further dilution to then existing stockholders will result. If additional capital is raised through the incurrence of debt, our business could be affected by the amount of leverage incurred. For instance, such borrowings could subject us to covenants restricting our business activities, paying interest would divert funds that would otherwise be available to support commercialization and other important activities, and holders of debt instruments would have rights and privileges senior to those of equity investors. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some of our planned activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business. We will continue to experience cash outflows. We continue to incur expenses, including the salary of our executive officers, rent, legal, marketing and accounting fees, insurance and general administrative expenses. Our business activities are in the early stages of development and will therefore result in additional cash outflows in the coming period. It is not possible at this time to state whether we will be able to finance these cash outflows or when we will achieve a positive cash position, if 13 at all. Our ability to become profitable will depend on many factors, including our ability to successfully commercialize the business. We cannot assure that we will ever become profitable and we expect to continue to incur losses. NS California itself had nominal operations and nominal assets at the time of our acquisition of its adult stem cell business. From its inception in 2002 through September 30, 2005, NS California had aggregate revenues of $25,500, and aggregate losses of $2,357,940. Stocks traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are subject to greater market risks than those of exchange-traded and Nasdaq stocks. Our Common Stock currently trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, an electronic, screen-based trading system operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are, for the most part, thinly traded and generally are not subject to the level of regulation imposed on securities listed or traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market or on a national securities exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of our Common Stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to its price. Our stock price could be volatile. The price of our Common Stock has fluctuated in the past and may be more volatile in the future. Factors such as the announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by us or by our competition, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results, our success in commercializing our business and market conditions for healthcare stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future price of our Common Stock. The generally low volume of trading in our Common Stock makes it more vulnerable to rapid changes in price in response to market conditions. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS If the potential of stem cell therapy to treat serious diseases is not realized, the value of our stem cell collection, processing and storage and our development programs could be significantly reduced. The potential of stem cell therapy to treat serious diseases is currently being explored. Stem cell therapy is not a commonly used procedure and it has not been proven in clinical trials that stem cell therapy will be an effective treatment for diseases other than those currently addressed by hematopoietic stem cell transplants. No stem cell products have been successfully developed and commercialized to date, and none have received regulatory approval in the United States or internationally. Stem cell therapy may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, unintended immune system responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or other characteristics that may prevent or limit its approval or commercial use. The value of our stem cell collection, processing and storage and our development programs could be significantly reduced if the use of stem cell therapy to treat serious diseases is not proven effective in the near future. Because the stem cell industry is subject to rapid technological and therapeutic changes, our future success will materially depend on the viability of the commercial use of stem cells for the treatment of disease. Our success materially depends on the development of therapeutic treatments and cures for disease using stem cells. The broader medical and research environment for such treatments and cures critically affects the utility of stem cells, the services we offer to the public, and our future success. The value of stem cells in the treatment of disease is subject to potentially revolutionary technological, medical and therapeutic changes. Future technological and medical developments or improvements in conventional therapies could render the use of stem cells and our services and equipment obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, there can be no assurance that our services will provide competitive advantages over other technologies. If technological or medical developments arise that materially alter the commercial viability of our technology or services, we may be forced to incur significant costs in replacing or modifying equipment in which we have already made a substantial investment prior to the end of its anticipated useful life. Alternatively, significant advances may be made in other treatment methods or in disease prevention techniques which could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the need for the services we provide. The materialization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, the results of operations or our ability to operate at all. 14 We may be forced to undertake lengthy and costly efforts to build market acceptance of our stem cell collection, processing and storage services, the success of which is critical to our profitability. There can be no assurance that these services will gain market acceptance. We anticipate that service fees from the processing and storage of stem cells will comprise a substantial majority of our revenue in the future and, therefore, our future success depends on the successful and continued market acceptance of this service. Broad use and acceptance of our service requires marketing expenditures and education and awareness of consumers and medical practitioners who, under present law, must order stem cell collection on behalf of a potential customer. The time and expense required to educate and build awareness of our services and its potential benefits could significantly delay market acceptance and our ultimate profitability. The successful commercialization of our services will also require that we satisfactorily address the concerns of medical practitioners in order to avoid potential resistance to recommendations for our services and ultimately reach our potential consumers. No assurances can be given that our business plan and marketing efforts will be successful, that we will be able to commercialize our services, or that there will be market acceptance of our services or clinical acceptance of our services by physicians sufficient to generate any material revenues for us. Ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of stem cell therapy may increase the regulation of or negatively impact the public perception of our stem cell services, thereby reducing demand for our services. The use of embryonic stem cells for research and stem cell therapy has been the subject of debate regarding related ethical, legal and social issues. Although our business only utilizes adult stem cells and does not involve the more controversial use of embryonic stem cells, the use of other types of human stem cells for therapy could give rise to similar ethical, legal and social issues as those associated with embryonic stem cells. Additionally, it is possible that our business could be negatively impacted by any stigma associated with the use of embryonic stem cells if the public fails to appreciate the distinction between the use of adult versus embryonic stem cells. The commercial success of our business will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of stem cell therapy, in general, for the prevention or treatment of human diseases. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe or unnecessary, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Public pressure or adverse events in the field of stem cell therapy that may occur in the future also may result in greater governmental regulation of our business creating increased expenses and potential regulatory delays relating to the approval or licensing of any or all of the processes and facilities involved in our stem cell banking services. In the event that the use of stem cell therapy becomes the subject of adverse commentary or publicity, our business could be adversely affected and the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations, registrations and approvals materially and adversely affect our business. Historically, the FDA has not regulated banks that collect and store stem cells. Recent changes, however, require establishments engaged in the recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging or distribution of any Human Cells, Tissues, and Cellular and Tissue-Based Products (HCT/Ps) or the screening or testing of a cell tissue donor to register with the FDA under the Public Health Service Act. The registration requirement was effective as of January 2004. The FDA also adopted rules in May 2005 that regulate current Good Tissues Practices (cGTP). We may be or become subject to such registration requirements and regulations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able, or will have the resources, to comply. Future FDA regulations could also adversely impact or limit our ability to market or perform our services. In order to collect and store blood stem cells we must conduct (or arrange for the conduct of) a variety of laboratory tests which are regulated under the federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA). Any facility conducting regulated tests must obtain a CLIA certificate of compliance and submit to regular inspection. 15 Some states require additional regulation and oversight of clinical laboratories operating within their borders and some impose obligations on out-of-state laboratories providing services to their residents. The states in which we initially plan to engage in processing and storage activities all currently have licensing requirements with which we believe we will need to comply. Additionally, there may be state regulations impacting the storage and use of blood products that would impact our business. We obtained our biologics license from the State of California in May 2006 but there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary licensing required to conduct our business in other states, or maintain licenses that we do obtain in such states, including California. If we identify other states with licensing requirements or if other states adopt such other requirements, or if we plan to conduct business in a new state with such licensing requirements, we would also have to obtain such licenses and/or comply with such other requirements. We may also be subject to state and federal privacy laws related to the protection of our customers' personal health information to which we would have access through the provision of our services. We may be required to spend substantial amounts of time and money to comply with any regulations and licensing requirements, as well as any future legislative and regulatory initiatives. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or delay in compliance may result in, among other things, injunctions, operating restrictions, and civil fines and criminal prosecution which would have a material adverse effect on the marketing and sales of our services and impair our ability to operate profitably or preclude our ability to operate at all in the future. Our failure to comply with laws related to hazardous materials could materially harm us. We are subject to state and federal laws regulating the proper disposal of biohazardous material. Although we believe we are currently in compliance with all such applicable laws, a violation of such laws, or the future enactment of more stringent laws or regulations, could subject us to liability for noncompliance and may require us to incur costs and/or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. Side effects of the stem cell collection process or a failure in the performance of our cryopreservation storage facility or systems could harm our business and reputation. To the extent a customer experiences adverse side effects from the stem cell collection process, or our cryopreservation storage service is disrupted, discontinued or our ability to provide banked stem cells is impaired for any reason, our business and operations could be adversely affected. Any equipment failure that causes a material interruption or discontinuance in our cryopreservation storage of stem cell specimens could result in stored specimens being damaged and unable to be utilized. Adverse side effects of the collection process or specimen damage (including contamination or loss in transit to us), could result in litigation against us and reduced future revenue, as well as harm to our reputation. Our insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any such adverse side effects or failures in our system or interruptions in our ability to maintain proper, continued, cryopreservation storage services. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, equipment failure, break-ins, tornadoes and similar events for which we do not have redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan and may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. Any claim of adverse side effects or material disruption in our ability to maintain continued uninterrupted storage systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on existing relationships with third parties to conduct our business. Our process of collecting stem cells involves the injection of a "mobilizing agent" which causes the stem cells to leave the bone marrow and enter into the blood stream. The injection of this mobilizing agent is an integral part of the collection process. There is currently only one supplier of this mobilizing agent, and we are currently dependent upon our relationship with such supplier to maintain an adequate supply. Although we continue to explore alternative methods of stem cell collection, there can be no assurance that any such methods will prove to be successful. In the event that our supplier is unable or unwilling to continue to supply a mobilizing agent to us on commercially reasonable terms, and we are unable to identify alternative methods 16 or find substitute suppliers on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our business. We are also using only one outside "apheresis" provider, which is an integral part of the collection process. Although other third parties could provide apheresis services, any disruption in the relationship with this service would cause a delay in the delivery of our services. In order to successfully commercialize our business, we will continue to depend upon our relationship with such companies. Our success will depend in part on establishing and maintaining effective strategic partnerships and collaborations. A key aspect of our business strategy is to establish strategic relationships in order to gain access to critical supplies, to expand or complement our development or commercialization capabilities, or to reduce the cost of developing or commercializing services on our own. There can be no assurance that we will enter into such relationships or that the arrangements will be on favorable terms. Relationships with licensed professionals such as physicians may be subject to state and federal fraud and abuse regulations restricting the referral of business, prohibiting certain payments to physicians, or otherwise limiting our options for structuring a relationship. If our services become reimbursable by government or private insurers in the future, we could be subject to additional regulation and perhaps additional limitations on our ability to structure relationships with physicians. Additionally, state regulators may impose restrictions on the types of business relationships into which licensed physicians or other licensed professionals may enter. Failure to comply with applicable fraud and abuse regulations or other regulatory requirements could result in civil fines, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. Even if we do enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms. Furthermore, these arrangements may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive rights or may have other terms that are burdensome to us. If any of our partners terminate their relationship with us or fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization of our services may be substantially delayed. If we fail to structure our relationships with physicians in accordance with applicable fraud and abuse laws or other regulatory requirements it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon our management, scientific and medical personnel and we may face difficulties in attracting qualified employees or managing the growth of our business. Our future performance and success are dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our management, medical and scientific personnel. Furthermore, our future growth will require hiring a significant number of qualified technical, medical, scientific, commercial, business and administrative personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. If we are not able to continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or achieve our business objectives. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our commercialization and other goals relating to, and we may fail in developing, our new business. RISKS RELATING TO COMPETITION The stem cell preservation market has and continues to become increasingly competitive. We may face competition from companies with far greater financial, marketing, technical and research resources, name recognition, distribution channels and market presence than us, who are marketing or developing new services that are similar to the services that are now being or may in the future be developed by us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. For example, in the established market for cord blood stem cell banking, the growth in the number of families banking their newborn's cord blood stem cells has been accompanied by an increasing landscape of competitors. Our business, which has been more recently developed, already faces competition from other established operators of stem cell preservation businesses and providers of stem cell storage services. We believe that certain of our competitors have established stem cell banking services to process and store stem cells collected from adipose tissue (fat tissue). This type of stem cell banking will require 17 partnering with cosmetic surgeons who perform liposuction procedures. In addition, we believe the use of adult stem cells from adipose tissue will require extensive clinical trials to prove the safety and efficacy of such cells and the enzymatic process required to extract adult stem cells from fat. From a technology perspective this ability to expand a small number of stem cells could present a competitive alternative to stem cell banking. The ability to create a therapeutic quantity of stem cells from a small number of cells is essential to using embryonic stem cells and would be desirable to treat patients who can only supply a small number of their own stem cells. There are many biotechnology laboratories attempting to develop stem cell expansion technology, but to date, stem cell expansion techniques are very inefficient and typically the target cells stop dividing naturally, keeping the yield low. However, stem cell expansion could also complement adult stem cell banking by allowing individuals to extend the banking of an initial collection of cells for many applications. In the event that we are not able to compete successfully with our current or potential competitors, it may be difficult for us to grow our revenue and maintain our existing business without incurring significant additional expenses to try and refine our technology, services or approach to our business to better compete, and even then there would be no guarantee of success. We may face competition in the future from established cord blood banks and some hospitals. Cord blood banks such as ViaCord (a division of ViaCell International) or Cryo-Cell International may be drawn to the field of stem cell collection because their processing labs and storage facilities can be used for processing adult stem cells from peripheral blood and their customer lists may provide them with an easy access to the market. We estimate that there are approximately 43 cord blood banks in the United States, approximately 25 of which are autologous (donor and recipient are the same) and approximately 18 of which are allogeneic (donor and recipient are not the same). Hospitals that have transplant centers to serve cancer patients may elect to enter some phases of new stem cell therapies. We estimate that there are approximately 123 hospitals in the United States with stem cell transplant centers. All of these competitors may have access to greater financial resources. In addition, other established companies with greater access to financial resources may enter our markets and compete with us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. RISKS RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY There is significant uncertainty about the validity and permissible scope of patents in the biotechnological industry. We may not be able to obtain patent protection. There can be no assurance that the patent applications to which we hold rights will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued or licensed to our company will not be challenged and held to be invalid or of a scope of coverage that is different from what we believe the patent's scope to be. Further, there can be no assurance that any future patents related to these technologies will ultimately provide adequate patent coverage for or protection of our present or future technologies, products or processes. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we can obtain patents to protect our own technologies; obtain licenses to use the technologies of third parties if necessary, which may be protected by patents; protect our trade secrets and know-how; and operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property from infringement by third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop intellectual property competitive to ours. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our processes or services or design around our intellectual property rights. As a result, we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Intellectual property litigation is costly, time-consuming, diverts the attention of management and technical personnel and could result in substantial uncertainty regarding our future viability. The loss of intellectual 18 property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection would limit our ability to develop and/or market our services in the future. This would also likely have an adverse affect on the revenues generated by any sale or license of such intellectual property. Furthermore, any public announcements related to such litigation or regulatory proceedings could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their intellectual property. We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event our technology infringes upon another party's proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party's patent, license alternative technology from another party or otherwise result in limitations in our ability to use the intellectual property subject to such claims. Litigation and patent interference proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of efforts by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such interference proceedings or in patent litigation to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or, as noted above, require us to seek licenses from third parties. If required, the necessary licenses may not be available on acceptable financial or other terms or at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us, in whole or in part, from commercializing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 