ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY RISKS FACING THE COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT WE DO NOT YET KNOW OF OR THAT WE CURRENTLY THINK ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED CAREFULLY, IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. THE STATEMENTS CONTAINED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K THAT ARE NOT HISTORIC FACTS ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE SET FORTH IN OR IMPLIED BY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. IF ANY OF THE RISKS OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only ones we face, but those we currently consider to be material. There may be other risks which we now consider immaterial, or which are unknown or unpredictable, with respect to our business, our competition, the regulatory environment or otherwise that could have a material adverse effect on our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION We are a company with a limited operating history and have incurred substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations in the past, and expect to continue to incur losses and negative cash flow for the near term. We are a company with a limited operating history, limited capital, and limited sources of revenue. Since our inception in 1980, we have incurred net losses of approximately $143.1 million through December 31, 2011. We incurred net losses attributable to common shareholders of approximately $47.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and approximately $23.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and we expect to incur additional operating losses and negative cash flow in the future. The revenues from our United States Cell Therapy segment are not sufficient to cover costs attributable to that business. We expect to incur losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as a result of development activities associated with our product candidate AMR-001 (including clinical trials), our VSELTM Technology, a T-cell therapeutic and other research and development efforts to advance cell therapeutics. We also expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to sales, marketing, general and administrative and product research and development in connection with the development of our business. Although Erye, a Chinese pharmaceutical company in which we acquired a 51% interest in October 2009, had revenues of approximately $63.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and approximately $69.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, it has only a limited history of earnings. Pursuant to the October 2009 joint venture agreement that governs the ownership and management of Erye, or the Joint Venture Agreement, for the three-year period commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter after the Joint Venture Agreement became effective distributions are made as follows: (i) 49% of undistributed profits, after tax, will be distributed to Suzhou Erye Economy and Trading Co. Ltd., or EET, which owns the remaining 49% of Erye, and loaned back to Erye for use in connection with its construction of and relocation to the new Erye facility (to be repaid gradually after construction is completed); (ii) 45% of the net profit after tax due to the Company will be provided to Erye as part of the new facility construction fund, which will be characterized as paid-in capital for our 51% interest in Erye; and (iii) only 6% of the net profit will be distributed to us directly for our operating expenses. As a result, we will not be able to supplement our cash flow fully from the income expected to be generated by Erye in the short term. We are pursuing strategic alternatives with respect to our interest in Erye. PCT became a wholly-owned subsidiary of NeoStem on January 19, 2011, upon the closing of the PCT Merger. PCT has not generated any significant amount of revenue nor been profitable in any quarter since inception. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS We consummated our acquisition of Amorcyte on October 17, 2011. Our Amorcyte subsidiary has no product revenue and to date has not received regulatory approval to commercialize any of its products under development. Amorcyte has not completed development of any of its product candidates. Because of the numerous risks associated with drug and biologics development, we are unable to predict whether the development efforts of our Amorcyte subsidiary will be successful. In January 2012, we commenced enrollment of Amorcyte’s Phase 2 PreSERVE clinical trial. The trial is expected to cost approximately $14 million over the first two years and anticipated to cost up to approximately $18 million over a five year period, inclusive of manufacturing costs. While our recent acquisition of Amorcyte will further our strategy of focusing our business on cell therapies, the development and marketing of cell therapies is a new business direction for us. Beginning with our January 2011 acquisition of PCT, we began to shift our business plan to focus on capturing the paradigm shift to cell therapies. It is anticipated that our recent acquisition of Amorcyte will help to further our expansion into the cell therapy field. However, we have limited experience in the areas of cell therapy development and marketing of cell therapy products, and in the related regulatory issues and processes. While the founders of PCT, Dr. Andrew Pecora and Dr. Robert Preti, will continue to provide services in connection with development activities, we can provide no assurances that our management will successfully oversee Amorcyte’s or our other clinical development activities and integrate these businesses into the NeoStem business. We are heavily dependent on the successful development and commercialization of AMR-001, and if we encounter delays or difficulties in the development of this product candidate, our business would be harmed. We are heavily dependent upon the successful development of AMR-001 for cardiovascular disease. Our business could be materially harmed if we encounter difficulties in the development of this product candidate, such as: • delays in the ability to manufacture the product in quantities or in a form that is suitable for any required clinical trials; • delays in the design, enrollment, implementation or completion of required clinical trials; • an inability to follow our current development strategy for obtaining regulatory approval from the FDA because of changes in the regulatory approval process; • less than desired or complete lack of efficacy or safety in clinical trials; and • intellectual property constraints that prevent us from making, using, or commercializing the product candidate. We are pursuing a significant change in the nature of our business. As part of our plan to focus our business on capturing the paradigm shift to cell therapies following our January 2011 acquisition of PCT, we are pursuing strategic alternatives with respect to our 51% interest in Erye. We plan to devote our resources and management efforts to cell therapy manufacturing and development, and other related activities, including adult stem cell collection and storage. We believe that if we were to monetize Erye, we would have additional capital needed to pursue the development of cell therapies. To that end, in June 2011, we engaged a financial advisor to lead the effort to pursue the possible divesture of our 51% interest in Erye. Marketing efforts to date have led only to a few nonbinding letters of intent. However, in addition to the factors set forth below, it is too early to determine whether these or other proposals will lead to definitive agreements. Any sale of our interest would be subject to a right of first refusal held by EET pursuant to the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement between a subsidiary of ours and EET. EET owns the remaining 49% interest in Erye. A number of issues have arisen between EET and NeoStem with respect to the operation and financing of Erye. For instance, while EET is required to lend back to Erye dividends received by it to finance Erye’s move to and construction of its new facilities, Erye has recently reported to us that such arrangement is no 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS longer tax efficient in light of the ratio of Erye’s shareholder loans to its registered capital. In connection with exploring ways to remedy the additional tax burden caused by the level of shareholder loans and in preparing for a sale process, other issues have also surfaced, including the issue of our and Erye's needing to obtain all Chinese regulatory approvals (and associated registrations) required to reflect the legal title of our interest in Erye as being held by the proper entity within our group which is its current beneficial owner as that term is used under U.S. law. The Company believes that we have now determined what government approvals (and associated registrations) will need to be issued by the Suzhou Municipal Bureau of Foreign Investment and Commerce and the Suzhou Administration for Industry and Commerce to remediate these deficiencies and the Company has had counsel in China prepare these filings. The Company’s management believes these regulatory deficiencies can be remediated and should not delay a possible divestiture of the Company’s interests in Erye that is currently under evaluation. However, the Company requires the cooperation of the officers of Erye, as to which no assurance can be given, and we may be compelled to seek to replace these officers or to commence legal action to obtain the required consents or otherwise move forward with requisite filings. In addition, even if the filings are made, no assurance can be given that any unremediated regulatory deficiencies would not have an adverse effect on the operating results and liquidity of Erye and our Company and will not impede or delay efforts to divest our interest in Erye. Also, the remediation process is expected to trigger certain tax liabilities and penalties; however, the ultimate liability will be based on discussions with the relevant Chinese authorities. The Company cannot reasonably assess the exposure as of December 31, 2011. We may not be able to materially enhance our liquidity through a sale of our interest in Erye. We have not yet determined to sell our interest in Erye, and will not do so until we can assess the level of interest generated, the potential price and transaction terms we might be offered and any regulatory impediments to a transaction. The challenging nature of the current China pharmaceutical market makes it a difficult time for us to be pursuing a divestiture of our 51% ownership interest in Erye, and we expect that any sale of this interest will result in our not recouping our original investment. The process to divest Erye has led to our interests becoming unaligned with those of the 49% shareholder, as it from time to time has indicated a desire to be a buyer, and this has led to strained relations between the parties. A sale of our interest in Erye, if a sale can be consummated, would have a material effect on the business, results of operations and balance sheet. Factors that may impede a sale may include, but not be limited to, (i) EET’s right of first refusal and the significant time and money that exercise of such right could cause a potential purchaser, (ii) the need for any purchaser to negotiate a new Joint Venture Agreement and a shareholder loan repayment schedule with EET if EET does not wish to either sell its interest or exercise its right of first refusal, (iii) recent regulatory changes in China which reduce prices that may be charged for certain of Erye’s products and limit use of antibiotics, (iv) recent disappointing financial performance by Erye resulting at least in part from such regulatory changes, including a decrease in revenues in 2011, and a net loss for fourth quarter 2011, (v) tax or regulatory issues affecting Erye, including those described above and other tax increases described in our filings which will adversely affect Erye going forward, (vi) availability of financing for a potential purchaser, and (vii) other factors typical of any sale process. There can be no assurance that any sale of our Erye interest will be made, or will be made at a price that provides material additional capital for our cell therapy development efforts. Erye may require additional lines of credit and bank loans. Due to a number of factors including tightening of monetary policy in China, government-imposed pricing constraints on certain of its products, the additional expenses described above, and constraints on certain bank accounts arising from the Welman litigation described in Item 3 of this Form 10-K under the caption “Legal Proceedings”, Erye has experienced cash flow constraints and may consider seeking additional bank loans. In connection with the Welman litigation, as of December 31, 2011, approximately 15,656,000 RMB (approximately $2,460,000) of cash had been frozen in six Erye bank accounts. No assurances can be given that it will be able to secure additional credit on satisfactory terms, or at all. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS RISKS RELATED TO CELL THERAPY — UNITED STATES Risks Related to the Cell Therapy Industry, Clinical Development and Commercialization Cell therapy is still a developing field and a significant global market for our services has yet to emerge. Our cellular therapy candidates are based on novel cell technologies that are inherently risky and may not be understood or accepted by the marketplace. Cell therapy is still a developing area of research, with few cell therapy products approved for clinical use. At the PCT level, the current market and current contracts principally consist of providing manufacturing of cell and tissue-based therapeutic products in clinical trials and processing of stem cell products for transplantation programs. Our Amorcyte and Athelos subsidiaries are involved in developing cell-based therapies: Amorcyte for cardiovascular indications, and Athelos for T-cell therapy for restoring normal immune responses. Our access to these markets will depend on the progress of our development activities, particularly with respect to Amorcyte, for which the Phase 2 clinical trial for AMR-001 is now enrolling, as well as subsequent trials. We also provide services related to the collection and storage of umbilical cord blood units and adult stem cells. There currently is no significant global market for stem cell processing or their collection and storage, nor is there any guarantee that such markets will develop in the near future, or at all. Major medical institutions currently do not generally recommend private storage, and we believe that the medical community is supportive of the public cord blood collective system. Patients can donate their cord blood to the system without charge. The market for cell and tissue-based therapies is early-stage, substantially research oriented, and financially speculative. Very few companies have been successful in their efforts to develop and commercialize a stem cell product. Stem cell products in general may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, unintended immune system responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy, or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their approval or commercial use. The demand for stem cell processing and the number of people who may use cell or tissue-based therapies is difficult to forecast. As there are no real experts who can forecast this market with accuracy, there is limited data from which the future use of our services may be forecasted. Our success is dependent on the establishment of a large global market for our products and services and our ability to capture a share of this market. Our development efforts including our Phase 2 trial of AMR-001, are susceptible to the risks of failure inherent in the development and commercialization of therapeutic products based on new technologies. The novel nature of cellular therapeutics creates significant challenges with regards to product development and optimization, manufacturing, government regulation, third-party reimbursement and market acceptance. For example, the United States FDA has relatively limited experience regulating therapies based on cells, and there are few approved treatments utilizing cell therapy. Even if we successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for AMR-001 or any future cellular therapeutic product candidates, the market may not understand or accept them, which could adversely affect future sales. The degree of market acceptance of any such product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: • the clinical safety and effectiveness of the product candidates, the availability of alternative treatments and the perceived advantages of the particular product candidates over alternative treatments; • the relative convenience and ease of administration of the product candidates; • our ability to separate the product candidates from the ethical and political controversies associated with stem cell product candidates derived from human embryonic or fetal tissue; • ethical concerns that may arise regarding our commercial use of stem cells, including adult stem cells, in the manufacture of the product candidates; • the frequency and severity of adverse events or other undesirable side effects involving the product candidates or the products or product candidates of others that are cell-based; and • the cost of the products, the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our drug product candidates subject us to additional extensive regulatory scrutiny. If we are not able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for AMR-001 or future product candidates, we may not be able to continue our business operations, and our Company may be materially and adversely affected. Our drug product candidates, and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in states and in other countries. Our failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate would prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. We have not received regulatory approval to market any product candidate in any jurisdiction. Securing FDA approval typically requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Securing FDA approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the FDA. AMR-001 and any other potential future products of ours may not be effective, may be only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude the obtaining of regulatory approval or may prevent or limit commercial use. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved and challenges by competitors. Because all of its product candidates are based on its CD34+ stem cell technology, any adverse events in our Amorcyte subsidiary’s clinical trials of one of its product candidates could negatively affect the clinical trials and approval process for Amorcyte’s other product candidates. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application or may make it easier for our competitors to gain regulatory approval to enter the marketplace. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that Amorcyte’s data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying agency interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. Any of the following factors, among others, may cause regulatory approval for our drug product candidates to be delayed, limited or denied: • the product candidates require significant clinical testing to demonstrate safety and effectiveness before applications for marketing approval can be filed with the FDA; • data obtained from preclinical and nonclinical animal testing and clinical trials can be interpreted in different ways, and the FDA may not agree with our respective interpretations or may require us to conduct additional testing; • it may take many years to complete the testing of product candidates, and failure can occur at any stage of the process; • negative or inconclusive results or the occurrence of serious or unexpected adverse events during a clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate development efforts for a product candidate; and • FDA may require expansion of the size and scope of the clinical trials. Any difficulties that we encounter in obtaining regulatory approval would have a substantial adverse impact on our ability to generate product sales, and could make any search for a collaborative partner more difficult. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our VSELTM Technology and our other research and development activities using cells in therapeutic indications present additional risks. Our research and development activities relating to our VSELTM Technology and other populations of adult stem cells also pose additional risks related to requirements for preclinical and clinical testing by regulatory authorities including the FDA, to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the underlying therapy. The development of new drugs and therapies is often a long, expensive and difficult process and most attempts fail. Our VSELTM Technology is in the very early stages of development and will require many steps, tests and processes before we will be able to commence clinical testing in humans. There can be no assurance that a biologics license application, or BLA, with the FDA will not be required for our VSELTM Technology or our other stem cell technologies. The approval process for a BLA can take years, require human clinical trials and cost several million dollars. There also can be no assurance that we independently, or through collaborations, will successfully develop, commercialize or market our VSELTM Technology or other stem cells for any therapeutic indication. Should we fail to develop our VSELTM Technology or other adult stem cell technologies pursued by us, our business prospects, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If clinical trials of our product candidate AMR-001 or any future product candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or do not otherwise produce positive results, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of such product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of AMR-001 or any other product candidate, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials conducted by our Amorcyte subsidiary or on its behalf can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including the following: • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • clinical trials of product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs that we expect to be pursuing; • the number of patients required for clinical trials of product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, or participants may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; • third party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner or at all; • we might have to suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators or institutional review boards may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; • the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than anticipated; • we may be subject to a more complex regulatory process, since cell-based therapies are relatively new and regulatory agencies have less experience with them than with traditional pharmaceutical products; • the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of these product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate; and 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS • our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us or our investigators to halt or terminate the trials. During Amorcyte’s Phase 1 trial of AMR-001, serious adverse events in the treatment group were not significantly different in number compared to the control group. However, serious adverse events during the Phase 1 trial that occurred included one treatment group subject death from ventricular fibrillation soon after cell infusion. The ventricular fibrillation was attributed to recurrent myocardial infarction from stent thrombosis preceding cell infusion. This subject’s death resulted in a clinical hold during the Phase 1 trial. The hold was removed upon FDA’s review of the complete documentation on the patient and changes to enrollment procedures for additional subjects that was submitted by Amorcyte. Another treatment group subject was withdrawn because of acute stent thrombosis before cell infusion. One control subject and two additional treatment subjects experienced in-stent restenosis. One treatment subject experienced worsening of congestive heart failure. There can be no assurance that similar or other events will not occur in future clinical trials of our Amorcyte subsidiary's product candidates that could give rise to safety concerns, particularly in light of the impaired heart function of patients who will be the target subject population of Amorcyte's future planned clinical trials. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of AMR-001 beyond those that we currently contemplate, or if we are required to conduct additional trials or testing of future product candidates beyond what we currently anticipate, or if we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, or if there are safety concerns, we may: • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for AMR-001 (or any future product candidate); • not be able to obtain marketing approval; • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended; • have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval; • be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements; or • be subject to restrictions on how the product is distributed or used. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We cannot predict whether any clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, or at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations. The initiation of a pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for AMR-001 will require the validation and establishment of manufacturing controls that may delay product development. We initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial of AMR-001, enrolling our first patient in January 2012, and we are targeting enrolling approximately 160 patients over the course of a year or so. If the results of the Phase 2 clinical trial are positive and support Phase 3 development, we intend to initiate and complete one or more pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials before seeking regulatory approval to commercialize AMR-001. Our Amorcyte subsidiary is required to have certain validated and established manufacturing controls with respect to AMR-001 related to its safety, purity and potency when administered to patients. Manufacturing control issues will need to be addressed and resolved with the FDA if we seek to initiate a Phase 3 clinical trial of AMR-001. Specifically, we must develop a potency assay for AMR-001 and lot release specifications that correlate with AMR-001 activity or clinical response. We may not be successful in our efforts to address these chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, issues for AMR-001 in a manner satisfactory to the FDA. If we cannot initiate, or if we are delayed in initiating, a pivotal Phase 3 clinical program of AMR-001 as a 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS result of our failure to satisfy the FDA’s CMC concerns or otherwise, the timing of our regulatory submission for commercialization of AMR-001 could be delayed, or we may not be able to seek regulatory approval to commercialize AMR-001 at all. Development of Amorcyte's AMR-001 is subject to uncertainty because the CD34+ cells are derived from human bone marrow, a source material that is inherently variable. The number of CD34+/CXCR4+-cells and the composition of the CD34+ cell population from bone marrow vary from patient to patient. These cells are the basis of our product candidate AMR-001. Such variability in composition could adversely affect our ability to manufacture these product candidates derived from a patient’s bone marrow or to establish and meet acceptable specifications for release of the product candidate for use in a clinical trial or, if approved, for treatment of a particular patient. As a consequence, the development and regulatory approval process for these product candidates could be delayed or may never be completed. The results of preclinical studies may not correlate with the results of human clinical trials. In addition, early stage clinical trial results do not ensure success in later stage clinical trials, and interim trial results are not necessarily predictive of final trial results. To date, we have not completed the development of any products through regulatory approval. While Amorcyte and others have analyzed the potential of AMR-001 in preclinical studies with animals, the potential efficacy of AMR-001 in humans has only been evaluated in a Phase 1 clinical trial. The results of preclinical studies in animals may not be predictive of results in a clinical trial. Likewise, the outcomes of early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials. The safety and efficacy data from our Phase 2 clinical trial of AMR-001 may be less favorable than the data observed in the Phase 1 clinical trial of this product candidate, which was based on small numbers of patients. There can be no assurances that the clinical trials of any product candidate will ultimately be successful. New information regarding the safety and efficacy of such product candidate may be less favorable than the data observed to date. We may experience delays in enrolling patients in our clinical trials, which could delay or prevent the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals. We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of AMR-001 (or other product candidates) if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in the clinical trials required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. We may also be unable to engage a sufficient number of clinical trial sites to conduct our trials. The challenge of enrolling patients will become more difficult if we are required by the FDA or a similar regulatory agency outside the United States to conduct a trial on a larger population than we currently anticipate. In that event, we might be required to seek patients to participate in our trials from Europe or other foreign jurisdictions, which could raise regulatory uncertainties and increase clinical trial costs. Moreover, because our PCT subsidiary does not currently have FDA registered manufacturing facilities operating outside of the United States, our ability to conduct trials outside of the U.S. may be constrained by our ability to transport trial materials to foreign destinations within the expiry period of such materials unless we commence operation outside of the United States. We and our investigators may also face challenges in enrolling patients to participate in our clinical trials due to the novelty of our cell-based therapies. Some patients may have concerns regarding cell therapy that may negatively affect their perception of therapies under development and their decision to enroll in the trials. Furthermore, patients suffering from diseases within target indications may enroll in competing clinical trials, which could negatively affect our ability to complete enrollment of our trials. Additional factors that may affect our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials include: • the size of the patient population; • patients’ willingness to receive a placebo or other inactive control on the control arm of a clinical study; • the distance between patients and clinical test sites; and • the eligibility criteria for the trial. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS Enrollment delays in clinical trials may result in increased development costs for product candidates, and inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients for any current or future clinical trials would result in significant delays or may require one or more clinical trials to be abandoned altogether. The cell sorting system we are using in the Phase 2 clinical trial of AMR-001 is owned by an unaffiliated third party. The essential cell sorting system that we are using in our Phase 2 clinical trial of AMR-001 is being provided to us by the unaffiliated third party that owns the system. Any lack of continued availability of the system, for any reason, would have a material adverse effect on our AMR-001 product development and commercialization efforts. Although there are other available systems in the marketplace, we have not evaluated their costs or safety and effectiveness, or whether AMR-001 would be compatible with such systems. Moreover, if the system becomes unavailable during or after Phase 2, we would need to demonstrate that the Phase 2 data obtained with this system are still relevant to future trials using cells sorted with other systems. We may also use other third-party collaborators to help us develop or commercialize AMR-001 or future product candidates, and our ability to commercialize such candidates may be impaired or delayed if collaborations are unsuccessful. We may in the future selectively pursue strategic collaborations for the development and commercialization of AMR-001 or other product candidates and for the international development and commercialization of such product candidates. For example, we anticipate that we might need to enter into a collaboration agreement with a third party to conduct and fund one or more pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials of AMR-001. In addition, we may not be able to commercialize AMR-001 successfully without entering into an arrangement with a third party to provide an approved method of administration. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable collaborators or negotiate collaboration agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In any future third-party collaboration, we would be dependent upon the success of the collaborators in performing their responsibilities and their continued cooperation. Such collaborators may not cooperate or perform their obligations under their agreements with us. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators’ resources that will be devoted to performing their responsibilities under their agreements with us. Collaborators may choose to pursue alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. The development and commercialization of product candidates will be delayed if collaborators fail to conduct their responsibilities in a timely manner or in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or if they breach or terminate their collaboration agreements. Disputes with collaborators could also result in product development delays, decreased revenues and litigation expenses. If the potential of AMR-001 or our other cell therapy product candidates to address the indications that we are pursuing is not realized, or if we are unable to demonstrate in clinical trials that AMR-001 or any other cell therapeutic is safe and effective for the indications pursued, the value of our technology and development programs could be significantly reduced. Contractual arrangements between our Company and any licensors or collaborators may require us to pay royalties or make other payments in connection with the successful development of a product candidate. For example, even if we successfully commercialize AMR-001, we will have to pay a portion of any AMR-001 revenues to the former stockholders of Amorcyte as an earn out. We are currently exploring in clinical development, the potential of Amorcyte’s AMR-001 to address certain targeted cardiovascular indications, and the potential of Athelos’ T-reg therapy for restoring normal immune responses. This technology is still in early stages of discovery and development, and our Amorcyte subsidiary has not proven in clinical trials that its product candidate will be safe and effective for the indications for which it intends to seek approval. Our Athelos subsidiary’s T-reg therapeutic for autoimmune disorders is in earlier stages of clinical development. These and other cell therapy product candidates we may pursue are susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their marketing approval or commercial use. For example, our Amorcyte subsidiary has not treated a sufficient number of patients to allow us to 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS evaluate the most frequent or most serious adverse events that could occur with AMR-001. Any undesirable side effects that might be caused by AMR-001 (or future cell therapy product candidates) could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. We could also be required to change the manner in which a product candidate is administered, which could require that additional clinical trials be conducted. If the potential of AMR-001, Athelos’ T-reg therapeutic, or any other cell therapeutic product candidate of ours is not realized, whether as a result of unintended consequences or otherwise, the value of our technology and development programs could be significantly reduced. Even if we obtain all applicable regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize one or more of our cell therapy candidates, contractual arrangements between our Company and a licensor, collaborator or other third party, as applicable, in connection with the respective product, may require that we make royalty or other payments to the respective third party, and as a result our Company would not receive all of the revenue derived from commercial sales of the respective product. For example, the Amorcyte Merger Agreement requires us to pay certain earn out payments following the first commercial sale of AMR-001 for the benefit of the former stockholders of Amorcyte, generally equal to 10% of net sales (or 30% of any sublicensing fees, royalties and milestone fees or profit sharing payments, in the event we license or otherwise grant an unaffiliated third party the right to commercialize or otherwise exploit AMR-001), less NeoStem’s out-of-pocket clinical development costs not previously paid or reimbursed and other expenses. Also, the license agreements relating to the T-reg therapeutics being developed by Athelos include obligations to pay royalties on net sales of licensed products, maintenance fees and milestone fees upon events such as initiation of clinical trial stages, license application filings and regulatory approvals. Where such an agreement applies, the payment by us of the applicable royalties and other fees mean that our Company does not receive all of the revenue upon a successful commercialization of the respective product candidate. We have a very limited history of conducting our own research and development activities. To support our own research and development activities for our VSELTM Technology, in September 2009 we signed a lease for approximately 8,000 square feet of office and laboratory space in Cambridge, Massachusetts that has served as our research and development headquarters. The Company is assessing its need for the Cambridge facility going forward given the acquisition of PCT with its Allendale, NJ and Mountain View, CA facilities which could accommodate this work. In May 2011 we sublet a portion of our Cambridge facility to another life science company. To pursue our current business strategy, we must have in place appropriate research capabilities, either on our own or through relationships with third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Our additional research and development capacity also will require adequate sources of funding. There can be no assurance that any of these development efforts will produce a successful product or technology. Our failure to develop new products would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if we are successful in developing a therapeutic application using our cell technologies, we still may be unsuccessful in creating a commercially viable and profitable business. The commercial viability of our stem cell technologies may depend on our ability to successfully isolate and expand the number of stem cells collected through adult stem cell collection processes in order to achieve a therapeutically-viable dose. Today, the number of very small embryonic-like stem cells that can be isolated from the peripheral blood of an adult donor is relatively small and this volume of cells may not be sufficient for therapeutic applications. Cell expansion processes may thus prove to be a critical component of our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage services as it relates to the VSELTM Technology and other potential cell technologies. There are many biotechnology laboratories attempting to develop cell expansion technology, but to date, cell expansion techniques remain very inefficient. There can be no assurance that such technology will be effective or available at all. The unavailability of cost effective and reliable expansion technologies could severely limit the commercial opportunities of our VSELTM Technology program and other potential cell technologies and limit our business prospects, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, stem cell collection techniques are rapidly developing and could undergo significant change in the future. Such rapid technological development could result in our technologies becoming obsolete. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS Successful biotechnology development in general is highly uncertain and is dependent on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. While our AMR-001 product candidate, our Athelos program and our VSELTM Technology appear promising, such technologies may fail to be successfully commercialized for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, competing technologies for the same indication. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop a commercially successful therapeutic application for this technology or other potential stem cell technologies. Technological and medical developments or improvements in conventional therapies could render the use of cell therapy and our services and planned products obsolete. Advances in other treatment methods or in disease prevention techniques could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the need for our cell therapy services, planned products and therapeutic efforts. There is no assurance that cell therapies will achieve the degree of success envisioned by us in the treatment of disease. Nor is there any assurance that new technological improvements or techniques will not render obsolete the processes currently used by us, the need for our services or our planned products. Additionally, technological or medical developments may materially alter the commercial viability of our technology or services, and require us to incur significant costs to replace or modify equipment in which we have a substantial investment. We are focused on cell therapy, and if this field is substantially unsuccessful, this could jeopardize our success or future results. The occurrence of any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Cell therapies may not be successfully developed by us or others, and in such case, demand for the ancillary services that we provide (such as cell processing and manufacturing, adult stem cell collection, and processing and storage) may never develop. The value of our development programs, as well as the value of the ancillary supporting services that we provide (such as our stem cell collection, processing and storage business, or the processing and manufacturing services offered by our PCT subsidiary), could be significantly impaired, and our ability to become profitable and continue our business could be materially and adversely affected, if cell therapies under development by us or by others to treat disease are not proven effective, demonstrate unacceptable risks or side effects or, where required, fail to receive regulatory approval. The therapeutic application of cells to treat serious diseases is currently being explored by a number of companies. Cells collected and used for the same individual are referred to as autologous cells and those collected from an individual who is not the user of the cells are referred to as allogeneic cells. To our knowledge, the only allowed therapeutic uses of stem cells in the U.S., other than in connection with clinical trials, involves hematopoietic stem cell transplants to treat certain types of blood-based cancers (hematopoietic stem cells are the stem cells from which all blood cells are made) and adult autologous cultured cartilage cells for implantation for the repair of symptomatic cartilage defects of the femoral condyle (the distal end of the femur). No other stem cell therapeutic products have received regulatory approval for sale in the U.S. While stem cell-based therapy has been reported to be susceptible to various risks, including some undesirable side effects and immune system responses, these problems have been primarily associated with allogeneic use. Inadequate therapeutic efficacy also is a risk that may prevent or limit approval or commercial use of adult stem cells, whether for autologous use or allogeneic use. In addition, the time and cost necessary to complete the clinical development and to obtain regulatory approval of new therapies using stems cells are expected to be significant. If a market for underlying cell therapies never materializes, the market for ancillary and supporting services would also suffer. The demand for PCT’s services depends in part on our customers’ research and development and marketing efforts. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed if our customers spend less on, or are less successful in, these activities. Many of PCT’s customers are engaged in research, development, production and marketing. The amount of customer spending on research, development, production and marketing has a large impact on our revenues and profitability, particularly the amount customers choose to spend on outsourcing. Customers determine the amounts that they will spend based upon, among other things, available resources and their need to develop new products, which, in turn, is dependent upon a number of factors, including their competitors’ research, development and production initiatives, and the anticipated reimbursement scenarios for specific products and 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS therapeutic areas. In addition, consolidation in the industries in which our customers operate may have an impact on such spending as customers integrate acquired operations, including research and development departments and their budgets. Our customers finance their research and development spending from private and public sources. A reduction in spending by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our customers are not successful in attaining or retaining product sales due to market conditions, reimbursement issues or other factors, our results of operations may be materially impacted. Further, the nature and duration of PCT’s contracts with customers, which may be subject to repeated renegotiation and amendments which change the objectives of our work and the milestones which determine when revenues are received by us, can yield varying revenues and profits, which may have an adverse effect on our revenues. Adverse outcomes or limitations of our stem cell or cord blood collection and storage services, or a failure in the performance of the cryopreservation storage facility or systems of our service providers, could harm our reputation and business. Customers may experience adverse outcomes or encounter limitations in connection with our stem cell or cord blood collection and storage services. For example, when stem cells are collected from a customer for storage, there is the possibility of an infection acquired from the apheresis process, which is the process of extracting stem cells from a patient’s whole blood, which is an integral part of our collection process. Both our stem cell and cord blood collection and storage services may be subject to additional limitations, including (i) collection of insufficient quantities of stem cells for therapeutic applications; (ii) failure of the equipment supporting our cryopreservation storage service to function properly and thus maintain a supply of usable adult stem cells; and (iii) specimen damage, including contamination or loss in transit to us. Should any of these events occur, our reputation could be harmed, our operations could be adversely affected and litigation could be filed against us. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, equipment failure, break-ins, tornadoes and similar events for which we do not have redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance and/or liability insurance to compensate for losses and claims that might arise in the event of such an interruption. Any claim of adverse side effects or limitations or material disruption in our ability to maintain continued uninterrupted storage systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the value of our cord blood storage services is related to the higher success rate of autologous cord blood transplants over unrelated ones. If medical research discovers new and more effective medical procedures that make allogeneic cord blood transplants safer and more effective, the clinical advantage of storing a child’s umbilical cord blood for his or her own future therapeutic use may significantly decline. We have limited manufacturing capabilities. In the event of regulatory approval of a commercial application of AMR-001, we may not be able to manufacture AMR-001 (or any other product that may be approved) in compliance with evolving regulatory standards or in quantities sufficient for commercial sale. We believe that we can provide services and produce materials for clinical trials and for human use at our existing facilities, which we believe are compliant with FDA requirements for cGMP, and cGTP. We also believe that we have sufficient capacity to meet expected near term demand. However, we may need to, depending on demand, expand our manufacturing capabilities for cell therapy services and products in the future. In 2007, PCT acquired an additional facility in Allendale, New Jersey, which became a cGMP compliant facility in 2010. The demand for our services and products could, at times, exceed existing manufacturing capacity. If we do not meet rising demand for products and services on a timely basis or are not able to maintain cGMP compliance standards, then our clients and potential clients may elect to obtain the products and services from competitors, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues. Components of therapeutic products approved for commercial sale or used in late-stage clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with cGMP. Manufacturers of cell-based product candidates such as AMR-001 also must comply with the cGTP. In addition, therapeutic products may be required to modify their manufacturing process from time to time in response to FDA requests. Manufacture of live cellular-based products is complex and subjects companies to significant regulatory burdens that may change over time. We may encounter difficulties in the production of our product candidates due to our limited manufacturing 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS experience. Although Amorcyte's cell processing services are provided “in-house” through its sister subsidiary PCT, we may not have sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet any commercial demand that might develop should AMR-001 demonstrate efficacy, receive necessary approvals and be cleared for commercialization. These difficulties could reduce sales of our products, if any are approved for marketing, increase costs or cause production delays, any of which could damage the reputation and diminish potential profitability. We expect that we would need to significantly expand our manufacturing capabilities to meet potential demand for commercial production of product candidates that might attain regulatory approval. Such expansion would require additional regulatory approvals. We may also encounter difficulties in the commercial-scale manufacture that may be required following any regulatory approval. PCT is currently developing new processes and is in discussions with other companies to develop new instruments to improve manufacturing efficiency. Improving the speed and efficiency of our manufacturing process including cell sorters and other instruments PCT uses in connection with AMR-001production is a key element of our business plan. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to develop process enhancements that are acceptable to the FDA, on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to develop these improvements, we could face significantly higher capital expenditures than we anticipate in connection with AMR-001 development, increased facility and personnel costs and other increased operating expenses. We may need to demonstrate that product candidates manufactured using new processes or instruments are comparable to the product candidates used in clinical trials. Depending on the type and degree of differences, we may be required to conduct additional studies or clinical trials to demonstrate comparability. In addition, some changes in manufacturing processes or procedures, including a change in the location where a product candidate is manufactured, generally require FDA or foreign regulatory authority review and approval prior to implementation. We may need to conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials to support approval of any such changes for Amorcyte. Furthermore, this review process could be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the commercialization of product candidates. If our processing and storage facilities are damaged or destroyed, our business, clinical trials, programs, and prospects could be negatively affected and could adversely affect our value. We process and store adult autologous stem cells from our network of U.S. adult stem cell collection centers and the umbilical cord blood of customers of NeoStem Family Storage, LLC at PCT’s facility in Allendale, New Jersey, and may do so at PCT’s Mountain View, California, facility in the future. We also process and store cellular therapy products for clinical trials at PCT’s facility in Allendale, New Jersey, and may do so at PCT’s Mountain View, California, facility. If these facilities or the equipment in these facilities was to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of some or all of the stored adult autologous stem cells, cord blood units, and cellular therapy products. Depending on the extent of loss, such an event could reduce the ability of us, NeoStem Family Storage, LLC, and PCT to provide stem cells when requested, could expose us, NeoStem Family Storage, LLC, and PCT to significant liability from our customers, and could affect the ability to continue to provide adult autologous stem cells and umbilical cord blood preservation services and manufacturing of cellular therapy services and products. While we believe that we have insured against losses from damage to or destruction of our facilities consistent with typical industry practices, if we have underestimated our insurance needs, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover losses beyond the limits on its policies. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our value. Furthermore, AMR-001 for our Amorcyte subsidiary's clinical trials is produced by PCT at PCT’s facilities. Because PCT serves as Amorcyte’s exclusive provider of all cell processing services (including production of AMR-001 for clinical trials), Amorcyte relies on PCT’s Allendale or Mountain View facilities and on the continuing suitability of PCT’s facility to provide necessary services. If PCT’s Allendale or Mountain View facilities (or the equipment therein) are significantly damaged or destroyed, Amorcyte will likely experience significant disruptions to the manufacturing capacity for AMR-001, which capacity might not be quickly or inexpensively replaced. In such a situation, we may be required to negotiate agreements with third parties for cell processing services, which would likely increase our operating costs. In the event of a temporary or protracted loss of PCT’s facility or equipment, it is possible that Amorcyte might not be able to transfer manufacturing to a third party. Even if Amorcyte could transfer manufacturing to a third party, the shift would likely be expensive and time-consuming, particularly since the new facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements and Amorcyte would need FDA approval before selling any 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS products manufactured at that facility. Such an event could delay clinical trials or, if any Amorcyte product candidates are approved by the FDA, reduce sales of such products. We have a limited marketing staff and budget. The degree of market acceptance of our products and services depends upon a number of factors, including the strength of our sales and marketing support. If our marketing is not effective, our ability to generate revenues could be significantly impaired. Due to capital constraints, our marketing and sales activities have been somewhat limited and thus we may not be able to make our services known to a sufficient number of potential customers and partners. Limitations in our marketing and sales activities, and the failure to attract enough customers, will affect our ability to operate profitably. For any other product candidate that receives marketing approval from the FDA, we would need either to hire a sales force with expertise in biologic products or to contract with a third party to provide a sales force to meet its needs. We have no experience in the selling, marketing or distribution of biologic products. To achieve commercial success for any product that might be approved in the future for marketing, we would be required either to develop a sales and marketing organization or to outsource these functions to third parties. We may be unable to establish marketing, sales and distribution capabilities necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for any of its product candidates and to be competitive. In addition, co-promotion or other marketing arrangements with third parties to commercialize product candidates could significantly limit the revenues derived from such product candidates, and these third parties may fail to commercialize the product candidates successfully. The market for services related to the collection, preservation and expansion of cells has become increasingly competitive. Our competitors may have greater resources or capabilities or better technologies than do we, or may succeed in developing better service than do we and we may not be successful in competing with them. Additionally, the product development initiatives of our Amorcyte subsidiary face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. The biotechnology and life science industries are highly competitive. They include multinational biotechnology and life science, pharmaceutical and chemical companies, academic and scientific institutions, governmental agencies, and public and private research organizations. Many of these companies or entities have significantly greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than do we. The biotechnology and life science industries are characterized by extensive research and development, and rapid technological progress. Competitors may successfully develop services or products superior or less expensive than cell therapy services or products, rendering our services less valuable or marketable. Historically, in the U.S. we have faced competition from other established operators of stem cell preservation businesses and providers of stem cell storage services. Today, there is an established and growing market for cord blood stem cell banking. We are aware of at least one other company with established stem cell banking services that processes and stores stem cells collected from adipose, or fat, tissue. This type of stem cell banking requires harvesting fat by a liposuction procedure. Embryonic stem cells represent yet another alternative to pre-donated and stored adult stem cells. As techniques for expanding stem cells improve, thereby allowing therapeutic doses, the use of embryonic stem cells and other collection techniques of adult stem cells could increase and compete with our services. We are also aware that other technologies are being developed, for example, to turn skin cells into cells that behave like embryonic stem cells or to harvest stem cells from the pulp of baby teeth. While these and other approaches remain in early stages of development, they may one day be competitive. In addition, cord blood banks such as ViaCord, a Perkin Elmer company, or LifebankUSA, a Celgene company, easily could enter the field of adult stem cell collection because of their processing labs, storage facilities and customer lists. We estimate that, combined, there are approximately 75 cord blood banks in the U.S., approximately 36 of which are private autologous banks, meaning that the donor and recipient are the same, and approximately 39 of which are public allogeneic banks, meaning that the donor and recipient are 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS not the same. Hospitals that have transplant centers to serve cancer patients may elect to provide some or all of the services that we provide. According to the National Marrow Donor Program, there are approximately 52 hospitals in the U.S. with stem cell transplant centers. These competitors may have better experience and access to greater financial resources than do we. In addition, other established companies may enter our markets and compete with us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. NeoStem Family Storage, LLC will also have to compete with the national, public cord blood banking program, which has the support of the medical community and which receives federal funding. In this regard, NeoStem Family Storage, LLC also competes with public cord blood banks such as the New York Blood Center (National Cord Blood Program), University of Colorado Cord Blood Bank, Milan Cord Blood Bank, Dusseldorf Cord Blood Bank, and other public cord blood banks around the world. Public cord blood banks provide families with the option of donating their cord blood for public use at no cost. The Stem Cell Therapeutic Act provides financing for a national system of public cord blood banks in the United States to encourage cord blood donations from an ethnically diverse population. In addition, many states are evaluating the feasibility of establishing cord blood repositories for transplantation purposes. An increase in the number and diversity of publicly available cord blood units from public banks would increase the probability of finding suitably matched cells for a family member, which may result in a decrease in the demand for private cord blood banking. If the science of human leukocyte antigens, or HLA, typing advances, then unrelated cord blood transplantation may become safer and more efficacious, similarly reducing the clinical advantage of related cord blood transplantation. Such events could negatively affect our business and revenues. The cell therapy industry is subject to rapid and intense technological change. Our cell therapy development programs face, and will continue to face, intense competition from pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies engaged in drug discovery activities or funding, both in the United States and abroad. Some of these competitors are pursuing the development of drugs and other therapies that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting with our product candidates, including AMR-001. Amorcyte’s product candidate generally targets patients without other revascularization options. Therefore, we do not believe that Amorcyte will compete directly with pharmaceutical therapies being developed to treat less severe stages of our target indications. However, to the extent that therapies are developed that reverse the progression of the ischemic damage or improve blood flow to damaged tissue, they could have the effect of reducing demand for Amorcyte's product candidate. In addition, because Amorcyte’s product candidate may require the removal of bone marrow from the patient, potential competing products that do not require this invasive procedure may have a competitive advantage against Amorcyte products in terms of patient appeal. New pharmaceutical agents or devices that improve the repair of cardiac injury after a heart attack, with the result that fewer patients develop ischemic heart failure, would also represent a competitive threat for AMR-001. Furthermore, cell-based therapies, such as skeletal myoblasts, bone marrow-derived stem cells and adipose cells are being pursued by companies such as Aastrom Biosciences, Inc., Angioblast Systems, Inc., Athersys, Inc., Pluristem Therapeutics, Inc., ReNeuron Group, Stemedica Cell Technologies Inc. and Bioheart, Inc. Some other companies, such as Cytori and Miltenyi, are developing devices to facilitate the production of therapeutic cell populations by clinicians for the treatment of Amorcyte’s target indications. Such devices may be approved by the FDA under a less rigorous regulatory process, and less extensive clinical testing and manufacturing controls than Amorcyte is required to pursue for AMR-001. Development and approval of such a device on the basis of this more limited dataset may take less time than development of AMR-001 and substantially affect our ability to market an Amorcyte product candidate if approved. As a general matter, our Company may also face competition in the future from other companies that are researching and developing cell therapies. We are aware of many companies working in this area. Many of the companies competing against us have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater experience in testing pharmaceutical and other therapeutic products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products, and marketing and selling those products. If we obtain necessary regulatory approval and commences significant commercial sales of any products, we will also be competing with respect to manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no commercial-scale experience. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated by our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances made in the commercial applicability of our technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these fields. As a result, competitors of ours may: • develop products that are safer or more effective than ours; • obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals or reach the market with their products more rapidly than we can, reducing the potential sales of our product candidates; • develop new or improved technologies and scientific advances; • obtain patent protection that could impact our ability to market our product candidates; • devote greater resources to market or sell their products; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • recruit skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. Building market acceptance of our U.S. autologous adult stem cell collection, processing and storage services, may be more costly and take longer than we expect. The success of our U.S. autologous adult stem cell business depends on continuing and growing market acceptance of our collection, processing and storage services as well as cell therapy generally. Increasing the awareness and demand for our services requires expenditures for marketing and education of consumers and medical practitioners who, under present law, must order stem cell collection and treatment on behalf of a potential customer. The time and expense required to educate and to build awareness of our services and their potential benefits, and about cell therapy in general, could significantly delay market acceptance and our ultimate profitability. The successful commercialization of our services will also require that we satisfactorily address the concerns of medical practitioners in order to avoid resistance to recommendations for our services and ultimately reach our potential consumers. No assurances can be given that our business plan and marketing efforts will be successful, that we will be able to commercialize our services, or that there will be market or clinical acceptance of our services by potential customers or physicians, respectively, sufficient to generate any material revenues for us. To date, only a minimal number of collections have been performed at the collection centers in our network. There is a scarcity of experienced professionals in the field of cell therapy and we may not be able to retain key officers or employees or hire new key officers or employees needed to implement our business strategy and develop our products and businesses. If we are unable to retain or hire key officers or employees, we may be unable to continue to grow this business or to implement our business strategy, and our business may be materially and adversely affected. Given the specialized nature of cell therapy and the fact that it is a young field, there is an inherent scarcity of experienced personnel in the field. The Company is substantially dependent on the skills and efforts of current senior management for their management and operations, as well as for the implementation of their business strategy. As a result of the difficulty in locating qualified new management, the loss or incapacity of existing members of management or unavailability of qualified management or as replacements for management who resign or are terminated could adversely affect the Company’s operations. The future success of the Company also depends upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel (including medical, scientific, technical, commercial, business and administrative personnel) necessary to support our anticipated growth, develop our business, perform our contractual obligations to third parties and maintain appropriate licensure, on acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining personnel required by us to continue to grow our operations. The loss of a key employee, the failure of a key employee to perform in his or her current position or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, as needed, could result in our inability to continue to grow our business or to implement our business strategy, or may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS Current cell therapy products have a limited biologic shelf life as a result of which there are constraints on transit times between the time stem cells are extracted from a patient and the time that a processed product leaves our facility and arrives for re-infusion in the patient. Thus, our current business model has to assume that, in order to effectively provide many of our services in a market, we need to have a suitable facility that can provide timely service in such market. This could add significantly to our capital requirements and be a limiting factor on our future growth and profitability. Current cell therapy products have a limited shelf life, in certain instances limited to less than 12 hours. Thus, there are constraints on transit times between the time the cell product is extracted from a patient and the product arrives at one of our facilities for processing, as well as constraints on the time that a processed product leaves our facility and arrives for re-infusion in the patient. Therefore, cell therapy facilities need to be located in major population centers in which patients of the cell therapy products are likely to be located and within close proximity of major airports from which they can be timely delivered. Building new facilities requires significant commitments of time and capital, which we may not have available in a timely manner. Even if such new facilities are established, there may be challenges to ensuring that they are compliant with cGMP, other FDA requirements, and/or applicable state or local regulatory requirements. We cannot be certain that we would be able to recoup the costs of establishing a facility and attaining regulatory compliances in a given market. Thus, the limited biologic shelf life of cell therapy products is a hindrance on the rate at which we can expand our cell processing and manufacturing services into new geographic markets and requires significant capital risk by us, which we may or may not be able to recover. Commercially available transportation systems are not set up for shipment of biological or other perishable goods and may not be able to meet the demands of the emerging cell therapy market. To succeed, the large-scale commercialization of cell therapy products will need to overcome the present weaknesses of the major air carriers. Weaknesses in our existing transportation carriers include the lack of a true point-to-point chain of control, non-controlled X-ray and inspection, no guarantee of package orientation, handling or storage conditions and in many cases no standard, documented and tracked operating procedures. While reliable ground carriers with experience in the transport of blood products already exist in major metropolitan areas of the country, air carriers meeting such needs are limited. We evaluated the major domestic express carriers, and concluded that even their highest-level services are inadequate to meet the sector’s needs. However, we identified and validated only one specialty air carrier as a transportation partner, which specializes in shipping medical products, including whole blood and blood products, tissue for transplantation, and diagnostic specimens. There are presently few alternative sources for the safe transportation of cell therapy products. If this carrier should cease its medical shipping operations or otherwise be unable to properly meet our transportation needs, the lack of access to safe and effective transportation options could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to significant product liability claims and litigation, including potential exposure from the use of our Amorcyte subsidiary’s product candidates in human subjects, and our insurance may be inadequate to cover claims that may arise. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, processing and marketing of cell therapy products. Such liability claims may be expensive to defend and result in large judgments against us. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of AMR-001 and any future product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products that we may develop following requisite approvals therefor. No product candidate has been widely used over an extended period of time, and therefore safety data is limited. Cell therapy companies derive the raw materials for manufacturing of product candidates from human cell sources, and therefore the manufacturing process and handling requirements are extensive, which increases the risk of quality failures and subsequent product liability claims. We presently have product liability insurance limited to $5 million per incident and $5 million in annual aggregate. In connection with the launch of our Phase 2 clinical trial of AMR-001, a clinical trial endorsement was added to our product liability policy, including Amorcyte as an additional insured. 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS We will need to increase our insurance coverage when we begin commercializing product candidates, if ever. If and when any product enters the commercialization phase, we may not be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or at all. If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance, or if claims against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our financial position could be significantly impaired. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation that may arise, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and could result in: • decreased demand for any products or product candidates we may develop; • significant awards against us; • substantial litigation costs; • injury to our reputation; and • withdrawal of clinical trial participants. We also maintain errors and omissions, directors and officers, workers’ compensation and other insurance appropriate to our business activities. If we were to be subject to a claim in excess of this coverage or to a claim not covered by our insurance and the claim succeeded, we would be required to pay the claim from our own limited resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Additionally, liability or alleged liability could harm our business by diverting the attention and resources of our management and damaging our reputation and that of our subsidiaries. RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be unable to comply with applicable federal and state regulations, registrations and approvals or the standards of private accrediting entities. Failure to comply with applicable licensure, registration, certification, and accreditation standards may result in loss of licensure, certification or accreditation or other government enforcement actions. Facilities engaged in the recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging or distribution of any HCT/Ps, or the screening or testing of a donor, are required to register with the FDA. Any third party retained by us to process our samples must be similarly registered with the FDA and comply with HCT/P regulations. We and any third-party processors are also required to comply with FDA’s cGTP regulations. If we, or any third-party processors, fail to register or update registration information in a timely way, or fail to comply with cGTP regulations, we will be out of compliance with FDA regulations which could adversely affect our business. Adverse events or other considerations in the field of stem cell therapy that may occur could result in greater governmental regulation of our business, creating increased expenses for our stem cell collection and storage services. Our manufacture of certain cellular therapy products for ourselves or on behalf of our customers triggers additional FDA requirements applicable to HCT/Ps, or products comprised of HCT/Ps, which are regulated as a drug, biological product, or medical device. FDA or cGMP, are federal regulations that govern the manufacture, processing, packaging and holding of cell therapy products regulated as drugs. FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, similarly govern the manufacture, processing, packaging and holding of cell therapy products regulated as medical devices. We must comply with cGMP or QSR requirements including quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation for certain products. We may be unable to comply with these cGMP or QSR requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. These requirements may change over time and we or third-party manufacturers may be unable to comply with the revised requirements. We also are subject to state and federal laws regulating the proper disposal of biohazardous materials. Although we believe we are currently in compliance with all such applicable laws, a violation of such laws, or the future enactment of more stringent laws or regulations, could subject us to liability for noncompliance and may require us to incur significant costs. 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS Some states impose additional regulation and oversight on clinical laboratories and stem cell laboratories operating within their borders and impose regulatory compliance obligations on out-of-state laboratories providing services to their residents. Many of the states in which we, our strategic partners or members of our collection network, engage in collection, processing or storage activities have licensing requirements with which we must comply. Additionally, there may be state regulations affecting the use of HCT/Ps that would affect our business. Certain licensing requirements require employment of medical directors and others with certain training and technical backgrounds and there can be no assurance that such individuals can be retained or will remain retained or that the cost of retaining such individuals will not materially and adversely affect our ability to market or perform our services or our ability to do so profitably. There can be no assurance that we, our strategic partners or members of our collection center network, will be able to obtain or maintain any necessary licenses required to conduct business in any states or that the cost of compliance will not materially and adversely affect our ability to market or perform our services or our ability to do so profitably. Currently, PCT is licensed as a blood bank with respect to its activities in New Jersey, as a tissue bank with respect to its activities in New York and as a drug manufacturer with respect to its facility in California. We believe that PCT and NeoStem Family Storage, LLC are in material compliance with current federal, state, and local stem cell laboratory licensure requirements. However, the licensing requirements in the states where we are currently licensed may change, and PCT and/or NeoStem Family Storage, LLC may become subject to the additional licensing, registration and/or compliance requirements of other states, local governments and/or the federal government as PCT and/or NeoStem Family Storage, LLC expands its network and as new regulations are implemented. If we fail to comply with the various licensure requirements, certification and accreditation standards to which we are subject, we may be subject to a loss of licensure, certification, or accreditation that could adversely affect them. Additionally, certain private entities have promulgated standards for certification, accreditation and licensing of cord blood businesses that may apply to our operations. These organizations include, but may not be limited to, AABB, formerly the American Association of Blood Banks, the Foundation for the Accreditation of Cellular Therapy (FACT), and the American Association of Tissue Banks (AATB). While our compliance with the standards of these organizations currently are voluntary, in some cases compliance with such standards may be necessary for a cord blood business to be accepted and competitive in the marketplace. Compliance with these standards and obtaining the applicable accreditation, certification, or license from such private organizations can be costly and time-consuming. These accreditation, certification, or license requirements may also change and new standards may be developed. If we fail to comply with applicable standards, or fail to obtain or maintain applicable accreditations, certifications, or licenses, our business may be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able, or will have the resources, to continue to comply with regulations that govern our operations currently, or that we will be able to comply with any new regulations that may govern our operations, or that the cost of compliance will not materially and adversely affect our ability to market or perform our services or our ability to do so profitably. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil or criminal penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any materials supplied by third parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, product candidates that we may develop. Our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage business was not contemplated by many existing laws and regulations, and our ongoing compliance, therefore, is subject to interpretation and risk. Our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage service is not a medical treatment, although it involves medical procedures. Our stem cell-related business is relatively new and is not addressed by many of the regulations applicable to our field. As a result, there is often considerable uncertainty as to the applicability of regulatory requirements. Although we have devoted significant resources to ensuring compliance with those laws that we believe to be applicable, it is possible that regulators may disagree with our interpretations, prompting additional compliance requirements or even enforcement actions. 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS We believe that the adult stem cells collected, processed and stored through our collection services are properly classified under the FDA’s human cells, tissues and cellular- and tissue-based products, or HCT/P, regulatory paradigm but should not be classified as a medical device, biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not classify the adult stem cells collected, processed and stored through our collection services as a medical device, biologic or drug. Any such classification could have adverse consequences for us and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct our business by requiring regulatory clearance, approval and/or compliance with additional regulatory requirements. The costs of compliance with such additional requirements or such enforcement may have a material adverse effect on our operations or may require restructuring of our operations or impair our ability to operate profitably. If we or any of our investigators are not able to conduct the clinical trials of our product candidates in accordance with regulations and accepted standards, and on schedule, regulatory approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities may be delayed or denied. To obtain marketing approvals for our product candidates in the United States, we must, among other requirements, complete adequate and well-controlled clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate to the FDA that the product candidate is safe and effective, for each indication for which approval is sought. Several factors could prevent completion or cause significant delay of these trials, including an inability to enroll the required number of patients. Negative or inconclusive results from, or serious adverse events during, a clinical trial could cause the clinical trial to be repeated or a development program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful. A serious adverse event is an event that results in significant medical consequences, such as hospitalization, disability or death, and must be reported to the FDA. We cannot predict whether safety concerns regarding our product candidates will or will not develop. The FDA can place a clinical trial on hold if, among other reasons, it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury. If safety concerns develop, we may, or the FDA or an institutional review board may require us to, stop the affected trials before completion. One subject in the AMR-001 Phase 1 study died from ventricular fibrillation soon after infusion of the product candidate AMR-001. The ventricular fibrillation was attributed to recurrent myocardial infarction from stent thrombosis preceding AMR-001 infusion. This subject’s death resulted in a clinical hold during the Phase 1 trial. The hold was removed upon FDA’s review of the complete documentation on the patient and changes to the enrollment process that were submitted by Amorcyte. The completion of our clinical trials may be delayed or terminated for many reasons, including if: • the FDA or other regulatory authority does not grant permission to proceed and places the trial on clinical hold; • subjects do not enroll in our clinical trials at the rate expected; • subjects experience an unacceptable rate or severity of adverse side effects; • third-party clinical investigators do not perform the clinical trials on the anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices required by the FDA and other regulatory requirements, or other third parties do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • inspections of clinical trial sites by the FDA or by institutional review boards of research institutions participating in the clinical trials, reveal regulatory violations that require the sponsor of the trial to undertake corrective action, suspend or terminate one or more sites, or prohibit use of some or all of the data in support of marketing applications; or • the FDA or one or more institutional review boards suspends or terminates the trial at an investigational site, or precludes enrollment of additional subjects. Our development costs will increase if there are material delays in our clinical trials, or if we are required to modify, suspend, terminate or repeat a clinical trial. If we are unable to conduct our clinical trials properly and on schedule, marketing approval may be delayed or denied by the FDA. 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any product for which we obtain marketing approval will be subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved. Products for which we obtain marketing approval, if any, including the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, adverse event reporting, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by, the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP and cGTP requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements relating to product labeling, advertising and promotion, and recordkeeping. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the approval may be subject to additional limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other conditions of approval. In addition, approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Discovery after approval of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or manufacturing process, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as: • changes in product manufacturing processes; • restrictions on product marketing; • restrictions on product distribution; • requirements to conduct post-marketing clinical trials; • warning letters; • withdrawal of a product from the market; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • recall of products; • fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • product seizure; • injunctions; or • imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing products abroad. We may in the future seek to market AMR-001 or other product candidates outside the United States. In order to market such product candidates in the European Union and many other jurisdictions, we must submit clinical data concerning our product candidates and obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval from foreign regulators may be longer than the time required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that the product candidate be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In some cases this may include approval of the intended price to be charged for the product, if approved. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, or at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively affect the regulatory process in other 58 TABLE OF CONTENTS countries. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize any products in any market and therefore may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to support our business. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials that could expose our Company to environmental and other liability. Our PCT facility located in Allendale, New Jersey is subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, micro-organisms and various radioactive compounds used in connection with Amorcyte’s research and development activities. In the United States, these laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. No assurances can be given that accidental contamination or injury to employees, service providers and third parties from hazardous materials will not occur. We do not have insurance to cover claims arising from our use and disposal of these hazardous substances. Our insurance program does not include environmental coverage. Any regulatory exclusivity that we may obtain upon approval of AMR-001 or any other product candidates may not adequately protect our future products; accordingly, others could compete against us more directly. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the regulatory exclusivity provided by the Public Health Service Act upon approval by the FDA of a biologics license application, or BLA, for Amorcyte product candidates or other product candidates, if any. This regulatory exclusivity is new, involves complex legal and factual questions and will likely be the subject of much litigation, and court decisions may introduce uncertainty in the enforceability or scope of regulatory exclusivity provided to an approved biologic product. Therefore, enforceability or scope of any regulatory exclusivity for an approved biologic product in the United States cannot be predicted with certainty, and may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, requires that our business comply with state and federal privacy laws which increase the cost and administrative burden of providing stem cell banking services. We are subject to state and federal privacy laws related to the protection of our customers’ personal health information and state and federal laws related to the security of such personal health information and other personal data to which we would have access through the provision of our services. We are obligated to comply with privacy and security standards adopted under HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (the “HITECH Act”). As a result of the HITECH Act, our compliance burden has increased, and we will be subject to audit and enforcement by the federal government and, in some cases, enforcement by state authorities. We may also be obligated to publicly disclose wrongful disclosures or losses of personal health information. We may be required to spend substantial amounts of time and money to comply with these requirements, any regulations and licensing requirements, as well as any future legislative and regulatory initiatives. Failure by us or our business partners to comply with these or other applicable regulatory requirements or any delay in compliance may result in, among other things, injunctions, operating restrictions, and civil fines and criminal prosecution and have a material adverse effect on the marketing and sales of our services and our ability to operate profitably or at all. 59 TABLE OF CONTENTS We, our strategic partners and our customers conduct business in a heavily regulated industry. If we or one or more of our strategic partners or customers fail to comply with applicable current and future laws and government regulations, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The healthcare industry is one of the most highly regulated industries in the United States. The federal government, individual state and local governments and private accreditation organizations all oversee and monitor the activities of individuals and businesses engaged in the delivery of health care products and services. Current laws, rules and regulations that could directly or indirectly affect our ability and the ability of our strategic partners and customers to operate each of their businesses could include, without limitation, the following: • State and local licensure, registration and regulation of laboratories, the collection, processing and storage of human cells and tissue and cord blood, and the development and manufacture of pharmaceuticals and biologics; • The federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments; • Laws and regulations administered by the FDA, including the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and related laws and regulations; • The Public Health Service Act and related laws and regulations; • Laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, including the Office for Human Research Protections; • State laws and regulations governing human subject research; • Occupational Safety and Health requirements; • State and local laws and regulations dealing with the handling and disposal of medical waste; • The federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback Law and similar state laws and regulations; • Federal and state coverage and reimbursement laws and regulations, including laws and regulations administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services; • The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), including the amendments included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, commonly known as the HITECH Act, and regulations promulgated thereunder; • The federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, and state equivalents of the Stark Law; • State funding decisions on stem cell research and the development of cellular therapies; and • The Intermediate Sanctions rules of the IRS providing for potential financial sanctions with respect to “Excess Benefit Transactions” with HUMC or other tax-exempt organizations. In addition, as we expand into other parts of the world, we will need to comply with the applicable laws and regulations in such foreign jurisdictions. We have not yet thoroughly explored the requirements or feasibility of such compliance. It is possible that we may not be permitted to expand our business into one or more foreign jurisdictions. Although we intend to conduct our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and believe that we are in material compliance with applicable governmental healthcare laws and regulations, the laws and regulations affecting our business and relationships are complex, and many aspects of such relationships have not been the subject of judicial or regulatory interpretation. Furthermore, the cell therapy industry is the topic of significant government interest, and thus the laws and regulations applicable to us and our strategic partners and customers and to their business are subject to frequent change and/or reinterpretation and there can be no assurance that the laws and regulations applicable to us and our strategic partners and customers will not be amended or interpreted in a manner that adversely affects our business, financial condition, or operating results. For example, the federal government could issue tighter restrictions on private 60 TABLE OF CONTENTS cord blood banking that prevents NeoStem Family Storage, LLC from collecting cord blood for private banking. While we are not aware of any such developments or that any court or federal or state government is reviewing our operations, it is possible that such a review could result in a determination that would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Thus, there can be no assurance that we and our strategic partners and customers will be able to maintain compliance with all such healthcare laws and regulations. Failure to comply with such healthcare laws and regulations, as well as the costs associated with such compliance or with enforcement of such healthcare laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our operations or may require restructuring of our operations or impair our ability to operate profitably. It is uncertain to what extent the government, private health insurers and third-party payors will approve coverage or provide reimbursement for the therapies and products to which our services relate. Availability for such reimbursement may be further limited by an increasing uninsured population and reductions in Medicare and Medicaid funding in the United States. To the extent that the health care provider customers cannot obtain coverage or reimbursement for our therapies and products, they may elect not to provide such therapies and products to their patients and, thus, may not need our services. Further, as cost containment pressures are increasing in the health care industry, government and private payors adopt strategies designed to limit the amount of reimbursement paid to health care providers. Such cost containment measures may include: • Reducing reimbursement rates; • Challenging the prices charged for medical products and services; • Limiting services covered; • Decreasing utilization of services; • Negotiating prospective or discounted contract pricing; • Adopting capitation strategies; and • Seeking competitive bids. Similarly, the trend toward managed health care and bundled pricing for health care services in the United States, which may accelerate under the health reform legislation approved by Congress on March 23, 2010 and thereafter signed into law (“Health Reform”), could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our therapeutic products under development. We may receive a portion of our revenues from services rendered to patients enrolled in federal health care programs, such as Medicare, and we may also directly or indirectly receive revenues from federal health care programs. Federal health care programs are subject to changes in coverage and reimbursement rules and procedures, including retroactive rate adjustments. These contingencies could materially decrease the range of services covered by such programs or the reimbursement rates paid directly or indirectly for our products and services. To the extent that any health care reform favors the reimbursement of other therapies over our therapeutic products under development, such reform could affect our ability to sell our services, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues. The limitation on reimbursement available from private and government payors may reduce the demand for, or the price of, our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Additional legislation or regulation relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future which could adversely affect the revenues generated from the sale of our products and services. Furthermore, there has been a trend in recent years towards reductions in overall funding for Medicare and Medicaid. There has also been an increase in the number of people who do not have any form of health care coverage in recent years and who are not eligible for or enrolled in Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs. The extent to which the reforms brought about under Health Reform may be successful in reducing the number of such uninsured is unclear, and the reduced funding of governmental 61 TABLE OF CONTENTS programs and increase in uninsured populations could have a negative impact on the demand for our services to the extent they relate to products and services which are reimbursed by government and private payors. Health care companies have been the subjects of federal and state investigations, and we could become subject to investigations in the future. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened civil and criminal enforcement efforts. There are numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. In addition, amendments to the Federal False Claims Act, including under Health Reform, have made it easier for private parties to bring “qui tam” (whistleblower) lawsuits against companies under which the whistleblower may be entitled to receive a percentage of any money paid to the government. The Federal False Claims Act provides, in part, that an action can be brought against any person or entity that has knowingly presented, or caused to be presented, a false or fraudulent request for payment from the federal government, or who has made a false statement or used a false record to get a claim approved. The government has taken the position that claims presented in violation of the federal anti-kickback law, Stark Law or other healthcare-related laws, including laws enforced by the FDA, may be considered a violation of the Federal False Claims Act. Penalties include substantial fines for each false claim, plus three times the amount of damages that the federal government sustained because of the act of that person or entity and/or exclusion from the Medicare program. In addition, a majority of states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. We are not aware of any government investigations involving any of our facilities or management. While management believes that we are in material compliance with applicable governmental healthcare laws and regulations, any future investigations of our business or executives could cause us to incur substantial costs, and result in significant liabilities or penalties, as well as damage to our reputation. Unintended consequences of recently adopted health reform legislation in the U.S. may adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry is undergoing fundamental changes resulting from political, economic and regulatory influences. In the U.S., comprehensive programs are under consideration that seek to, among other things, increase access to healthcare for the uninsured and control the escalation of healthcare expenditures within the economy. On March 23, 2010, health reform legislation was approved by Congress and has been signed into law. While we do not believe this legislation will have a direct impact on our business, the legislation has only recently been enacted and requires the adoption of implementing regulations, which may have unintended consequences or indirectly impact our business. For instance, the scope and implications of the recent amendments pursuant to the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 (“FERA”), have yet to be fully determined or adjudicated and as a result it is difficult to predict how future enforcement initiatives may impact our business. Also, in some instances our clients may be health insurers that will be subject to limitations on their administrative expenses and new federal review of “unreasonable” rate increases which could impact the prices they pay for our services. If the legislation causes such unintended consequences or indirect impact, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislation regarding the establishment and funding of public cord blood collection and storage may adversely affect the business of NeoStem Family Storage, LLC. The Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005 established requirements for a national donor bank of cord blood and for a national network for matching cord blood to patients. The federal government has entered into contracts with the National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP) to carry out the provisions of this legislation. Under these contracts, the NMDP acts as the nation’s Cord Blood Coordinating Center and actively recruits parents for cord blood donations. The NMDP also administers the National Cord Blood Inventory (NCBI), which has a goal of collecting 150,000 cord blood units that may be used for patients throughout the United States. The legislation also authorized federal funding to support its goals and requirements. Parents may opt to donate their newborn’s cord blood to the public registry and to use the public registry if stem cells from cord blood are needed for treatment purposes. In this regard, an important advantage of the national, public cord blood collection system is that it costs nothing for patients to donate 62 TABLE OF CONTENTS their cord blood. This national, public cord blood registry has also been widely accepted and supported by the medical community, so physicians and others in the health care community may be less willing to use or recommend a private cord blood facility when public collection is available. Additionally, major medical organizations, including the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the American Medical Association (AMA), the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), and the American Society of Blood and Marrow Transplantation (ASBMT) do not recommend private storage, except in very limited instances. Further, we believe that the medical community is currently supportive of public cord blood donation and the national cord blood registry that is administered by the National Marrow Donor Program. For these reasons, a significant number of patients may choose to use to donate their cord blood to the national, public cord registry instead of privately banking cord blood. The medical community could also issue stronger recommendations and opinions that favor the use of the national registry. Therefore, the existence and proliferation of the national registry may adversely affect our business. Our success in developing future therapeutics will depend in part on establishing and maintaining effective strategic partnerships and collaborations, which may impose restrictions on our business and subject us to additional regulation. A key aspect of our business strategy is to establish strategic relationships in order to gain access to critical supplies, to expand or complement our research and development or commercialization capabilities, and to reduce the cost of research and development. There can be no assurance that we will enter into such relationships, that the arrangements will be on favorable terms or that such relationships will be successful. If any of our research partners terminate their relationship with us or fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner, our research and development activities or commercialization of our services may be substantially impaired or delayed. Relationships with licensed professionals such as physicians may be subject to state and federal laws restricting the referral of business, prohibiting certain payments to physicians, or otherwise limiting such collaborations. If our services become approved for reimbursement by government or private insurers, we could be subject to additional regulation and perhaps additional limitations on our ability to structure relationships with physicians. Additionally, state regulators may impose restrictions on the business activities and relationships of licensed physicians or other licensed professionals. For example, many states restrict or prohibit the employment of licensed physicians by for-profit corporations, or the “corporate practice of medicine.” If we fail to structure our relationships with physicians in accordance with applicable laws or other regulatory requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we do enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY There is significant uncertainty about the validity and permissible scope of patents in the biotechnological industry and we may not be able to obtain patent protection. If our patent position does not adequately protect our product candidates or any future products, others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our businesses. We own or hold exclusive rights to over 30 issued patents and over 80 pending patent applications. In January 2012, the U.S. Patent Office granted Amorcyte U.S. Patent No. 8,088,370 which expands the breadth of AMR-001 protection to include all treatments of vascular injury caused by vascular insufficiency. Given the nature of our therapeutic programs, our patents and patent applications cover certain methods of isolating, storing and using stem cells, including very small embryonic stem cells, as well as compositions and methods relating to T regulatory cells. There can be no assurance that the patent applications to which we hold rights will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued or licensed to us will not be challenged and held to be invalid or of a scope of coverage that is different from what we believe the patent’s scope to be. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we can: obtain patents to protect our own products and technologies; obtain licenses to use the technologies of third parties if necessary, which may be protected by patents; and protect our trade secrets and know-how. Our inability to obtain and rely upon patents essential to our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 63 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our ability to successfully commercialize AMR-001, or any other product candidate, depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our product candidates. Issued patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in patents being invalidated, rendered unenforceable, narrowed in scope, or enabling a third party to circumvent any such issued patents. The patent position of biotechnology companies is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has been the subject of much litigation and recent court decisions introducing uncertainty in the strength of patents owned by biotechnology companies. The legal systems of some foreign countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. The claims of the issued patents, and the claims of any patents which may issue in the future and be owned by or licensed to us, may not confer on us significant commercial protection against competing products. Also, any pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. The patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing the covered technologies. For instance, patents relating to our AMR-001 product candidate are limited to an isolated and nonexpanded population of autologous mononuclear cells enriched for CD34+ cells, which further contains a subpopulation of potent CD34+/CXCR4+ cells that have CXCR4-mediated chemotactic activity. Products that do not contain enriched CD34+/CXCR4+ cells, or which contain populations of cells that derive efficacy from a different mechanism of action, may not infringe the existing AMR-001 patents. Consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. To the extent a competitor can develop similar products using a different chemistry, these patents will not prevent others from directly competing with us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any product candidate can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of such product candidate, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. For instance, one of the patents issued to our Amorcyte subsidiary relating to its technology will expire in 2028, subject to extension of the patent term for regulatory delay for any approved product for which Amorcyte is eligible. To the extent our product candidates based on that technology are not commercialized significantly ahead of this date, or to the extent we have no other patent protection on such product candidates, those product candidates would not be protected by patents beyond 2028 and we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which may provide less protection of our competitive position. Similar considerations apply in any other country where we are prosecuting patents, have been issued patents, or have licensed patents or patent applications relating to its technology. The laws of foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do laws of the United States. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property from infringement by third parties. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce patents (including the patents of potential collaborators or licensors), which could be expensive and time consuming. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, including infringement of patents held by, or the patents of the respective potential collaborators or licensors of, our Amorcyte subsidiary. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology, duplicate our processes or services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Intellectual property litigation is costly, time-consuming, diverts the attention of management and technical personnel and could result in substantial uncertainty regarding our future viability. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection would limit our ability to develop or market our services in the future. This would also likely have an adverse effect on the revenues generated by any sale or license of such intellectual property. Furthermore, any public announcements related to such litigation or regulatory proceedings could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. 64 TABLE OF CONTENTS As a result of any infringement of our intellectual property, we may be required to file infringement claims to counter infringement or unauthorized use. The cost of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that patents used by us do not cover our technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of such patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put patent applications at risk of not issuing. Our Amorcyte subsidiary is aware of several companies that are employing stem cell sorting technology in their research and product development efforts. If these companies commercialize products that use cell sorting technology similar to Amorcyte’s, there can be no assurance that we would have a basis for initiating patent infringement proceedings or that if initiated we would prevail in such proceedings. Interference proceedings conducted within the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our Amorcyte subsidiary’s potential collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with its potential collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their intellectual property. We may be subject to costly litigation in the event our technology is claimed to infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Litigation and patent interference proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of efforts by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding or in patent litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from commercializing our products, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The research, development and commercialization activities conducted through our new Amorcyte subsidiary, including any product candidates resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties and to which Amorcyte does not hold licenses or other rights. There may be applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued, could be asserted against Amorcyte. These third parties could bring claims against Amorcyte that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against Amorcyte, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. Our Amorcyte subsidiary has not conducted an exhaustive search or analysis of third-party patent rights to determine whether its research, development or commercialization activities, including any product candidates resulting from these activities, may infringe or be alleged to infringe any third-party patent rights. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, Amorcyte may choose, or be required, to seek a license from the third party. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if Amorcyte is able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate the licensee to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to the licensee might be nonexclusive, which could result in competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be 65 TABLE OF CONTENTS prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. All of the issues described above could also affect potential collaborators to the extent our Amorcyte subsidiary has any collaborations then in place, which would also affect the success of the collaboration and therefore the success of our Company as a whole. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference or reexamination proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to its product candidates and technology. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. We may be unable to maintain our licenses, patents or other intellectual property and could lose important protections that are material to continuing our operations and growth and our ability to achieve profitability. Certain of our license agreements require us to pay license fees, royalties and milestone payments and fees for patent filings and applications. Obtaining and maintaining patent protection and licensing rights also depends, in part, on our ability to pay the applicable filing and maintenance fees. Our failure to meet financial obligations under our license agreements in a timely manner or our non-payment or delay in payment of our patent fees, could result in the loss of some or all of our rights to proprietary technology or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection. Additionally, our license agreements require us to meet certain diligence obligations in the development of the licensed products. Our failure to meet these diligence obligations under our license agreements could result in the loss of some or all of our rights under the license agreements. The loss of any or all of our intellectual property rights could materially limit our ability to develop and/or market our services, which would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, our competitive position would be impaired. A significant amount of our technology, especially regarding manufacturing processes, is unpatented and is maintained as trade secrets. The background technologies used in the development of our cell therapeutics are known in the scientific community, and it is possible to duplicate the methods that we use to create our product candidates. In an effort to protect these trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and contractors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the relationship be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and these agreements may be breached. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. A breach of confidentiality could affect our competitive position. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our Company’s competitive position. Our Amorcyte subsidiary relies on its ability to stop others from competing by enforcing its patents; however, some jurisdictions may require patent holders to grant licenses to third parties. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include Amorcyte’s product candidates including AMR-001, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities. Many countries, including some countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, most countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially 66 TABLE OF CONTENTS diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving products is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries, either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to our Amorcyte subsidiary’s respective product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities, including with respect to any future revenues which may result from AMR-001. Changes to U.S. Patent Law may have a material adverse effect on our intellectual property rights. The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (AIA), which was signed into law on September 16, 2011, significantly changes United States patent law. It may take some time to establish what the law means, since regulations that will govern how the new law is implemented have not yet been established, and since the law has not yet been implemented, it has not yet been interpreted by the lower courts, and reviewed by either the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals or the Supreme Court, a process that will take years. The first major change is that AIA switches the U.S. patent system from a “first to invent” system to a “first to file” system. Once the first to file system is in effect, there is a risk that another company may independently develop identical or similar patents at approximately the same time, and be awarded the patents instead of us. Once “first to file” is implemented, there will no longer be a need to determine who is the inventor of an invention. As a result, for the second major change, AIA abolishes interference proceedings, and establishes derivation proceedings to replace interference proceedings in all cases in which the time period for instituting an interference proceeding has not lapsed where an inventor named in an earlier application derived the claimed invention from a named inventor. Once derivation proceedings are in effect, there is a risk that the inventorship of any pending patent application can be challenged for reasons of derivation. The third major change is that AIA establishes post-grant opposition proceedings that will apply to patent applications filed after “first to file” becomes effective. Post-grant opposition will enable a person who is not the patent owner to initiate proceedings in the Patent office within 9 months after the grant of a patent that can result in cancellation of a patent as invalid. Therefore there is a risk that any of our patents once granted after the effective date of these provisions of the new law (March 16, 2013) may be subject to post-grant opposition, which will increase uncertainty on the validity of any newly granted patent or can ultimately result in cancellation of the patent. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Our operations are subject to risks associated with emerging markets. The Chinese economy is not well established and is only recently emerging and growing as a significant market for consumer goods and services. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the market will continue to grow. Perceived risks associated with investing in China, or a general disruption in the development of China’s markets could materially and adversely affect the business, operating results and financial condition of Erye and us. A significant portion of our assets are currently located in the PRC, and investors may not be able to enforce federal securities laws or their other legal rights. A substantial portion of our assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors in the U.S. to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon certain of our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties against our directors and officers located outside of the U.S. The PRC government has the ability to exercise significant influence and control over our operations in China. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of corporate governance practices in business enterprises. However, many productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development by imposing business regulations. It also exercises significant control over the country’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 67 TABLE OF CONTENTS There can be no assurance that China’s economic, political or legal systems will not develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our activities may be materially and adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the government, such as measures to control inflation, changes in the rates or method of taxation and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Additional factors that we may experience in connection with having operations in China that may adversely affect our business and results of operations include: • our inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any material agreements; • PRC restrictions on foreign investment that could impair our ability to conduct our business or acquire or contract with other entities in the future; • restrictions on currency exchange that may limit our ability to use cash flow most effectively or to repatriate our investment; • fluctuations in currency values; • cultural, language and managerial differences that may reduce our overall performance; and • political instability in China. Cultural, language and managerial differences may adversely affect our overall performance. We have experienced difficulties in assimilating cultural, language and managerial differences with our subsidiaries in China. Personnel issues have developed in consolidating management teams from different cultural backgrounds. In addition, language translation issues from time to time have caused miscommunications. These factors make the management of our operations in China more difficult. Difficulties in coordinating the efforts of our U.S.-based management team with our China-based management team may cause our business, operating results and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to enforce our rights in China. China’s legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors. The legal system in China is evolving rapidly, and enforcement of laws is inconsistent. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws or enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. China’s legal system is based on civil law or written statutes and a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that must be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of Chinese laws may vary to reflect domestic political changes. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application to our business of PRC laws and regulations, since many of the rules and regulations that companies face in China are not made public. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that apply to future businesses may be applied retroactively to existing businesses. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. The laws of China are likely to govern many of our material agreements, including, without limitation the Joint Venture Agreement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our interests or our material agreements or that expected remedies will be available. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our businesses in China are subject to government regulation that limit or prohibit direct foreign investment, limiting our ability to control these businesses, and making future pursuit of these businesses inadvisable. The PRC government has imposed regulations in various industries, including medical research and the stem cell business, that limit foreign investors’ equity ownership or prohibit foreign investments altogether in companies that operate in such industries. As a result, our ability to control our existing China-based business historically was limited. 68 TABLE OF CONTENTS If the relevant Chinese authorities find us or any business combination to be in violation of any laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation: (i) levying fines; (ii) revoking our business and other licenses; (iii) requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and (iv) requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. In December 2011, China’s Ministry of Health announced its intention to more tightly regulate stem cell clinical trials and the use of stem cell therapeutic treatments in the PRC. As a result of this and the factors noted above, the Company has determined to take steps to restrict, and expects to ultimately eliminate, its regenerative medicine business in the PRC. Early termination of cooperative relationship with local hospitals due to tightened and uncertain regulatory environment may subject us to damages for the hospitals' direct and indirect losses; we may suffer other costs related to our winding down of our China regenerative medicine activities. On December 16, 2011, the SFDA and Ministry of Health (“MOH”) jointly issued a notice to halt unproven stem-cell clinical trials and suspend new application for stem-cell clinical trials until July 1, 2012. This ban has significantly added risk associated with our operation in China. Given the nature and extent of such notice as well as recent tightening in Chinese government’s scrutiny of VIE structures in the prohibited business sectors, we are seeking to unilaterally terminate our cooperative agreements with local hospitals on cell-based therapies prior to the end of their term. In the event of a claim of default by the hospitals, we may be liable for damages for those hospitals’ direct and indirect losses resulting from our early termination of the cooperative agreements. Although the cooperative agreements provide that either side may terminate the agreements due to a force majeure event that includes adverse changes in government regulations directly affecting the performance of these agreements, the hospitals might claim that the aforesaid change and uncertainty of the regulatory environment does not constitute a force majeure event. In such event, we may need to litigate whether we had legitimate grounds to early terminate the agreements, which would be subject to the determination in a Chinese venue. We could also be exposed to other costs associated with the winding down of our PRC regenerative medicine business such as employee severance costs. We may suffer losses if we cannot utilize our assets in China. The Company’s Beijing laboratory facility was originally intended for stem cell research and development, but has been equipped to provide comprehensive cell manufacturing, collection, processing and storage capabilities to enable the PCT business model to launch in the PRC and provide cells for clinical trials. The lease for this facility expires in May 2012 and the Company is considering its options with respect to extending this lease to allow for manufacturing for clinical trials in Asia. If the Company does not determine to renew the lease due to limitations on its utility under the new regulatory initiatives in China or otherwise, the Company may incur certain expenses in connection with returning the premises to the landlord. The PRC government does not permit direct foreign investment in stem cell research and development businesses. Accordingly, we operate these businesses through local companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have controlling equity ownership. PRC regulations prevent foreign companies from directly engaging in stem cell-related research, development and commercial applications in China. Therefore, to perform these activities, we operate our current stem cell-related business in China through domestic variable interest entities, or VIEs: Tianjin Niou Bio-Technology Ltd., or Tianjin Neo Bio-Technology, and Beijing Ruijieao Bio-Technology Ltd., or Beijing Ruijieao, each a Chinese domestic company controlled by the Chinese employees of NeoStem (China), Inc., our wholly foreign-owned entity, or the WFOE, through various business agreements, referred to, collectively, as the VIE documents. Tianjin Neo-Biotechnology conducts operations formerly conducted by another Company VIE, Qingdao Neo Biotechnology. We control these companies and operate these businesses through contractual arrangements with the companies and their individual owners, but we have no direct equity ownership or control over these companies. Our contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, the VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business or fail to conduct business in the manner we desire despite their contractual obligation to do so. These companies are able to transact business with parties not affiliated with us. If these companies fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which may 69 TABLE OF CONTENTS not be effective. In addition, we cannot be certain that the individual equity owners of the VIEs would always act in our best interests, especially if they have no other relationship with us. Although other foreign companies have used WFOEs and VIE structures similar to ours and such arrangements are not uncommon in connection with business operations of foreign companies in China in industry sectors in which foreign direct investments are limited or prohibited, recently there has been greater scrutiny by the business community of the VIE structure and, additionally, the application of a VIE structure to control companies in a sector in which foreign direct investment is specifically prohibited carries increased risks. For example, if our structure is deemed in violation of PRC law, the PRC government could revoke the business license of the WFOE, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our business, corporate structure or operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us. We may also encounter difficulties in enforcing related contracts. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors in August 2011, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular No. 6. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules came into effect on September 1, 2011 and replaced the Interim Provisions of the Ministry of Commerce on Matters Relating to the Implementation of the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated by MOFCOM in March 2011. According to these circulars and rules, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors having “national defense and security” concerns and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire the “de facto control” of domestic enterprises having “national security” concerns. In addition, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to the security review, the MOFCOM will look into the substance and actual impact of the transaction. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules further prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. There is no explicit provision or official interpretation stating that our business falls into the scope subject to the security review, and there is no requirement for foreign investors in those mergers and acquisitions transactions already completed prior to the promulgation of Circular No. 6 to submit such transactions to MOFCOM for security review. The enactment of the MOFCOM National Security Review Rules specifically prohibits circumvention of the rules through VIE arrangement in the area of foreign investment in business of national security concern. Although we believe that our business, judging from its scale, should not cause any concern for national security review at its current state, there is no assurance that MOFCOM would not apply the same concept of anti-circumvention in the future to foreign investment in prohibited areas through VIE structure, the same way that our investment in China was structured. For so long as we own an interest in Erye, we expect to rely, in part, on dividends paid by Erye to supply cash flow for our U.S. business, and statutory or contractual restrictions may limit their ability to pay dividends to us. For so long as we own an interest in Erye, we intend to rely partly on dividends paid to us under the October 2009 Joint Venture Agreement, attributable to our 51% ownership interest in Erye, to meet our future cash needs. Pursuant to the Joint Venture Agreement that governs the ownership and management of Erye, for the three-year period commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter after the Joint Venture Agreement became effective distributions are made as follows: (i) 49% of undistributed profits (after tax) will be distributed to EET and loaned back to Erye for use in connection with its construction of the new Erye facility (to be repaid gradually after construction is completed); (ii) 45% of the net profit after tax will be 70 TABLE OF CONTENTS provided to Erye as part of the new facility construction fund, which will be characterized as paid-in capital for our 51% interest in Erye; and (iii) only 6% of the net profit will be distributed to us directly for our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized under PRC law to non-PRC entities is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends Erye only out of accumulated distributable earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Moreover, Erye is required to appropriate from PRC GAAP profit after tax to other non-distributable reserve funds. These reserve funds include one or more of the following: (i) a general reserve, (ii) an enterprise expansion fund and (iii) a staff bonus and welfare fund. Subject to certain cumulative limits (i.e., 50% of the registered capital of relevant company), the general reserve fund requires annual appropriation at 10% of after tax profit (as determined under accounting principles generally accepted in the PRC at each year-end); the appropriation to the other funds are at the discretion of Erye. In addition, if Erye incurs additional debt on its own behalf to finance the building of the new facility in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict Erye’s or the joint venture’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. This may diminish the cash flow we receive from Erye’s operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively. Our interests in China will be subject to China’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In particular, the initial capitalization and operating expenses of the VIEs are funded by our WFOE. In China, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, regulates the conversion of the Chinese Renminbi into foreign currencies and the conversion of foreign currencies into Chinese Renminbi. Currently, foreign investment enterprises are required to apply to the SAFE for Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates, or IC Cards of Enterprises with Foreign Investment. Foreign investment enterprises holding such registration certificates, which must be renewed annually, are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “basic account” and “capital account.” Currency translation within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investments, loans, and securities, require approval of the SAFE. According to the Notice of the General Affairs Department of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises promulgated on August 29, 2008, or the SAFE Notice 142, to apply to a bank for settlement of foreign currency capital, a foreign invested enterprise shall submit the documents certifying the uses of the RMB funds from the settlement of foreign currency capital and a detailed checklist on use of the RMB funds from the last settlement of foreign currency capital. It is stipulated that only if the funds for the settlement of foreign currency capital are of an amount not more than US$50,000 and are to be used for enterprise reserve, the above documents may be exempted by the bank. This SAFE Notice 142, along with the recent practice of Chinese banks of restricting foreign currency conversion for fear of “hot money” going into China, limits and may continue to limit our ability to channel funds to the VIE entities for their operation. There can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Chinese currency. Future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our stockholders or to fund operations we may have outside of China, which could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our operating results. We prepare our financial statements in U.S. dollars, while our underlying businesses operate in two currencies, U.S. dollars and Chinese Renminbi. It is anticipated that our Chinese operations will conduct their operations primarily in Renminbi and our U.S. operations will conduct their operations in dollars. At the present time, we do not expect to have significant cross currency transactions that will be at risk to foreign currency exchange rates. Nevertheless, the conversion of financial information using a functional currency of Renminbi will be subject to risks related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and supply and demand in local markets. As we have 71 TABLE OF CONTENTS significant operations in China, and will rely principally on revenues earned in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi could materially and adversely affect our financial results. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Beginning in July of 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the value of the Renminbi has fluctuated within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. However, the Chinese government has come under increasing U.S. and international pressure to revalue the Renminbi or to permit it to trade in a wider band, which many observers believe would lead to substantial appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other major currencies. There can be no assurance that Renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar. On June 19, 2010 the central bank of China announced that it will gradually modify its monetary policy and make the Renminbi’s exchange rate more flexible and allow the Renminbi to appreciate in value in line with its economic strength. Erye’s manufacturing operations in China may be adversely affected by changes in PRC government policies regarding ownership of assets and allocation of resources to various industries and companies. While the PRC government has implemented economic and market reforms, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Should the PRC government change its policies regarding economic growth and private ownership of manufacturing and other assets of Erye, we may lose rights to certain business assets and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed. China’s State Food and Drug Administration’s regulations may limit our ability to develop, license, manufacture and market our products and services. Some or all of our operations in China will be subject to oversight and regulation by the PRC’s State Food and Drug Administration (“SFDA”). Government regulations, among other things, cover the inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental considerations, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Such government regulations may increase our costs and prevent or delay the licensing, manufacturing and marketing of any of our products or services. In the event we seek to license, manufacture, sell or distribute new products or services, we likely will need approvals from certain government agencies such as the SFDA. The future growth and profitability of any operations in China would be contingent on obtaining the requisite approvals. There can be no assurance that we will obtain such approvals. In 2004, the SFDA implemented new guidelines for the licensing of pharmaceutical products. All existing manufacturers with licenses were required to apply for the Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, certifications. Erye has received the requisite certifications. However, should Erye fail to maintain its cGMP certifications or fail to obtain cGMP and other certifications for its new production facilities, this would have a material adverse effect on Erye’s and our business, results of operations and financial condition. According to Good Manufacturing Practices for Pharmaceutical Products (revised edition 2010), or the New GMP Rules promulgated by the Ministry of Health of the PRC on January 17, 2011 which became effective on March 1, 2011, all the newly constructed manufacturing facilities of drug manufacture enterprises in China shall comply with the requirements of the New GMP Rules, which are stricter than the original GMP standards. Therefore, should Erye fail to maintain its cGMP certifications in accordance with the New GMP Rules for its new production facilities, this would have a material adverse effect on Erye’s and our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, delays, product recalls or failures to receive approval may be encountered based upon additional government regulation, legislative changes, administrative action or changes in governmental policy and interpretation applicable to the Chinese pharmaceutical industry. Our pharmaceutical activities also may subject us to government regulations with respect to product prices and other marketing and promotional 72 TABLE OF CONTENTS related activities. Government regulations may substantially increase our costs for developing, licensing, manufacturing and marketing any products or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The SFDA and other regulatory authorities in China have implemented a series of new punitive and stringent measures regarding the pharmaceuticals industry to redress certain past misconducts in the industry and certain deficiencies in public health reform policies. Given the nature and extent of such new enforcement measures, the aggressive manner in which such enforcement is being conducted and the fact that newly-constituted local level branches are encouraged to issue such punishments and fines, there is the possibility of large scale and significant penalties being levied on manufacturers. These new measures may include fines, restriction and suspension of operations and marketing and other unspecified penalties. This new regulatory environment has added significantly to the risks of our businesses in China and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes to PRC policies regarding drug pricing have had a material adverse effect on Erye’s and our results of operations and financial condition and may continue to do so. Erye’s financial performance is heavily dependent on government pricing policies and procedures, which are subject to change. The Rules on Introduction of Suzhou’s Local Enterprises Produced Drugs into Suzhou’s Local Medical Insurance Drugs Catalogue, which was promulgated in 2006, may soon cease to be effective. The cancellation of such Rules would likely reduce Erye’s sales and profits. On March 2, 2011, the National Development and Reform Commission issued price cuts for drugs covered by national medical insurance which substantially impacts two of Erye’s drugs. It is anticipated that the price of Piperacillin Sodium Sulbactum Sodium will decrease by 50% and the price of Ligustrazine Phosphate will be cut by 75%; in 2011 the price reduction experienced by Erye on these products was approximately 24%. In 2011 Piperacillin Sodium Sulbactum Sodium accounted for approximately 5% of sales and Ligustrazine Phosphate accounted for approximately 1% of sales. These policies regarding drug pricing and the resulting price reductions experienced by Erye will likely negatively affect the offers presented to us in connection with the divestiture of our 51% interest in Erye that we are pursuing. PRC policies limiting the use of antibiotics may have a material adverse effect on Erye’s and our results of operations and financial condition. Recently, the PRC Ministry of Health issued, for public comment, a draft policy “Administrative Measures on Clinical Use of Antibiotics” to curb their overuse. The proposed guidelines set forth three categories of antibiotics, which include (1) restricted, (2) non-restricted, and (3) special-use only. According to the October 12, 2011 China Healthcare report published by Deutsche Bank, AG (the “China Healthcare report”), it has been projected that the limitation of antibiotic usage in China will reduce the historical compound annual growth rate which has been approximately 20%. According to the China Healthcare report, it has been estimated that China’s population consumes about ten times the global per capita average of antibiotics. These regulations have not been finalized but issuance of a draft policy has created uncertainty on the part of distributors and has reduced purchases by distributors and in part has contributed to sales reductions in 2011. This draft policy regarding antibiotic use and the uncertainty that has been created will likely negatively affect the offers that have been presented to us. Erye’s production is concentrated in a small number of production lines and Erye is operating in a new facility. Erye began transferring its operations to its new manufacturing facility in January 2010. The construction of this facility is substantially complete. The relocation and new production lines have been completed and have received cGMP certification. To date Erye has received the following SFDA cGMP certifications: • solvent crystallization sterile penicillin • freeze dried raw sterile penicillin • penicillin • cephalosporin powder for injection 73 TABLE OF CONTENTS • freeze dried powder for injection • its capsule line. Erye’s production is concentrated in a small number of production lines. Any interruptions in production with respect to those lines will have a material adverse effect on Erye’s business and ours. In China, we may conduct research and development activities related to cell therapy in cooperation with a domestic Chinese company. If these activities are regarded by PRC government authorities as “human genetic resources research and development activities,” additional approvals by PRC government authorities will be required. Our research and development activities in cell therapy in China may be conducted in cooperation with Beijing Ruijieao Biotechnology Ltd. Pursuant to the Interim Measures for the Administration of Human Genetic Resources, or the Measures, that took effect on June 10, 1998, China maintains a reporting and registration system on important pedigrees and genetic resources in specified regions. All entities and individuals involved in sampling, collecting, researching, developing, trading or exporting human genetic resources or taking such resources outside China must abide by the Measures. “Human genetic resources” refers to genetic materials such as human organs, tissues, cells, blood specimens, preparations or any type of recombinant DNA constructs, which contain human genome, genes or gene products as well as to the information related to such genetic materials. It is possible that our research and development activities conducted by the Lab in cooperation with us in China may be regarded by PRC government authorities as human genetic resources research and development activities, and thus will be subject to approval by PRC government authorities. The sharing of patents or other corresponding intellectual property rights derived from such research and development operations is also subject to various restrictions and approval requirements established under the Measures. With regard to the ownership of intellectual property rights derived from human genetic resources research and development, the Measures provide that the China-based research and development institution shall have priority access to information about the human genetic resources within China, particularly the important pedigrees and genetic resources in the specified regions and the relevant data, information and specimens and any transfer of such human genetic resources to other institutions shall be prohibited without obtaining corresponding approval from the Human Genetic Resource Administration Office of China, among other governmental authorities or agencies. No foreign collaborating institution or individual that has access to the above-mentioned information may publicize, publish, apply for patent rights or disclose it by any other means without obtaining government approval. In a collaborative research and development project involving human genetic resources of China between any Chinese and foreign institutions, intellectual property rights shall be allocated according to the following principles: (i) patent rights shall be jointly applied for by both parties and the resulting patent rights shall be owned by both parties if an achievement resulting from the collaboration is patentable; (ii) either party has the right to exploit such patent separately or jointly in its own country, subject to the terms of the collaboration; however, the transfer of such patent to any third party or authorizing any third party to implement such patent shall be carried out upon agreement of both parties, and the benefits obtained thereof shall be shared in accordance with their respective contributions; and (iii) the right of utilizing, transferring and sharing any other scientific achievement resulted from the collaboration shall be specified in the collaborative contract or agreement signed by both parties. Both parties are equally entitled to make use of the achievement which is not specified in the collaborative contract or agreement; however, the transfer of such achievement to any third party shall be carried out upon agreement of both parties, and the benefits obtained thereof shall be shared in accordance with their respective contributions. If the research and development operations conducted by the Lab in cooperation with us in China are regarded by PRC government authorities as human genetic resources research and development activities, we may be required to obtain approval from PRC governmental authorities to continue such operations and the Measures may adversely affect our rights to intellectual property developed from such operations. Our inability to access intellectual property, or our inability to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, or at all, could materially and adversely affect our operations in China, and our operating results and financial condition. 74 TABLE OF CONTENTS Some of the laws and regulations governing our business in China are vague and subject to risks of interpretation. Some of the PRC laws and regulations governing our business operations in China are vague and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations governing our business and the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. Despite their uncertainty, we will be required to comply. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed businesses may be applied retroactively. Accordingly, the effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may not be clear. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. In addition, pursuant to China’s Administrative Measures on the Foreign Investment in Commercial Sector, foreign enterprises are permitted to establish or invest in wholly foreign-owned enterprises or joint ventures that engage in wholesale or retail sales of pharmaceuticals in China subject to the implementation of relevant regulations. However, no specific regulations in this regard have been promulgated to date, which creates uncertainty. If specific regulations are not promulgated, or if any promulgated regulations contain clauses that cause an adverse impact to our operations in China, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The laws and regulations governing the therapeutic use of stem cells in China are evolving. New PRC laws and regulations may impose conditions or requirements which could materially and adversely affect our business. As the stem cell therapy industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the stem cell therapy industry. There is no way to predict the content or scope of future Chinese stem cell regulation. There can be no assurance that the PRC government authorities will not issue new laws or regulations that impose conditions or requirements with which we cannot comply. Noncompliance could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. On December 16, 2011, China’s Ministry of Health announced its intention to more tightly regulate stem cell clinical trials and stem cell therapeutic treatments in the PRC. The Ministry of Health ordered an immediate halt to “unapproved stem cell clinical trials and applications,” and put applications for new stem cell trials on hold until July 1, 2012. For those clinical trials for stem cell products already approved by the SFDA, the Clinical Trial Approval Instructions and the Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, shall be strictly followed, with unwarranted changes to the approved clinical trial protocol and profit-seeking activities strictly forbidden. As a result of this and other factors, the Company has determined to take steps to restrict, and expects to ultimately eliminate, its regenerative medicine business in the PRC. We are currently investigating the potential impact of the Ministry of Health’s announcement, as well as other regulatory initiatives and regulations in China, on potential PRC-based operations through our Beijing Facility. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other PRC government authorities if we or our PRC employees fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by offshore listed companies to PRC citizens. On April 6, 2007, the SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company,” referred to as Circular 78. It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from the SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with the SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. The 2009 Non-U.S. Plan authorizes the grant of certain equity 75 TABLE OF CONTENTS awards to our officers, directors and employees, some of whom are PRC citizens. Circular 78 may require our officers, directors and employees who receive option grants and are PRC citizens to register with the SAFE. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our officers, directors and employees through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. There can be no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES We anticipate that we will need substantial additional financing in the future to continue our operations. If we are unable to raise additional capital as needed, we may be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our product development programs, cell therapy initiatives or commercialization efforts. We anticipate that we will require additional capital to fund our current operating plan, including our existing U.S.-based cell therapy operations (such as clinical trials of AMR-001, development of our VSELTM technology and a T-cell therapeutic, our stem cell collection and storage business, and our cell manufacturing and processing operations). Our research and development expenses have increased with the addition to our Company of our Amorcyte subsidiary, particularly as the Phase 2 clinical trial enrolls with respect to AMR-001. AMR-001 is in the development stage and will require significant investment before it can be commercialized. We anticipate that AMR-001 will not be commercially available for a number of years, if ever. Even if we raise additional capital in the event that Amorcyte’s Phase 2 clinical trial of AMR-001 produces positive results, it is anticipated that it will be necessary to enter into one or more collaboration agreements with one or more third parties to conduct and fund additional clinical trials, including larger, potentially pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials. If we are not able to enter into collaboration agreements on terms that are acceptable to us, we will need to raise additional capital to fund these trials or otherwise delay or abandon the trials. In addition, subject to obtaining regulatory approval of any present or future Amorcyte product candidate, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses for product sales and marketing. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • The scope, progress and results of our historic cell therapy research, development, processing and manufacturing programs (including any revenues generated by our subsidiary PCT) and our adult and cord blood stem cell collection and storage business; • the scope, progress, results, costs, timing and outcomes of the clinical trials of AMR-001 and any other product candidates; • the scope, progress and results of other development programs being conducted by our Amorcyte subsidiary; • the timing of entering into, and the terms of, any collaboration agreements with one or more third parties for one or more product candidates; 76 TABLE OF CONTENTS • the timing of and the costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates, a process which could be particularly lengthy or complex given the FDA’s limited experience with marketing approval for cell therapy products; • the costs of operating, expanding and enhancing our manufacturing facilities and capabilities to support our clinical activities and, if any product candidates are approved, our commercialization activities; • the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including potential litigation costs and liabilities; • revenues received from sales of our product candidates, if approved by the FDA; and • if and when there is a divestiture of Erye. We would likely seek such funding through public or private financings or some combination of the two. We may also raise capital by selling shares of our Common Stock to Aspire Capital pursuant to the terms of our Purchase Agreement with Aspire Capital, as described below. We may also seek funding through collaborative arrangements if we determine them to be necessary or appropriate. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we obtain capital through collaborative arrangements, these arrangements could require us to relinquish rights to the combined company’s technology or product candidates and could result in our receiving only a portion of the revenues associated with the partnered product. If we raise capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, it would result in dilution to our then existing stockholders. Issuances of our securities in connection with any future capital raise may additionally cause antidilution adjustments to our outstanding Series E 7% Senior Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series E Preferred Stock” or the “Series E Preferred Shares”) and to the warrants issued in connection therewith. If we raise additional capital through the incurrence of indebtedness, the documents governing the terms of such debt would likely contain terms restricting our business activities, and holders of debt instruments would have rights and privileges senior to those of our equity investors. In addition, servicing the interest and principal repayment obligations under debt facilities could divert funds that would otherwise be available to support research and development, clinical or commercialization activities. Our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned because of expenses relating to marketing, advertising, sales, distribution, research and development and regulatory affairs (including the expenses related to clinical trials), as well as the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including potential litigation costs and liabilities. See also the discussion above under the caption “Erye may require additional lines of credit and bank loans.” Additional financing may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our inability to obtain necessary capital or financing to fund these needs could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market price and trading volume of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile and issuances of large amounts of shares of our Common Stock could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. As of March 5, 2012, there were 114,348,438 shares of our Common Stock outstanding. In 2011, our Common Stock traded as low as $0.43 and as high as $2.10, and in 2010 traded as low as $1.10 and as high as $3.50. In addition to our low stock trading volume, some of the other factors which may contribute to our stock’s price volatility include the issuance of a significant number of shares of our Common Stock or securities convertible into Common Stock in a short period of time, announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by us or by our competition, the status of our clinical trials, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results, our success in commercializing our business, market conditions for cell therapy stocks or healthcare stocks in general as well as economic recession. We cannot assure you that the market price of our shares of Common Stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares of Common Stock include those set forth under “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”. 77 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any adverse development relating to any of our product candidates, such as a significant clinical trial failure, could substantially depress our stock price and prevent us from raising additional capital. Of particular note, our Company's development will be significantly dependent on our product candidates, and on the status and results of our clinical trials. Any clinical, regulatory or other development that significantly delays or prevents us from completing any of our trials, any material safety issue or adverse side effect to any study participant in any of these trials, or the failure of these trials to show the results expected would likely depress our stock price significantly and could prevent us from raising the substantial additional capital our Company will need to further develop our product candidates and technologies. Moreover, any material adverse occurrence in early-phase clinical trials could substantially impair our ability to initiate additional clinical trials to test our product candidates, whether for new indications or otherwise. This, in turn, could adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital and pursue our planned research and development efforts. The nature of the business of our Amorcyte subsidiary could subject the trading prices of our Common Stock to additional volatility. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. While the market price of our Common Stock has been historically volatile, the clinical trials and additional development activities being undertaken through our Amorcyte subsidiary may contribute to additional volatility of the market price of our Common Stock, as investors react to the results of these clinical trials of product candidates and those of our competitors. In addition to the foregoing, factors that could contribute to enhanced volatility of our stock price include: • regulatory or legal developments in the United States and foreign countries; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • announcements by the Company of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock by current stockholders; • sales of our securities by insiders and large stockholders; • additions or departures of key personnel; • intellectual property, product liability or other litigation against us; • expiration or termination of our potential relationships with collaborators; and • the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition, in the past stockholders have initiated class action lawsuits against biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of these companies’ stock. Such litigation, if instituted against our Company, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 78 TABLE OF CONTENTS Existing stockholders will experience dilution upon the issuance of Common Stock upon the conversion or in connection with redemption or dividend payments under our Series E Preferred Shares, if we issue additional equity securities in future fundraising transactions and if shares of our Common Stock underlying our significant number of outstanding warrants and options are purchased by the holders thereof. The issuance of Common Stock as mandatory redemption payments, dividend payments or upon conversion of some or all of our Series E Preferred Shares issued in November 2010 will dilute the ownership interests of our existing holders of our shares of Common Stock (as of March 5, 2012, 6,270,821 Series E Preferred shares were outstanding, convertible into an aggregate of 3,823,671 shares of our Common Stock). We are permitted to make each monthly mandatory redemption payment in shares of our Common Stock (at a discounted formula price), cash, or a combination of the two, subject to the terms governing our Series E Preferred Shares. In the past, we have elected to pay a portion (if not all) of each mandatory redemption payment in shares of our Common Stock, and may continue to do so. Although the dollar amount of such redemption payments are known, to the extent paid in shares of our Common Stock, the number of shares to be issued in connection with such redemption payments fluctuates based on our stock price. Any sales or perceived sales in the public market of our shares of Common Stock issuable upon such mandatory redemption payments or upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our shares of Common Stock. The issuance of Common Stock upon conversion of the Series E Preferred Shares or upon such redemption payments may also have the effect of reducing our net income per share. In addition, the existence of the Series E Preferred Shares may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Series E Preferred Shares or the existence of the redemption payments could depress the market price of our shares of Common Stock. The number of shares issuable upon conversion of the Series E Preferred Shares is subject to weighted average antidilution adjustment. If in the future we issue additional Common Stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock, our stockholders will experience additional dilution, and any such issuances may result in downward pressure on the price of our Common Stock. In addition, we have a significant number of outstanding securities convertible into, or allowing the purchase of our Common Stock. Investors will be subject to increased dilution upon conversion of our outstanding Series B preferred stock and upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants. There were 114,348,438 shares of our Common Stock outstanding as of March 5, 2012. As of that date, Series B preferred stock outstanding could be converted into 10,000 shares of our Common Stock and stock options and warrants outstanding represented an additional 58,685,091 shares of our Common Stock that could be issued in the future. The number of shares issuable upon exercise of warrants issued with the Series E Preferred Stock are subject to weighted average antidilution adjustment. Most of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, as well as the vast majority of the shares of our Common Stock that may be issued under our outstanding options and warrants, are not restricted from trading or have the contractual right to be registered. Also, the issuance of additional shares as a result of such conversion or purchase, or their subsequent sale, could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. Any significant increase in the number of shares offered for sale could cause the supply of our Common Stock available for purchase in the market to exceed the purchase demand for our Common Stock. Such supply in excess of demand could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. Any sales of our Common Stock to Aspire Capital pursuant to our Purchase Agreement may cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and the sale of the shares of Common Stock acquired by Aspire Capital could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline. On September 28, 2011, we entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with Aspire Capital Fund, LLC (“Aspire Capital”). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, we have a right to sell to Aspire Capital up to a maximum of 100,000 shares of our Common Stock per day, which total may be increased by mutual agreement up to an additional 1,000,000 shares per day. In addition, under certain circumstances we also have the right to sell to Aspire Capital an amount of stock equal to up to 30% of the aggregate shares of our Common Stock traded on the NYSE Amex on the next business day, 79 TABLE OF CONTENTS subject to a maximum number of shares determined by us. However, we may only effect sales of shares of our Common Stock to Aspire Capital pursuant to the Purchase Agreement (up to a maximum of $20 million in the aggregate) on a business day on which the closing sale price of our Common Stock is not less than 75% of the closing sale price of our Common Stock (rounded down to the nearest penny) on the business day immediately preceding the date the Purchase Agreement was executed. The extent to which we rely on Aspire Capital as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors, including the prevailing market price of our Common Stock and the extent to which we are able and desire to secure working capital from other sources. The aggregate number of shares that we can sell to Aspire Capital under the Purchase Agreement may in no case exceed 15,282,502 shares of our Common Stock (plus the 990,099 Commitment Shares previously issued), unless shareholder approval is obtained to issue more. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale to Aspire Capital under the Purchase Agreement is dependent upon the number of shares we elect to sell to Aspire Capital, if any, under the Purchase Agreement. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, sales of shares of our Common Stock under the Purchase Agreement may cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline. Aspire Capital may ultimately purchase all, some or none of the $20.0 million of Common Stock that we may sell to Aspire Capital pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. After Aspire Capital acquires any shares under the Purchase Agreement, it may sell all, some or none of those shares. Sales to Aspire Capital by us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our Common Stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock to Aspire Capital, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to Aspire Capital and the Purchase Agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. Future sales of a significant number of our shares of Common Stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress the market price of our shares of Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of our shares of Common Stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress the market price of our shares of Common Stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. It is anticipated that the holders of our Series E Preferred Shares will be selling any shares of Common Stock issued to them as mandatory redemption shares on each mandatory redemption date. In addition, a substantial number of shares of Common Stock are being offered by the Selling Stockholders under our effective Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-173853) and we cannot predict if and when the Selling Stockholders may sell such shares of Common Stock in the public markets. As of January 20, 2012, one-half of the base stock consideration issued in connection with the PCT Merger had been released from escrow and these shares are now freely tradable (an aggregate of 5,300,000 shares of our Common Stock), with the remaining one-half of the base stock consideration scheduled to be released from escrow on January 20, 2013. We cannot predict if and when following this escrow release the recipients of the PCT Merger consideration may sell such shares of Common Stock in the public markets. Additionally, a substantial number of shares of Common Stock may come into the public markets as a result of the Amorcyte Merger: (i) at the closing, 5,843,483 shares of Common Stock were placed in escrow as the “Base Stock Consideration”, for eventual distribution to the former stockholders of Amorcyte (with the first release from escrow, consisting of 20% of the Base Stock Consideration, to be effected in April 2012), and (ii) up to 4,092,768 shares of our Common Stock may become issuable to the former Amorcyte stockholders as “Contingent Shares” if certain business milestones are achieved. We cannot predict if and when (following, as applicable, release of the Base Stock Consideration from escrow, or issuance of Contingent Shares if the relevant milestones are achieved) the recipients of the Amorcyte Merger consideration may sell such shares of Common Stock in the public markets. We cannot predict the number of the above-described shares that might be sold nor the effect that future sales of our shares of Common Stock would have on the market price of our shares of Common Stock. 80 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our outstanding options and warrants may negatively affect our ability to raise additional capital. At March 5, 2012, we had approximately 58,685,091 stock options and warrants outstanding. Holders of our outstanding options and warrants are given the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our Common Stock. As long as these options and warrants are outstanding, the terms on which we could obtain additional capital may be adversely affected. The holders of these options and warrants might be expected to exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital by a new offering of securities on terms more favorable than those provided by these options and warrants. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We have concluded that as of December 31, 2011 we have a material weakness in our internal control relating to our financial reporting of Erye. Specifically, the Company has determined the accounting staff at Erye does not have sufficient qualified accounting and finance personnel. If we fail to (1) fully remediate the material weakness identified, or (2) we fail to maintain the adequacy of internal control over our financial reporting, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time. As private companies, PCT and Amorcyte were not subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Now that the PCT Merger and the Amorcyte Merger have been consummated, we expect to continue to devote management time and other resources to ensure that the combined company complies with the requirements of Section 404. During the course of testing our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may identify and disclose material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting (which may or may not be related to PCT or Amorcyte) that will have to be remedied. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal control may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain that adequacy or inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could result in our financial statements being unreliable, increase our operating costs and materially impair our ability to operate our business. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Additionally, failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could result in government investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. Actual and beneficial ownership of large quantities of our Common Stock by our executive officers and directors may substantially reduce the influence of other stockholders. As of March 5, 2012, our executive officers and directors collectively owned 33,727,064 shares of our Common Stock, representing approximately 29.5% of our outstanding Common Stock. As of such date, our executive officers and directors collectively beneficially owned 47,429,892 shares of our Common Stock. These beneficial holdings represent approximately 37.0% of our Common Stock. As a result, such persons may have the ability to exercise enhanced control over the approval process for actions that require stockholder approval, including: the election of our directors and the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other significant corporate transactions or other matters submitted for stockholder approval. Because of the beneficial ownership position of these persons, other stockholders may have less influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. Furthermore, at certain times the interests of our substantial stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. 81 TABLE OF CONTENTS Some of our directors and officers have positions of responsibility with other entities, and therefore have loyalties and fiduciary obligations to both our company and such other entities. These dual positions subject such persons to conflicts of interest in related party transactions which may cause such related party transactions to have consequences to our company that are less favorable than those which we could have attained in comparable transactions with unaffiliated entities. Eric H.C. Wei, a member of our Board of Directors, is also the Managing Partner of RimAsia Capital Partners, L.P., or RimAsia. RimAsia, a substantial stockholder of our company, beneficially owns approximately 22.5% of our Common Stock as of March 5, 2012. Mr. Shi Mingsheng (the Chairman of the Board of Erye, and who became a director of our company in March 2010) and Madam Zhang Jian (our Vice President of Pharmaceutical Operations and the General Manager of Erye), together with certain other persons, have shared voting and dispositive power over the shares of our Common Stock held by Fullbright Finance Limited, or Fullbright. Fullbright, together with Mr. Shi, and Madam Zhang, beneficially owns approximately 4.6% of our Common Stock as of March 5, 2012. These relationships create, or, at a minimum, appear to create potential conflicts of interest when members of our company’s senior management are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company and the other entities with which our directors or officers are associated. Although our company has established procedures designed to ensure that material related party transactions are fair to the company, no assurance can be given as to how potentially conflicted board members or officers will evaluate their fiduciary duties to our company and to other entities that they may owe fiduciary duties, respectively, or how such individuals will act in such circumstances. Furthermore, the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts ultimately do not harm our company, might adversely affect the public’s perception of our business, as well as its relationship with its existing customers, licensors, licensees and service providers and its ability to enter into new relationships in the future. We may not have the cash necessary to redeem the Series E Preferred Shares. We have the obligation to make monthly redemption payments on the Series E Preferred Shares, which mandatory redemption payments may be made at our option in cash or in shares of our Common Stock at a discounted formula price, except that our right to make payment in shares of Common Stock is dependent upon our satisfying certain Equity Conditions (defined in the certificate of designations for the Series E Preferred Stock) and is also subject to certain Dollar Volume Limitations (as defined). If we cannot satisfy the Equity Conditions, or if our trading prices and volume are such that we do not meet the Dollar Volume Limitations necessary for us to be able to make all or such portion of the monthly mandatory redemption payments as we desire in stock, we may be forced to make all (or a greater portion than we desire) of such monthly payments in cash. We may not have sufficient cash resources at the applicable time to make those cash payments, or to make such cash payments in full. Further, any failure to pay any amounts due to the holders of the Series E Preferred Shares, as well as certain other Trigger Events (as defined in the certificate of designations), including without limitation certain change in control transactions, our failure to timely deliver shares, our suspension of trading, and breaches of certain representations, warranties and covenants that are not timely cured, where a cure period is permitted, would permit the holders of our Preferred Shares to compel repurchase of such Series E Preferred Shares at a price per share equal to the sum of the liquidation preference plus accrued dividends plus the then applicable prepayment premium (10% if the repurchase occurs more than 12 months after the initial issuance date). If we are required to repurchase the Series E Preferred Shares in cash prior to maturity, no assurance can be given that we would have the cash or financial resources available to us to make such a payment, and such an acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and may impair our ability to continue in business as a going concern. The Series E Preferred Shares are senior obligations of ours, and rank prior to our Common Stock with respect to dividends, distributions and payments upon liquidation. The rights of the holders of the Series E Preferred Shares rank senior to the obligations to holders of our Common Stock. Upon our liquidation, the holders of Series E Preferred Shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $1.00 per share, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends at the rate of 7% per annum prior and in preference to any distribution to the holders of any other class of our equity securities. Further, no dividends can be paid without the consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Series E 82 TABLE OF CONTENTS Preferred Shares, and the holders of Series E Preferred Shares, as well as the holders of the warrants which were issued to the purchasers of Series E Preferred Shares, have the right to participate in any payment of dividends or other distributions made to the holders of our Common Stock to the same extent as if they had converted the Series E Preferred Shares or exercised the warrants. The existence of such a senior security could have an adverse effect on the value of our Common Stock. Holders of the Series E Preferred Shares have rights that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Under the securities purchase agreement pursuant to which the Series E Preferred Shares were sold, we are subject to certain covenants that limit our ability to create new series of preferred stock, other than series junior to the Series E Preferred Shares. We are also limited, with certain exceptions, in our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries (other than Erye) to incur debt and to pledge our assets. Such restrictions may have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business while the Series E Preferred Shares are outstanding. 83 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 