ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY RISKS FACING THE COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT WE DO NOT YET KNOW OF OR THAT WE CURRENTLY THINK ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED CAREFULLY, IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K AND THE DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE. THE STATEMENTS CONTAINED IN OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K THAT ARE NOT HISTORIC FACTS ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE SET FORTH IN OR IMPLIED BY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. IF ANY OF THE RISKS OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition We are a company with a limited operating history and have incurred substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations in the past, and we expect to continue to incur losses and negative cash flow for the near term. We are a company with a limited operating history, limited capital, and limited sources of revenue. Since our inception in 1980, we have incurred net losses of approximately $71 million through December 31, 2009. We incurred net losses of approximately $25.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and approximately $9.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and we expect to incur additional operating losses and negative cash flow in the future. The revenues from our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage business are not sufficient to cover costs attributable to that business. We expect to incur losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as a result of our activities under license and sponsored research agreements relating to our VSELTM technology and other research and development efforts to advance stem cell and other therapeutics, both in the U.S. and China. We also expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to sales, marketing, general and administrative and product research and development in connection with the development of our business. Although Suzhou Erye Pharmaceuticals Company Ltd., or Erye, a Chinese pharmaceutical company in which we recently acquired a 51% interest, earned $12.3 million in net income for the year ended December 31, 2009, it has only a limited history of earnings. Moreover, Erye is expected to incur significant expenses in the near term due to: (1) costs related to stabilizing and streamlining its operations; (2) costs related to the relocation of its production operations to a new facility currently under construction; (3) research and development costs related to new drug projects; and (4) costs related to expanding its existing sales network for new drug distribution. Pursuant to the current joint venture agreement that governs the ownership and management of Erye, or the Joint Venture Agreement, which is subject to PRC government approval, for the next three years (i) 49% of undistributed profits, after tax, will be distributed to Suzhou Erye Economy and Trading co. Ltd., or EET, which owns the remaining 49% of Erye, and loaned back to Erye for use in connection with its construction of the new Erye facility; (ii) 45% of the net profit after tax will be provided to Erye as part of the new facility construction fund, which will be characterized as paid-in capital for our 51% interest in Erye; and (iii) only 6% of the net profit will be distributed to us directly for our operating expenses. As a result, we will not be able to supplement our cash flow fully from the operations and income expected to be generated by Erye. We will need substantial additional capital to continue operations and additional capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We will require substantial additional capital to fund our business plan, including additional research and development activities related to our adult stem cell technologies and drug development efforts, and to support marketing efforts in the U.S. and China. Our actual cash requirements may differ materially from those currently estimated. At December 31, 2009, we had a cash balance of $7,159,369. The trading volume of our common stock, coupled with our history of operating losses and liquidity problems, may make it difficult for us to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. The demand for the equity and debt of small cap biopharmaceutical companies like ours is dependent upon many factors, including the general state of the financial markets. As demonstrated over the last year, during times of extreme market volatility, capital may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain such additional capital on acceptable terms could materially and adversely affect our business operations and ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to manage the growth of our business, our prospects may be limited and the results of our operations and ability to continue as a going concern may be materially and adversely affected. We intend to expand our sales and marketing programs, manufacturing capacity, and portfolios of pharmaceutical products and innovative stem cell-based therapies to meet future demand in the U.S. and China. Any significant expansion may strain our managerial, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We will need to continually improve our operations, financial and other internal systems to manage our growth effectively, and any failure to do so may result in slower growth, diminished operating results and a failure to achieve profitability, which would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. - 19 - - All acquisitions intended to grow our business may expose us to additional risks. We will continue to review acquisition prospects that could complement our current business, increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer revenue generating or other growth opportunities. Any increase in debt in connection with an acquisition could result in increased interest expense. Additionally, acquisitions may dilute the interests of our stockholders, place additional constraints on our available cash and entail other risks, including: difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, technologies or products; the loss of key employees from acquired businesses; diversion of management’s attention from our core business; risks of successor liability for unknown claims; and risks of entering markets, including international markets, in which we have limited or no prior experience. Risks Related to the Stem Cell Business The University of Louisville has the ability to exercise significant influence over the future development of our VSELTM technology. The terms of our exclusive license of the VSELTM technology from the University of Louisville provide for a collaborative approach on development decisions. For example, should we seek to collaborate with a third party on the VSELTM technology programs, prior approval of the University of Louisville would be required for any sublicensing agreement. There can be no assurance they would grant approval for decisions requiring their consent. In addition, we entered into a sponsored research agreement with the University of Louisville, pursuant to which they perform certain research activities for us. Accordingly, although we have recently begun our own independent research and development activities with respect to the VSELTM technology and have entered into an additional sponsored research agreement with the University of Michigan, we are highly dependent on the University’s cooperation and performance in developing the VSELTM technology. Further, the VSELTM technology license agreement requires the payment of certain license fees, royalties and milestone payments, payments for patent filings and applications and the use of due diligence in developing and commercializing the VSELTM technology. The sponsored research agreement requires other periodic payments. Our failure to meet our financial or other obligations under the license or sponsored research agreement in a timely manner could result in the loss of some or all of our rights to proprietary technology, such as the loss of exclusive rights or even termination of the agreements, and/or we could lose our right to have the University of Louisville conduct research and development efforts on our behalf. We have a very limited history of conducting our own research and development activities. To support our own research and development capabilities for our VSELTM technology and other stem cell technologies, in September 2009 we signed a lease for approximately 8,000 square feet of office and laboratory space in Cambridge, Massachusetts that serves as our research and development headquarters. To pursue our business strategy, we must increase our internal research capabilities, which we are endeavoring to accomplish at this facility, and by establishing relationships with third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Our additional research and development capacity also will require adequate sources of funding. There can be no assurance that any of these development efforts will produce a successful product or technology. Our failure to develop new products would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if we are successful in developing a therapeutic application using our VSELTM technology or other potential stem cell technologies, we still may be unsuccessful in creating a commercially viable and profitable business. The commercial viability of our VSELTM technology and other stem cell technologies may depend upon our ability to successfully expand the number of stem cells collected through adult stem cell collection processes in order to achieve a therapeutically-viable dose. Today, the number of very small embryonic-like stem cells that can be isolated from the peripheral blood of an adult donor is relatively small and this volume of cells may not be sufficient for therapeutic applications. A critical component of our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage services relating to the VSELTM technology and other potential stem cell technologies could therefore be the utilization of stem cell expansion processes. There are many biotechnology laboratories attempting to develop stem cell expansion technology, but to date stem cell expansion techniques remain very inefficient. There can be no assurance that such technology will be effective or available at all. The failure of cost effective and reliable expansion technologies to become available could severely limit the commercial opportunities of our VSELTM technology programs and other potential stem cell technologies and limit our business prospects, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, stem cell collection techniques are rapidly developing and could undergo significant change in the future. Such rapid technological development could result in our technologies, becoming obsolete. Successful biotechnology development in general is highly uncertain and is dependent on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. While our VSELTM technology and other stem cell technologies appear promising, such technologies may fail to be successfully commercialized for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, competing technologies for the same indication. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop a commercially successful therapeutic application for this technology or other potential stem cell technologies. - 20 - - Our research and development activities using adult stem cells in therapeutic indications present additional risks. Our research and development activities relating to our VSELTM technology and other populations of adult stem cells are subject to many of the same risks as our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage business, and additional risks related to requirements for preclinical and clinical testing by regulatory authorities including the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the underlying therapy. The development of new drugs and therapies is often a long, expensive and difficult process and most attempts fail. Our VSELTM technology is in the very early stages of development and will require many steps, tests and processes before we will be able to commence clinical testing in humans. There can be no assurance that a biologics license application, or BLA, with the FDA will not be required for our VSELTM technology or our other stem cell technologies. The approval process for a BLA can take years, require human clinical trials and cost several million dollars. There also can be no assurance that we independently, or through collaborations, will successfully develop, commercialize or market our VSELTM technology or other stem cells for any therapeutic indication. Should we fail to develop our VSELTM technology or other adult stem cell technologies pursued by us, our business prospects, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Technological and medical developments or improvements in conventional therapies could render the use of stem cells and our services and planned products obsolete. Advances in other treatment methods or in disease prevention techniques could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the need for our stem cell services, planned products and therapeutic efforts. Additionally, technological or medical developments may materially alter the commercial viability of our technology or services, and require us to incur significant costs to replace or modify equipment in which we have a substantial investment. In either event, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating result and financial condition. If safety problems are encountered by us or others developing new stem cell-based therapies, our stem cell initiatives could be materially and adversely affected. The use of stem cells for therapeutic indications is still in the very early stages of development. If an adverse event occurs during clinical trials related to one of our product candidates or those of others, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may halt our clinical trials or require additional studies. The occurrence of any of these events would delay, and increase the cost of, our product development and may render the commercialization of our product candidates impractical or impossible. Future therapies using adult stem cells may not develop, and demand for adult stem cell collection, processing and storage may never develop. The value of our stem cell collection, processing and storage business and our development programs could be significantly impaired, and our ability to become profitable and continue our business could be materially and adversely affected, if adult stem cell therapies under development by us or by others to treat disease are not proven effective, demonstrate unacceptable risks or side effects or, where required, fail to receive regulatory approval. The therapeutic application of stem cells to treat serious diseases is currently being explored using adult stem cells like those that are the focus of our business, as well as embryonic stem cells. Cells collected and used for the same individual are referred to as autologous cells and those collected from an individual who is not the user of the cells are referred to as allogeneic cells. To our knowledge, the only allowed therapeutic use of stem cells in the U.S., other than in connection with clinical trials, involves hematopoietic stem cell transplants to treat certain types of blood-based cancers (hematopoietic stem cells are the stem cells from which all blood cells are made). No other stem cell therapeutic products have received regulatory approval for sale in the U.S. While stem cell-based therapy has been reported to be susceptible to various risks, including some undesirable side effects and immune system responses, these problems have been primarily associated with allogeneic use. Inadequate therapeutic efficacy also is a risk that may prevent or limit approval or commercial use of adult stem cells, whether for autologous use or allogeneic use. In addition, the time and cost necessary to complete the clinical development and to obtain regulatory approval of new therapies using stems cells are expected to be significant. Side effects or limitations of our stem cell collection process or a failure in the performance of the cryopreservation storage facility or systems of our service providers could harm our reputation and business. Customers may experience adverse outcomes from our adult stem cell collection and storage process. These include: (i) the possibility of an infection acquired from the aphereis process, which is the process of extracting stem cells from a patient’s whole blood and it is an integral part of our collection process; (ii) collection of insufficient quantities of stem cells for therapeutic applications; (iii) failure of the equipment supporting our cryopreservation storage service to function properly and thus maintain a supply of usable adult stem cells; and (iv) specimen damage, including contamination or loss in transit to us. Should any of these events occur, our reputation could be harmed, our operations could be adversely affected and litigation could be filed against us. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, equipment failure, break-ins, tornadoes and similar events for which we do not have redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan. Any claim of adverse side effects or limitations or material disruption in our ability to maintain continued uninterrupted storage systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. - 21 - - State and other requirements may impact our ability to conduct a profitable collection, processing and storage business for adult stem cells. Some states impose additional regulation and oversight of clinical laboratories operating within their borders and impose regulatory compliance obligations on out-of-state laboratories providing services to their residents. Many of the states in which we, our strategic partners or members of our collection network engage in collection, processing or storage activities have licensing requirements that must be complied with. Additionally, there may be state regulations impacting the use of blood products that would impact our business. Certain licensing requirements require employment of medical directors and others with certain training and technical backgrounds and there can be no assurance that such individuals can be retained or will remain retained or that the cost of retaining such individuals will not materially and adversely affect our ability to market or perform our services or our ability to do so profitably. There can be no assurance that we, our strategic partners or members of our collection center network will be able to obtain or maintain any necessary licenses required to conduct business in any states or that the cost of compliance will not materially and adversely affect our ability to market or perform our services or our ability to do so profitably. Our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage business was not contemplated by many existing laws and regulations, and our ongoing compliance, therefore, is subject to interpretation and risk. Our adult stem cell collection, processing and storage service is not a medical treatment, although it involves medical procedures. Our stem cell-related business is relatively new and is not addressed by many of the regulations applicable to our field. As a result, there is often considerable uncertainty as to the applicability of regulatory requirements. Although we have devoted significant resources to ensuring compliance with those laws that we believe to be applicable, it is possible that regulators may disagree with our interpretations, prompting additional compliance requirements or even enforcement actions. We believe that the adult stem cells collected, processed and stored through our collection services are properly classified under the FDA’s human cells, tissues and cellular- and tissue-based products, or HCT/P, regulatory paradigm and should not be classified as a medical device, biologic or drug. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not reclassify the adult stem cells collected, processed and stored through our collection services. Any such reclassification could have adverse consequences for us and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct our business by requiring regulatory clearance, approval and/or compliance with additional regulatory requirements. The costs of compliance with such additional requirements or such enforcement may have a material adverse effect on our operations or may require restructuring of our operations or impair our ability to operate profitably. We may need to obtain regulatory approval before we can market and sell stem cell biomarker screening panels in the U.S. In the U.S., our planned stem cell biomarker screening panels may be subject to regulation as a medical device by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. These domestic regulations govern many of the commercial activities we plan to perform, including the purposes for which our proposed immunodiagnostic assays can be used, the development, testing, labeling, storage and use of our proposed assays with other products, and the manufacturing, advertising, promotion, sales and distribution of our proposed assays for the approved purposes. Compliance with these regulations could prove expensive and time-consuming and render such panels commercially impractical. Ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of stem cell therapy may negatively impact the public perception of our stem cell services, thereby suppressing demand for our services. Although our stem cell business pertains to adult stem cells only, and does not involve the more controversial use of embryonic stem cells, the use of adult human stem cells for therapy could give rise to similar ethical, legal and social issues as those associated with embryonic stem cells, which could adversely affect its acceptance by consumers and medical practitioners. Additionally, it is possible that our business could be negatively impacted by any stigma associated with the use of embryonic stem cells if the public fails to appreciate the distinction between adult and embryonic stem cells. Delays in achieving public acceptance may materially and adversely affect the results of our operations and profitability. - 22 - - The market for services related to the preservation and expansion of stem cells has become increasingly competitive. Historically, we have faced competition from other established operators of stem cell preservation businesses and providers of stem cell storage services. Today, there is an established and growing market for cord blood stem cell banking. We are also aware of another company with established stem cell banking services that processes and stores stem cells collected from adipose, or fat, tissue. This type of stem cell banking requires harvesting fat by a liposuction procedure. Embryonic stem cells represent yet another alternative to pre-donated and stored adult stem cells. As techniques for expanding stem cells improve, thereby allowing therapeutic doses, the use of embryonic stem cells and other collection techniques of adult stem cells could increase and compete with our services. Finally, we are aware that other technologies are being developed to turn skin cells into cells that behave like embryonic stem cells or to harvest stem cells from the pulp of baby teeth. While these and other approaches remain in early stages of development, they may one day be competitive. In addition, cord blood banks such as ViaCord or LifebankUSA easily could enter the field of adult stem cell collection because of their processing labs, storage facilities and customer lists. We estimate that there are approximately 43 cord blood banks in the U.S., approximately 28 of which are autologous, meaning that the donor and recipient are the same, and approximately 15 of which are allogeneic, meaning that the donor and recipient are not the same. Hospitals that have transplant centers to serve cancer patients may elect to provide some or all of the services that we provide. We estimate that there are approximately 162 hospitals in the U.S. with stem cell transplant centers. These competitors may have better experience and greater financial marketing, technical and research resources, name recognition, and market presence than we do. In addition, other established companies may enter our markets and compete with us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. Building market acceptance of our U.S. autologous adult stem cell collection, processing and storage services, may be more costly and take longer than we expect. The success of our U.S. autologous adult stem cell business depends on continuing and growing market acceptance of our collection, processing and storage services as well as stem cell therapy generally. Increasing the awareness and demand for our services requires expenditures for marketing and education of consumers and medical practitioners who, under present law, must order stem cell collection and treatment on behalf of a potential customer. The time and expense required to educate and to build awareness of our services and their potential benefits and about stem cell therapy in general could significantly delay market acceptance and our ultimate profitability. The successful commercialization of our services will also require that we satisfactorily address the concerns of medical practitioners in order to avoid resistance to recommendations for our services and ultimately reach our potential consumers. No assurances can be given that our business plan and marketing efforts will be successful, that we will be able to commercialize our services, or that there will be market or clinical acceptance of our services by potential customers or physicians, respectively, sufficient to generate any material revenues for us. To date, only a minimal number of collections have been performed at the collection centers in our network. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be unable to comply with applicable federal regulations, registrations and approvals. Since January of 2004, registration with the FDA is required by facilities engaged in the recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging or distribution of any HCT/Ps, or the screening or testing of a donor. Any third party retained by us to process our samples must be similarly registered with the FDA and comply with HCT/P regulations. If we, or any third party processors, fail to register or update registration information in a timely way, we will be out of compliance with FDA regulations which could adversely affect our business. The FDA also adopted rules in May 2005 that regulate current Good Tissues Practices, or cGTP. Additionally, adverse events in the field of stem cell therapy that may occur could result in greater governmental regulation of our business, creating increased expenses and potential delays relating to the approval or licensing of any or all of the processes and facilities involved in our stem cell collection and storage services. We also are subject to state and federal laws regulating the proper disposal of biohazardous materials. Although we believe we are currently in compliance with all such applicable laws, a violation of such laws, or the future enactment of more stringent laws or regulations, could subject us to liability for noncompliance and may require us to incur significant costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able, or have the resources, to continue to comply with regulations that govern our operations currently, or that we will be able to comply with new regulations that govern our operations, or that the cost of compliance will not materially and adversely affect our ability to market or perform our services or our ability to do so profitably. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, requires that our business comply with state and federal privacy laws which increase the cost and administrative burden of providing stem cell banking services. We are subject to state and federal privacy laws related to the protection of our customers’ personal health information and state and federal laws related to the security of such personal health information and other personal data to which we would have access through the provision of our services. Currently, we are obligated to comply with privacy and security standards adopted under HIPAA. Certain of these regulatory obligations will be changing over the next year as a result of amendments to HIPAA under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Consequently, our compliance burden will increase, and we will be subject to audit and enforcement by the federal government and, in some cases, enforcement by state authorities. We will also be obligated to publicly disclose wrongful disclosures or losses of personal health information. We may be required to spend substantial amounts of time and money to comply with these requirements, any regulations and licensing requirements, as well as any future legislative and regulatory initiatives. Failure by us or our business partners to comply with these or other applicable regulatory requirements or any delay in compliance may result in, among other things, injunctions, operating restrictions, and civil fines and criminal prosecution, a material adverse effect on the marketing and sales of our services and impair our ability to operate profitably or at all. - 23 - - Our success in developing future stem cell therapies will depend in part on establishing and maintaining effective strategic partnerships and collaborations, which may impose restrictions on our business and subject us to additional regulation. A key aspect of our business strategy is to establish strategic relationships in order to gain access to critical supplies, to expand or complement our research and development or commercialization capabilities, and to reduce the cost of research and development. There can be no assurance that we will enter into such relationships, that the arrangements will be on favorable terms or that such relationships will be successful. If any of our research partners terminate their relationship with us or fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner, our research and development activities or commercialization of our services may be substantially impaired or delayed. Relationships with licensed professionals such as physicians may be subject to state and federal laws restricting the referral of business, prohibiting certain payments to physicians, or otherwise limiting such collaborations. If our services become approved for reimbursement by government or private insurers, we could be subject to additional regulation and perhaps additional limitations on our ability to structure relationships with physicians. Additionally, state regulators may impose restrictions on the business activities and relationships of licensed physicians or other licensed professionals. For example, many states restrict or prohibit the employment of licensed physicians by for-profit corporations, or the “corporate practice of medicine.” If we fail to structure our relationships with physicians in accordance with applicable laws or other regulatory requirements it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we do enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms. We are dependent on relationships with third parties to conduct our business. Apheresis is the process through which stem cells are extracted from a patient’s whole blood and it is an integral part of our collection process. Our process involves the injection of a “mobilizing agent” which causes the stem cells to migrate from the bone marrow into the blood stream. The injection of this mobilizing agent is an integral part of the collection process. There is currently only one supplier of this mobilizing agent, called Neupogen®. Although we continue to explore alternative mobilizing agents and methods of stem cell collection, there can be no assurance that any alternative mobilizing agents will be available or alternative methods will prove to be successful. In the event that our supplier is unable or unwilling to continue to supply the mobilizing agent to us on commercially reasonable terms, and we are unable to identify alternative methods or find substitute suppliers on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our business. In addition, we are currently using only one outside apheresis provider though we are currently pursuing other opportunities. Although other third parties, including the centers themselves, subject to appropriate licensure, are capable of providing apheresis services, any disruption in the provision of this service would cause a delay in the delivery of our services. Our failure to maintain relationships with these third parties or the failure of such parties to provide quality contracted services would have a material adverse impact on our business. We are dependent upon our management, scientific and medical personnel and we may have difficulty attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our performance and success are dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our management, and medical and scientific personnel. Furthermore, our growth will require hiring a significant number of qualified technical, commercial, business and administrative personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to develop our business, perform contractual obligations under our University of Louisville and other license agreements and maintain appropriate licensure, on acceptable terms, we may not be able to sustain our operations or achieve our commercialization and other business objectives and we may fail to grow or sustain our business as a going concern. There is significant uncertainty about the validity and permissible scope of patents in the biotechnological industry and we may not be able to obtain patent protection. We own or hold exclusive rights to one patent and own or hold exclusive rights to fourteen filed patent applications related to our products and technologies. Given the nature of our therapeutic programs, our patents cover methods of isolating, storing and using stem cells, including very small embryonic stem cells. There can be no assurance that the patent applications to which we hold rights will result in the issuance of patents, or that any patents issued or licensed to us will not be challenged and held to be invalid or of a scope of coverage that is different from what we believe the patent’s scope to be. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we can: obtain patents to protect our own products and technologies; obtain licenses to use the technologies of third parties if necessary, which may be protected by patents; and protect our trade secrets and know-how. Our inability to obtain and rely upon patents essential to our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. - 24 - - We may be unable to protect our intellectual property from infringement by third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. Our competitors may also independently develop similar technology, duplicate our processes or services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Intellectual property litigation is costly, time-consuming, diverts the attention of management and technical personnel and could result in substantial uncertainty regarding our future viability. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection would limit our ability to develop or market our services in the future. This would also likely have an adverse effect on the revenues generated by any sale or license of such intellectual property. Furthermore, any public announcements related to such litigation or regulatory proceedings could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Third parties may claim that we infringe on their intellectual property. We may be subject to costly litigation in the event our technology is claimed to infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Litigation and patent interference proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of efforts by our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding or in patent litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to seek licenses from third parties. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from commercializing our products, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to maintain our licenses, patents or other intellectual property and could lose important protections that are material to continuing our operations and growth and our ability to achieve profitability. Our license agreement with the University of Louisville and other license agreements require us to pay license fees, royalties and milestone payments and fees for patent filings and applications. Obtaining and maintaining patent protection and licensing rights also depends, in part, on our ability to pay the applicable filing and maintenance fees. Our failure to meet financial obligations under our license agreements in a timely manner or our non-payment or delay in payment of our patent fees, could result in the loss of some or all of our rights to proprietary technology or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection. Additionally, our license agreements require us to meet certain diligence obligations in the development of the licensed products. Our failure to meet these diligence obligations under our license agreements could result in the loss of some or all of our rights under the license agreements. The loss of any or all of our intellectual property rights could materially limit our ability to develop and/or market our services, which would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our inability to obtain reimbursement for our therapies from private or governmental insurers, could negatively impact demand for our services. Successful sales of health care services and products generally depends, in part, upon the availability and amounts of reimbursement from third party healthcare payor organizations, including government agencies, private healthcare insurers and other healthcare payors, such as health maintenance organizations and self-insured employee plans. Uncertainty exists as to the availability of reimbursement for new therapies such as stem cell-based therapies. There can be no assurance that such reimbursement will be available in the future at all or without substantial delay or, if such reimbursement is provided, that the approved reimbursement amounts will be sufficient to support demand for our services at a level that will be profitable. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all claims or losses. We expect to have insurance coverage against operating risks, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products and services, but no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation or available on terms acceptable to us. This insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. The insurance may not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. - 25 - - We have received an informal request for documents in connection with an SEC investigation of a third party matter, and there is no assurance that the SEC will not take action against us. In connection with the SEC’s investigation of a matter regarding an unaffiliated third party, we have received an informal request from the SEC, dated December 23, 2008, for the voluntary production of documents and information concerning the issuance, distribution, registration, purchase, sale and/or offer to sell our securities from January 1, 2007. The third party served as the lead underwriter of our public offering that was consummated in August 2007. We are cooperating fully with the SEC’s request. There has been no indication to date that we are a target of the investigation. The SEC letter stated that the request should not be construed as an indication by the SEC or its staff that any violation of the federal securities laws has occurred, nor should it be considered a reflection upon any person, entity or security, but that there is no assurance that the SEC will not take any action against us. A determination by the SEC to take action against us could be costly and time consuming, could divert the efforts and attention of our directors, officers and employees from the operation of our business and could result in sanctions against us, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Risks Related to the Acquisition of Our Interest in Erye Erye has a limited history of earnings. Erye’s continued growth and profitability depends on stabilizing and streamlining its operations, relocating to a new factory that is now under construction, continuing research and development for new drug products and expanding its sales network for drug distribution. The failure of Erye to be profitable could materially and adversely affect its and our operating results, financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to successfully integrate Erye into our business. Our U.S. based management team has limited experience in purchasing and integrating new businesses in China. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of Erye could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition by reason of our failure to realize a sufficient benefit and financial return on capital expended in connection with the acquisition. We expect to realize increased revenues and market penetration in Erye’s product areas as a result of the acquisition of our interest in Erye. Achievement of these expected benefits will depend, in part, on how we manage the integration of the Erye business into our operations. If we are unsuccessful in integrating the Erye business in a cost-effective manner, we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. CBH and/or its affiliates may have had unknown liabilities that now may be deemed to be liabilities of NeoStem or its merger subsidiary as a result of the Merger. There may have been liabilities of CBH and/or its affiliates that were unknown at the time of the Merger. As a result of the Merger, any such unknown liabilities may be deemed to be liabilities of NeoStem or our merger subsidiary. In the event any such liability becomes known, it may lead to claims against us or our subsidiary including, but not limited to, lawsuits, administrative proceedings, and other claims. Any such liabilities may subject us to increased expenses for attorneys’ fees, fines and litigation and expenses associated with any subsequent settlements or judgments. There can be no assurance that such unknown liabilities do not exist. To the extent that such liabilities become known, any such liability-related expenses may materially and adversely affect our profitability, operating results and financial condition. Erye, and we as the owner of a controlling ownership interest in Erye, may be subject to tax liability as a result of the transfer of real estate assets from Erye to EET. Prior to the closing of the Merger, CBH was required to cause Erye to transfer certain real estate assets to EET, or the Split with a leaseback to Erye, the transfer of which may be deemed a taxable event under PRC tax laws. EET has agreed to indemnify Erye and us against any tax liability that may result from such transfer of real estate assets. However, should such transfer of real estate assets be ultimately determined to be taxable, there is a risk that if EET will be unable or unwilling to pay the resultant tax liability pursuant to EET’s indemnification obligations, we would bear the liability to pay such tax liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business operating results and financial condition. Demand for Erye’s existing pharmaceutical products may not experience significant growth and new product candidates and technologies we may develop or license may fail to obtain regulatory approval and market acceptance. - 26 - - We cannot accurately predict the future growth rate or the size of the markets for our pharmaceutical products and technologies in China. The expansion of these markets depends on a number of factors, such as: • the cost, performance and reliability of the products and technologies being offered, as compared to the products/technologies offered by competitors; • customers’ perceptions regarding the benefits of the products and technologies; • public perceptions regarding the use of the products and technologies; • customers’ satisfaction with the products and technologies; and ▪ marketing efforts and publicity regarding the products and technologies. The acquisition of our interest in Erye is intended to provide us with a stable yet growing business from which to launch new pharmaceutical drugs and other products in China. Should Erye fail to perform as expected, our business and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and our ability to raise capital and continue as a going concern will be impaired. Our ability to manage Erye’s business will be limited. Pursuant to the Joint Venture Agreement, Erye’s board of directors is comprised of two individuals designated by EET and three individuals designated by us; provided, however, that one of the positions designated by us is to be the member of our board of directors designated by EET. The affirmative vote of at least 75% of all of the Erye board of directors is required for all major decisions, including decisions related to corporate transactions, changes in capital structure, and the material business strategy, operations and development of Erye. In addition, under PRC law, an affirmative vote of 100% of Erye’s board of directors is required to approve certain material matters of Erye such as the increase or decrease of its registered capital, a merger or spinoff of Erye, any amendment to its articles of association, and the termination and dissolution of Erye. We currently own only a 51% interest in Erye. Accordingly, in view of these provisions, we may have limited ability to exercise control over Erye’s business strategy, operations and development. Since many of Erye’s officers will reside in China and most of our executive officers reside in the U.S., Erye’s officers will manage the day-to-day operations of Erye with only limited participation from our executive officers. Some terms of the Joint Venture Agreement limit our ability to consummate future acquisitions and investments in chemical drug manufacturing companies, which could limit our growth. Pursuant to the terms of the Erye Joint Venture Agreement, prior to making an investment in any other chemical drug manufacturing company that competes directly with the business of Erye, we must obtain Eyre’s approval. In addition, we are obligated to consult with Erye prior to introducing any new small molecule drug in China to determine whether it can be produced less expensively or more efficiently by Erye. There can be no assurance that Erye will provide such approvals for acquisitions or new products, which could materially and adversely affect the growth of our business in China, our operating results and our financial condition. An amendment to the Joint Venture Agreement may be required for a loan to Erye, and the effectiveness of which is subject to approval by PRC government authorities. If we make a loan to Erye or the joint venture for the purpose of funding a portion of the cost to complete equipping and Erye’s relocation to Erye’s new production facility, an amendment to the Joint Venture Agreement may be required in order to provide for the use and repayment of such funds. The amendment cannot become effective until it is approved by Jiangsin Provincial Bureau of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation and by any other PRC governmental authority approving the Joint Venture Agreement. Any delay in obtaining such approval(s) or material amendments to the terms of the amendment to the Joint Venture Agreement, or taxes or other payments imposed by the PRC government authorities as a condition to approval may delay or diminish our realization of benefits of such funding, which could delay Erye’s relocation and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The transactions related to the Merger may not have received all necessary PRC governmental approvals. Prior to the closing of the Merger, CBH was required to cause Erye to transfer certain real estate assets to EET, or the Split.The Split has been approved by Jiangsin Provincial Bureau of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation, or the JPBFTEC, and the amended Articles of Association and the amended Joint Venture Agreement have also been approved by the JPBFTSC in principle. While we believe that we have complied with applicable PRC laws and sought all requisite approvals with respect to the transactions related to the Merger (including, but not limited to, the Split and the amendments to both the Articles of Association and the Joint Venture Agreement), in light of the uncertainty of PRC laws in this area, no assurance can be given that all required filings have been made or that PRC authorities will not take a contrary view, any of which events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. - 27 - - Eyre’s success is dependent upon its ability to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights. Erye’s success depends, in part, on its ability to protect its current and future technologies and products and to defend its intellectual property rights. If it fails to protect its intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to Erye’s. Some patent applications in China are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. Because the publication of discoveries tends to follow their actual discovery by many months, Erye may not be the first to invent, or file patent applications on any of its discoveries. Patents may not be issued with respect to any of Erye’s patent applications and existing or future patents issued to or licensed by Erye may not provide competitive advantages for its products. Patents that are issued may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by its competitors. Furthermore, Erye’s patent rights may not prevent its competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to Erye’s products. Erye also relies on trade secrets, non-patented proprietary expertise and continuing technological innovation that it seeks to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Moreover, Erye’s trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by its competitors. If patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, Erye may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In the PRC, there has been substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry with respect to the manufacturing, use and sale of new products. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Erye may be required to commence or defend against charges relating to the infringement of patent or proprietary rights. Any such litigation could: (i) require Erye to incur substantial expense, even if it is insured or successful in the litigation; (ii) require Erye to divert significant time and effort of its technical and management personnel; (iii) result in the loss of its rights to develop or make certain products; and (iv) require Erye to pay substantial monetary damages or royalties in order to license proprietary rights from third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent Erye from manufacturing and selling some of its products or increase its costs to market these products, which could have a material adverse affect on its and our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, when seeking regulatory approval for some of its products, Erye is required to certify to regulatory authorities, including the SFDA, that such products do not infringe upon third party patent rights. Filing a certification against a patent gives the patent holder the right to bring a patent infringement lawsuit against Erye. Any lawsuit regarding a particular product could delay, or result in a denial of, regulatory approval by the SFDA. A claim of infringement and the resulting delay could result in substantial expenses and even prevent Erye from manufacturing and selling certain of its products, which also could have a material adverse effect on its and our business, operating results and financial condition. Erye’s launch of a product prior to a final court decision or the expiration of a patent held by a third party can expose Erye to a claim of substantial damages. Depending upon the circumstances, a court may award the patent holder damages equal to three times its loss of income. If Erye is found to have infringed a patent held by a third party and become subject to such treble damages, these damages could have a material adverse effect on its and our operating results and financial condition. Erye’s insurance may not cover all risks or losses related to its drugs, products and services. Any of Erye’s products or services may be defective, ineffective or cause dangerous side effects and, in certain cases, even fatality, and lead to claims in excess of the insurance maintained by Erye and us. Uninsured losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The business of Erye is conducted in a highly competitive industry. Erye’s pharmaceutical products consist primarily of prescription antibiotics and active pharmaceutical intermediates, or APIs, which are chemicals used to manufacture pharmaceutical products. The market in China for these products is highly competitive and subject to regulation by the SFDA. Erye competes in a large market with many competitors, particularly in the area of oral antibiotics. Many of its competitors are more established than Erye, and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources Erye. Some of Erye’s competitors have greater name recognition and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. There can be no assurances that Erye will be able to compete successfully. - 28 - - Many of Erye’s current products are prescription antibiotics that it sells through distributors, in many cases to state-controlled and private hospitals. State-controlled and private hospitals are the primary users for many of Erye’s current products. The prices paid by such hospitals and the timing of payment for products purchased are, to a large extent, dependent on government policy, which is susceptible to change. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Erye’s pricing structure for many of its products or the timing of the revenues from the sales of those products will continue. A change in government policy resulting in a reduction to the prices for any of Erye’s injectible antibiotics, or the timing of payment for products purchased, could have a material adverse effect on Erye’s, and our, results of operations and financial condition. Despite the above, payment is typically received by Erye at the time of sale to the distributor. Price control regulations may decrease our profitability. The list of medications eligible for reimbursement as well as the prices at which they are reimbursed are controlled by the PRC government, and are subject to control by the relevant state or provincial price administration authorities. In practice, price control with respect to these medicines sets a ceiling on their retail price. The actual price of such medicines set by manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers cannot historically exceed the price ceiling imposed by applicable government price control regulations. Although, as a general matter, government price control regulations have resulted in drug prices tending to decline over time, there has been no predictable pattern for such decreases. Such price controls, especially downward price adjustment, may negatively affect the revenue and profitability of Erye and, consequently, our revenue and profitability. The bidding process with respect to the purchase of pharmaceutical products may lead to reduced revenue. PRC regulations require non-profit medical organizations established in China to implement bidding procedures for the purchase of drugs. It is intended that the implementation of a bidding purchase system will be extended gradually and will cover, among other drugs, those drugs consumed in large volume and commonly used for clinical uses. Pharmaceutical wholesalers must have the due authorization of the pharmaceutical manufacturers in order to participate in the bidding process. If, for the purpose of reducing the bidding price, pharmaceutical manufacturers participate in the bidding process on their own and enter into purchase and sales contracts with medical organizations directly without authorizing a pharmaceutical distributor, the revenue of Erye may be adversely affected. Erye’s activities related to research, development and marketing new drugs have inherent risks. Part of Erye’s strategy is to expand its portfolio of drugs and therapies. Our U.S. management team is working with Erye to identify appropriate drug candidates for the Chinese market. The development of a new drug or therapy requires time, financial resources and drug development expertise. There is always a risk that such development efforts will prove unsuccessful. There also is a risk that any new drugs and technologies developed by Erye may not be compatible with market needs, may be too expensive or may face competition. Because markets for drugs differ geographically within China, Erye must develop and manufacture its products to target specific markets to ensure product sales. Erye’s growth and survival will depend on its ability to develop and commercialize new products and effectively market those products. If its efforts are unsuccessful, its and our business, operating results and financial conditions will be materially and adversely affected. Erye’s success depends on its ability to retain key personnel and manage its growth. Erye’s business is dependent on certain of their key management and technological personnel. The departure of any of such key personnel may seriously disrupt and harm Erye’s operations, business and the implementation of Erye’s business plan. There can be no assurance that Erye can be successful in retaining them or replacing any personnel without delay in the event of a departure. Given Eyre’s plans for growth, it will need to attract and retain new executives. The inability to achieve, maintain and manage growth could have a material adverse effect on Eyre’s and our business, operating results and financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our operations are subject to risks associated with emerging markets. The Chinese economy is not well established and is only recently emerging and growing as a significant market for consumer goods and services. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the market will continue to grow. Perceived risks associated with investing in China, or a general disruption in the development of China’s markets could materially and adversely affect the business, operating results and financial condition of Erye and us. - 29 - - A significant portion of our assets is located in the PRC, and investors may not be able to enforce federal securities laws or their other legal rights. A substantial portion of our assets is located in the PRC. As a result, it may be difficult for investors in the U.S. to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon certain of our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties against our directors and officers located outside of the U.S. The PRC government has the ability to exercise significant influence and control over our operations in China. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of corporate governance practices in business enterprises. However, many productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development by imposing business regulations. It also exercises significant control over the country’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. There can be no assurance that China’s economic, political or legal systems will not develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our activities may be materially and adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the government, such as measures to control inflation, changes in the rates or method of taxation and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Additional factors that we may experience in connection with having operations in China that may adversely affect our business and results of operations include: • our inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any material agreements; • PRC restrictions on foreign investment that could impair our ability to conduct our business or acquire or contract with other entities in the future; • restrictions on currency exchange that may limit our ability to use cash flow most effectively or to repatriate our investment; • restrictions on currency exchange that may limit our ability to use cash flow most effectively or to repatriate our investment; ▪ fluctuations in currency values; ▪ cultural, language and managerial differences that may reduce our overall performance; and ▪ political instability in China. Cultural, language and managerial differences may adversely affect of our overall performance. While Chinese mergers and acquisitions activity is increasing in frequency, assimilating cultural, language and managerial differences remains problematic. Personnel issues may develop as we endeavor to consolidate management teams from different cultural backgrounds. In addition, errors arising through language translations may cause miscommunications relating to material information. These factors may make the management of our operations in China more difficult. Should we be unable to coordinate the efforts of our U.S.-based management team with our China-based management team, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to enforce our rights in China. China’s legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors. The legal system in China is evolving rapidly, and enforcement of laws is inconsistent. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws or enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. China’s legal system is based on civil law or written statutes and a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that must be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of Chinese laws may vary to reflect domestic political changes. - 30 - - There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application to our business of PRC laws and regulations, since many of the rules and regulations that companies face in China are not made public. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that apply to future businesses may be applied retroactively to existing businesses. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. The laws of China are likely to govern many of our material agreements, including, without limitation the Joint Venture Agreement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce our interests or our material agreements or that expected remedies will be available. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our businesses in China are subject to government regulation that limit or prohibit direct foreign investment, limiting our ability to control these businesses, as well as our ability to pursue new ventures and expand further into the Chinese market. The PRC government has imposed regulations in various industries, including medical research and the stem cell business, that limit foreign investors’ equity ownership or prohibit foreign investments altogether in companies that operate in such industries. As a result, our ability to control our existing China-based businesses as well as pursue new ventures and expand further into the Chinese market may be limited. If new laws or regulations or policies forbid foreign investment in industries in which we want to expand or complete a business combination, they could severely impair our ability to grow our business. Additionally, if the relevant Chinese authorities find us or such business combination to be in violation of any laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation: (i) levying fines; (ii) revoking our business and other licenses; (iii) requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and (iv) requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. Accordingly, any of these regulations or violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The import into China or export from China of technology relating to stem cell therapy may be prohibited or restricted. The Chinese Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, and Ministry of Science and Technology of China, or MOST, jointly publish the Catalogue of Technologies the Export of which from China is Prohibited or Restricted, and the Catalogue of Technologies the Import of which into China Prohibited or Restricted. Stem cell-related technologies are not listed in the current versions of these catalogues, and therefore their import or export should not be forbidden or require the approval of MOFCOM and MOST. However, these catalogues are subject to revision and, as the PRC authorities develop policies concerning stem cell technologies, it is possible that the categories would be amended or updated should the PRC government want to regulate the export or import of stem cell related technologies to protect material state interests or for other reasons. Should the catalogues be updated so as to bring any activities of the planned stem cell processing, storage and manufacturing operation in Beijing and related research and development activities under their purview, any such limitations or restrictions imposed on the operations and related activities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business in China may be adversely affected by inaccurate claims about our technology. We recently learned of an effort by a principal of Shandong New Medicine Research Institute of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine Limited Liability Company, or Shandong New Medicine, to promote our VSELTM technology as his own in China. While we have no reason to believe that Shandong New Medicine or such person has any VSELTM technology or has access to or use of any of our proprietary information, we are analyzing the available facts and circumstances and have initiated and are reviewing additional appropriate legal remedies in the U.S. and abroad. We cannot determine at this time what effect, if any, such actions by Shandong New Medicine or its principal will have on our reputation in China. The PRC government does not permit direct foreign investment in stem cell research and development businesses. Accordingly, we operate these businesses through local companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have controlling equity ownership. PRC regulations prevent foreign companies from directly engaging in stem cell-related research, development and commercial applications in China. Therefore, to perform these activities, we operate our current stem cell-related business in China through two domestic variable interest entities, or VIEs: Qingdao Niao Bio-Technology Ltd., or Qingdao Niao, and Beijing Ruijieao Bio-Technology Ltd., or Beijing Ruijieao, each a Chinese domestic company controlled by the Chinese employees of NeoStem (China), Inc., our wholly foreign-owned entity, or the WFOE, through various business agreements, referred to, collectively, as the VIE documents. We control these companies and operate these businesses through contractual arrangements with the companies and their individual owners, but we have no direct equity ownership or control over these companies. Our contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, the VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business or fail to conduct business in the manner we desire despite their contractual obligation to do so. These companies are able to transact business with parties not affiliated with us. If these companies fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot be certain that the individual equity owners of the VIEs would always act in our best interests, especially if they have no other relationship with us. - 31 - - Although other foreign companies have used WFOEs and VIE structures similar to ours and such arrangements are not uncommon in connection with business operations of foreign companies in China in industry sectors in which foreign direct investments are limited or prohibited, the application of a VIE structure to control companies in a sector in which foreign direct investment is specifically prohibited carries increased risks. For example, if our structure is deemed in violation of PRC law, the PRC government could revoke the business license of the WFOE, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our business, corporate structure or operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us. We may also encounter difficulties in enforcing related contracts. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Due to the relationship between the WFOE and the VIEs, the PRC tax authorities may challenge our VIE structure, including the transfer prices used for related party transactions among our entities in China. Substantially all profits generated from the VIEs will be paid to the WFOE in China through related party transactions under contractual agreements. We believe that the terms of these contractual agreements are in compliance with the laws in China. However, the tax authorities in China have not examined these contractual agreements. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of the transfer pricing rules relating to related party transactions in China, it is possible that the tax authorities in China could challenge the transfer prices that we will use for related party transactions among our entities in China and this could increase our tax liabilities and diminish the profitability of our business in China, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We expect to rely, in part, on dividends paid by our WFOE and/or Erye to supply cash flow for our U.S. business, and statutory or contractual restrictions may limit their ability to pay dividends to us. We expect to rely partly on dividends paid to us under the Joint Venture Agreement, attributable to our 51% ownership interest in Erye, to meet our future cash needs. However, there can be no assurance that the WFOE in China will receive payments uninterrupted or at all as arranged under our contracts with the VIEs. In addition, pursuant to the Joint Venture Agreement that governs the ownership and management of Erye, for the next three years: (i) 49% of undistributed profits (after tax) will be distributed to EET and loaned back to Erye for use in connection with its construction of the new Erye facility; (ii) 45% of the net profit after tax will be provided to Erye as part of the new facility construction fund, which will be characterized as paid-in capital for our 51% interest in Erye; and (iii) only 6% of the net profit will be distributed to us directly for our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized under PRC law to non-PRC entities is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by our WFOE and Erye only out of accumulated distributable earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Moreover, our WFOE and Erye will be required to set aside a certain percentage of their accumulated after-tax profit each year, if any, to fund certain mandated reserve funds (for our WFOE, such percentage is at least 10% each year until its reserves have reached at least 50% of its registered capital), and these reserves are not payable or distributable as cash dividends. In addition, Erye is also required to reserve a portion of its after-tax profits for its employee welfare and bonus fund, the amount of which is subject to the discretion of the Erye board of directors. In addition, if Erye incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict Erye’s or the joint venture’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. This may diminish the cash flow we receive from Erye’s operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively. Our interests in China will be subject to China’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In particular, the initial capitalization and operating expenses of the two VIEs are funded by our WFOE. In China, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, regulates the conversion of the Chinese Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises are required to apply to the SAFE for Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates, or IC Cards of Enterprises with Foreign Investment. Foreign investment enterprises holding such registration certificates, which must be renewed annually, are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “basic account” and “capital account.” Currency translation within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investments, loans, and securities, require approval of the SAFE. According to the Notice of the General Affairs Department of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises promulgated on August 29, 2008, or the SAFE Notice 142, to apply to a bank for settlement of foreign currency capital, a foreign invested enterprise shall submit the documents certifying the uses of the RMB funds from the settlement of foreign currency capital and a detailed checklist on use of the RMB funds from the last settlement of foreign currency capital. It is stipulated that only if the funds for the settlement of foreign currency capital are of an amount not more than US$50,000 and are to be used for enterprise reserve, the above documents may be exempted by the bank. This SAFE Notice 142, along with the recent practice of Chinese banks of restricting foreign currency conversion for fear of “hot money” going into China, have limited and may continue to limit our ability to channel funds to the two VIE entities for their operation. We are exploring options with our PRC counsels and banking institutions in China as to acceptable methods of funding the operation of the two VIEs, including advances from Erye, but there can be no assurance that acceptable funding alternatives will be identified. Further, even if we find an acceptable funding alternative, there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Chinese currency. Future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our stockholders or to fund operations we may have outside of China, which could materially adversely effect our business and operating results. - 32 - - Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our operating results. We prepare our financial statements in U.S. dollars, while our underlying businesses operate in two currencies, U.S. dollars and Chinese Renminbi. It is anticipated that our Chinese operations will conduct their operations primarily in Renminbi and our U.S. operations will conduct their operations in dollars. At the present time we do not expect to have significant cross currency transactions that will be at risk to foreign currency exchange rates. Nevertheless, the conversion of financial information using a functional currency of Renminbi will be subject to risks related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and supply and demand in local markets. As we have significant operations in China, and will rely principally on revenues earned in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi could materially and adversely affect our financial results. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Beginning in July of 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the value of the Renminbi has fluctuated within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. However, the Chinese government has come under increasing U.S. and international pressure to revalue the Renminbi or to permit it to trade in a wider band, which many observers believe would lead to substantial appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other major currencies. There can be no assurance that Renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar. If China imposes economic restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in China could be severely curtailed, reducing the profitability of our operations in China. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. If prices for any products or services in China are unable, for any reason, to increase at a rate that is sufficient to compensate for any increase in the costs of supplies, materials or labor, it may have an adverse effect on the profitability of Erye and our operations in China would be adversely affected. In order to control inflation in the past, China has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending and could adopt additional measures to further combat inflation. Such measures could harm the economy generally and hurt our business by (i) limiting the income of our customers available to spend on our products and services, (ii) forcing us to lower our profit margins, and (iii) limiting our ability to obtain credit or other financing to pursue our expansion plans or maintain our business. We cannot predict with any certainty the degree to which our business will be adversely affected by slower economic growth in China. Erye’s manufacturing operations in China may be adversely affected by changes in PRC government policies regarding ownership of assets and allocation of resources to various industries and companies. While the PRC government has implemented economic and market reforms, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Should the PRC government change its policies regarding economic growth and private ownership of manufacturing and other assets of Erye, we may be unable to execute our business plan, we may lose rights to certain business assets and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed. If there are any adverse public health developments in China, our business and operations may be disrupted and medical tourism in China may decline, which could delay the launch of our stem cell therapies in China. - 33 - - Any prolonged occurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or other adverse public health developments in China or other regions where we operate could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. These could include the ability of our personnel to travel or to promote our services within China or in other regions where we operate, as well as temporary closure of our facilities. Any closures or travel or other operational restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. If the anticipated growth of medical tourism in China does not occur, or if fewer people travel abroad for the purpose of cosmetic or medical therapies for any reason, including limitations imposed by governmental authorities, we may not achieve our revenue and profit expectations. One part of our business plan involves launching innovative, safe, and effective adult stem cell-based therapies in China that have not yet been approved in the U.S., to generate sales revenues in advance of obtaining U.S. regulatory approvals. Different countries have different regulatory requirements and pathways resulting in the availability of therapeutics in one market prior to another. This phenomenon has led to the growth of an industry called “medical tourism” where patients travel to foreign locations and receive treatments that have not yet been approved in their home countries. If the anticipated growth of medical tourism in China does not occur, or if fewer people travel abroad for the purpose of cosmetic or medical therapies for any reason, including limitations imposed by governmental authorities,we may not achieve our revenue and profit expectations. Any setbacks to the implementation of our business plan could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. China is a developing nation governed by a one-party communist government and susceptible to political, economic, and social upheaval that could disrupt the economy. China is a developing country governed by a one-party government. China is also a country with an extremely large population, wide income gaps between rich and poor and between urban and rural residents, minority ethnic and religious populations, and growing access to information about the different social, economic, and political systems found in other countries. China has also experienced extremely rapid economic growth over the last decade, and its legal and regulatory systems have had to change rapidly to accommodate this growth. If China experiences political or economic upheaval, labor disruptions or other organized protests, nationalization of private businesses, civil strife, strikes, acts of war and insurrections, this may disrupt China’s economy and could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. If political relations between China and the U.S. deteriorate, our business in China may be materially and adversely affected. The relationship between China and the U.S. is subject to periodic tension. Relations may also be compromised if the U.S. becomes a more active advocate of Taiwan or pressures the PRC government regarding its monetary, economic or social policies. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or financial condition. In addition, because of our involvement in the Chinese market, any deterioration in political relations might cause a public perception in the U.S. or elsewhere that might cause the goods or services we may offer to become less attractive. If any of these events were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. China’s State Food and Drug Administration’s regulations may limit our ability to develop, license, manufacture and market our products and services. Some or all of our operations in China will be subject to oversight and regulation by the SFDA. Government regulations, among other things, cover the inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental considerations, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Such government regulations may increase our costs and prevent or delay the licensing, manufacturing and marketing of any of our products or services. In the event we seek to license, manufacture, sell or distribute new products or services, we likely will need approvals from certain government agencies such as the SFDA. The future growth and profitability of any operations in China would be contingent on obtaining the requisite approvals. There can be no assurance that we will obtain such approvals. In 2004, the SFDA implemented new guidelines for the licensing of pharmaceutical products. All existing manufacturers with licenses were required to apply for the Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, certifications. Erye has received the requisite certifications. However, should Erye fail to maintain its cGMP certifications or fail to obtain cGMP and other certifications for its new production facilities, this would have a material adverse effect on Erye’s and our business, results of operations and financial condition. - 34 - - In addition, delays, product recalls or failures to receive approval may be encountered based upon additional government regulation, legislative changes, administrative action or changes in governmental policy and interpretation applicable to the Chinese pharmaceutical industry. Our pharmaceutical activities also may subject us to government regulations with respect to product prices and other marketing and promotional related activities. Government regulations may substantially increase our costs for developing, licensing, manufacturing and marketing any products or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The SFDA and other regulatory authorities in China have implemented a series of new punitive and stringent measures regarding the pharmaceuticals industry to redress certain past misconducts in the industry and certain deficiencies in public health reform policies. Given the nature and extent of such new enforcement measures, the aggressive manner in which such enforcement is being conducted and the fact that newly-constituted local level branches are encouraged to issue such punishments and fines, there is the possibility of large scale and significant penalties being levied on manufacturers. These new measures may include fines, restriction and suspension of operations and marketing and other unspecified penalties. This new regulatory environment has added significantly to the risks of our businesses in China and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In China, we plan to conduct research and development activities related to stem cells in cooperation with two domestic Chinese companies. If these activities are regarded by PRC government authorities as “human genetic resources research and development activities,” additional approvals by PRC government authorities will be required. Our research and development activities in adult stem cells in China are conducted in cooperation with the Beijing Stem Cell Research Center, or Lab, and a consultant, the Shandong Life Science Institute and Technology Research, or SLSI. Pursuant to the Interim Measures for the Administration of Human Genetic Resources, or the Measures, that took effect on June 10, 1998, China maintains a reporting and registration system on important pedigrees and genetic resources in specified regions. All entities and individuals involved in sampling, collecting, researching, developing, trading or exporting human genetic resources or taking such resources outside China must abide by the Measures. “Human genetic resources” refers to genetic materials such as human organs, tissues, cells, blood specimens, preparations or any type of recombinant DNA constructs, which contain human genome, genes or gene products as well as to the information related to such genetic materials. It is possible that our research and development activities conducted by the Lab or SLSI in cooperation with us in China may be regarded by PRC government authorities as human genetic resources research and development activities, and thus will be subject to approval by PRC government authorities. The sharing of patents or other corresponding intellectual property rights derived from such research and development operations is also subject to various restrictions and approval requirements established under the Measures. With regard to the ownership of intellectual property rights derived from human genetic resources research and development, the Measures provide that the China-based research and development institution shall have priority access to information about the human genetic resources within China, particularly the important pedigrees and genetic resources in the specified regions and the relevant data, information and specimens and any transfer of such human genetic resources to other institutions shall be prohibited without obtaining corresponding approval from the Human Genetic Resource Administration Office of China, among other governmental authorities or agencies. No foreign collaborating institution or individual that has access to the above-mentioned information may publicize, publish, apply for patent rights or disclose it by any other means without obtaining government approval. In a collaborative research and development project involving human genetic resources of China between any Chinese and foreign institutions, intellectual property rights shall be allocated according to the following principles: (i) patent rights shall be jointly applied for by both parties and the resulting patent rights shall be owned by both parties if an achievement resulting from the collaboration is patentable; (ii) either party has the right to exploit such patent separately or jointly in its own country, subject to the terms of the collaboration; however, the transfer of such patent to any third party or authorizing any third party to implement such patent shall be carried out upon agreement of both parties, and the benefits obtained thereof shall be shared in accordance with their respective contributions; and (iii) the right of utilizing, transferring and sharing any other scientific achievement resulted from the collaboration shall be specified in the collaborative contract or agreement signed by both parties. Both parties are equally entitled to make use of the achievement which is not specified in the collaborative contract or agreement; however, the transfer of such achievement to any third party shall be carried out upon agreement of both parties, and the benefits obtained thereof shall be shared in accordance with their respective contributions. If the research and development operations conducted by the Lab or SLSI in cooperation with us in China are regarded by PRC government authorities as human genetic resources research and development activities, we may be required to obtain approval from PRC governmental authorities to continue such operations and the Measures may adversely affect our rights to intellectual property developed from such operations. Our inability to access intellectual property, or our inability to obtain required on a timely basis, or at all, could materially and adversely affect our operations in China, and our operating results and financial condition. Erye will lose certain preferential tax concessions, which may cause our tax liabilities to increase and its profitability to decline. The National People’s Congress of China enacted a new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, that went into effect on January 1, 2008. Domestic-invested enterprises and foreign-invested entities now are subject to enterprise income tax at a uniform rate of 25% unless they qualify for limited exceptions. During the transition period for enterprises established before March 16, 2007, the tax rate will gradually increase starting in 2008 and will be equal to the new tax rate in 2012. As a result, Erye will lose its preferential tax rates. - 35 - - Because of the EIT Law, we expect that the tax liabilities of Erye will increase. Any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to Erye or other adverse tax treatments could increase Erye’s tax liabilities and reduce its net income, which could have a material adverse effect on Erye’s and our results of operations and financial condition. Some of the laws and regulations governing our business in China are vague and subject to risks of interpretation. Some of the PRC laws and regulations governing our business operations in China are vague and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. These include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations governing our business and the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. Despite their uncertainty, we will be required to comply. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed businesses may be applied retroactively. Accordingly, the effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may not be clear. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. In addition, pursuant to China’s Administrative Measures on the Foreign Investment in Commercial Sector, foreign enterprises are permitted to establish or invest in wholly foreign-owned enterprises or joint ventures that engage in wholesale or retail sales of pharmaceuticals in China subject to the implementation of relevant regulations. However, no specific regulations in this regard have been promulgated to date, which creates uncertainty. If specific regulations are not promulgated, or if any promulgated regulations contain clauses that cause an adverse impact to our operations in China, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The laws and regulations governing the therapeutic use of stem cells in China are evolving. New PRC laws and regulations may impose conditions or requirements with which could materially and adversely affect our business. As the stem cell therapy industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the stem cell therapy industry. There is no way to predict the content or scope of future Chinese stem cell regulation. There can be no assurance that the PRC government authorities will not issue new laws or regulations that impose conditions or requirements with which we cannot comply. Noncompliance could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Until implementing rules are issued with regard to the PRC Antitrust Law, we are unable to determine whether our operations comply. It is expected that a set of detailed implementing rules of the PRC Antitrust Law will be issued by the PRC government. We are now in the process of reviewing our current business model and business operation against the current PRC Antitrust Law. However, before the promulgation of such implementing rules, we are unable to determine whether we might be in violation of any aspects of the PRC Antitrust Law. A violation of the PRC Antitrust law could subject our operations to sanctions, fines and other governmental enforcement action any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other PRC government authorities if we or our PRC employees fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by offshore listed companies to PRC citizens. On April 6, 2007, the SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company,” referred to as Circular 78. It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from the SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with the SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. The 2009 Non-U.S. Plan authorizes the grant of certain equity awards to our officers, directors and employees, some of whom are PRC citizens. Circular 78 may require our officers, directors and employees who receive option grants and are PRC citizens to register with the SAFE. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our officers, directors and employees through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. - 36 - - Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. There can be no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC, which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and to non-PRC stockholders. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes, although the dividends paid to one resident enterprise from another may qualify as “tax-exempt income.” The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. The EIT Law and its implementing rules are relatively new and ambiguous in terms of some definitions, requirements and detailed procedures, and currently no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification, other than for enterprises established outside of China whose main holding investor/s is/are enterprise/s established in China, is available; therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, the PRC could impose a 10% PRC tax on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. In addition, we could be subject to a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences, including: (a) we could be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations; and (b) although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries through our sub-holding companies may qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to withholding tax. Any increase in the taxation of our PRC-based revenues could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Taxing authorities in the PRC may attempt to impose a capital gains tax on the transfer of the ownership of the 51% ownership interest in Erye. Transactions involving the Merger of two non-PRC companies, but that result in the change in ownership of joint venture interests in the PRC, historically have not been taxed by the taxing authorities in the PRC. However, recently the taxing authorities in the PRC have levied capital gains tax at the rate of approximately 10% of the gain on a few real estate and mining transactions that resulted in a change in ownership in joint ventures located in the PRC. There can be no assurance that the PRC taxing authorities will not impose a capital gains tax of approximately 10% of the gain on the transfer to us of ownership of the 51% equity interests in Erye. Risks Related to Our Securities Our common stock has had limited trading volume. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE Amex and has had limited trading volume since its listing on August 9, 2007. Low volumes can result in fluctuating prices and downward pressure on the price per share should there develop an imbalance between the shares available for sale and the number of shares sought to be purchased. We cannot assure you that the liquidity of our common stock will improve or that it will not decline from current levels. Our Class A Warrants also trade on the NYSE Amex, but have had very limited trading volume. Investors holding our common stock may find it difficult to dispose of such shares. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may be more volatile in the future. In addition to our low stock trading volume, some of the other factors contributing to our stock’s price volatility include announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by us or by our competition, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results, our success in commercializing our business, market conditions for healthcare stocks in general as well as economic recession. Any of these factors could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. - 37 - - Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. CBH reported several material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting and concluded that it did not have effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2009. If we fail to (1) remediate the material weaknesses identified in CBH’s internal control over financial reporting that are continuing with regard to Erye, and integrate CBH’s internal control over financial reporting pertaining to Erye with ours, or (2) we fail to maintain the adequacy of internal control over our financial reporting with regard to the financial condition and results of operations of Erye, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time. During the course of testing our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may identify and disclose material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that will have to be remedied. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal control may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain that adequacy or inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could result in our financial statements being unreliable, increase our operating costs and materially impair our ability to operate our business. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Additionally, failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could result in government investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. Please see Item 9A – Management’s Annual Report in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting for a discussion of material weaknesses and the Company’s remediation efforts. We have a significant number of securities convertible into, or allowing the purchase of our common stock. Investors could be subject to increased dilution. Also, the issuance of additional shares as a result of such conversion or purchase, or their subsequent sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Investors in our company will be subject to increased dilution upon conversion of our preferred stock and upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants. There were 43,946,031 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 24, 2010. As of that date, preferred stock outstanding could be converted into 9,086,124 shares of our common stock and stock options and warrants outstanding that are exercisable represented an additional 19,838,802 shares of our common stock that could be issued (for which cash would need to be remitted to us for exercise) in the future. Most of the outstanding shares of our common stock, as well as the vast majority of the shares of our common stock that may be issued under our outstanding options and warrants, are not restricted from trading or have the contractual right to be registered. Any significant increase in the number of shares offered for sale could cause the supply of our common stock available for purchase in the market to exceed the purchase demand for our common stock. Such supply in excess of demand could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Actual and beneficial ownership of large quantities of our common stock by our executive officers, directors, and other substantial stockholders, may substantially reduce the influence of other stockholders. As of March 15, 2010, our executive officers, directors, and 5%-or-more stockholders collectively beneficially owned 35,763,482 shares of our common stock. These beneficial holdings represent 58.7% of our common stock on a fully-diluted basis. As a result, such persons may have the ability to exercise enhanced control over the approval process for actions that require stockholder approval, including: the election of our directors and the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other significant corporate transactions or other matters submitted for stockholder approval. Because of the beneficial ownership position of these persons and entities, other stockholders may have less influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. Furthermore, at certain times the interests of our substantial stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Some of our directors and officers have positions of responsibility with other entities, and therefore have loyalties and fiduciary obligations to both our company and such other entities. These dual positions subject such persons to conflicts of interest in related party transactions which may cause such related party transactions to have consequences to the our company that are less favorable than those which our Company could have attained in comparable transactions with unaffiliated entities. Eric H.C. Wei, a member of our Board of Directors, is also the Managing Partner of RimAsia Capital Partners, L.P., or RimAsia. RimAsia, a substantial stockholder of our company, beneficially owns 46.3% of our common stock as of March 15, 2010. Shi Mingsheng (who became a director of our company in March 2010) and Madam Zhang Jian (the General Manager of Erye), together with certain other persons, have shared voting and dispositive power over the shares of our common stock held by Fullbright Finance Limited, or Fullbright. Fullbright is a substantial stockholder of our company, beneficially owning 9.9% of our common stock as of March 15, 2010. These relationships create, or, at a minimum, appear to create potential conflicts of interest when members of our company’s senior management are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company and the other entities with which our directors or officers are associated. - 38 - - Although our company has established procedures designed to ensure that material related party transactions are fair to the company, no assurance can be given as to how potentially conflicted board members or officers will evaluate their fiduciary duties to our company and to other entities that they may owe fiduciary duties, respectively, or how such individuals will act in such circumstances. Furthermore, the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts ultimately do not harm our company, might adversely affect the public’s perception of our business, as well as its relationship with its existing customers, licensors, licensees and service providers and its ability to enter into new relationships in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 