ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in BSD or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Although the Company has attempted to list the factors of which it is currently aware that may have an impact on its operations, there may be other factors of which the Company is currently unaware or to which it does not assign sufficient significance, and the following list should not be considered comprehensive. We have a history of significant operating losses and such losses may continue in the future. Since our inception in 1978, our expenses have substantially exceeded our revenue, resulting in continuing losses and an accumulated deficit of $29,416,587 at August 31, 2011. We reported net losses of $5,285,517, $7,456,948 and $11,384,870 in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We may continue to incur operating losses in the future as we continue to incur costs to develop our products, protect our intellectual property and expand our sales and marketing activities. To become profitable we will need to increase significantly the revenues we receive from sales of our hyperthermia systems and to successfully commercialize our MicroThermX® to improve our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have been unable to do this in the past and we may be unable to do so in the future, and therefore may never achieve profitability. Adverse worldwide economic conditions have made it difficult for our customers to obtain approval for the purchase of and funding for our hyperthermia systems. Our hyperthermia cancer treatment systems represent capital equipment purchases for our customers. Adverse worldwide economic conditions have made it difficult for our customers to obtain approval for the purchase of and funding for our hyperthermia systems. This has contributed to a lack of growth in the worldwide sales of our systems. To the extent that adverse economic conditions continue, we believe our sales of hyperthermia systems will continue to be negatively impacted. 18 Our revenues can fluctuate significantly from period to period because our sales to date have been based upon a relatively small number of systems, the sales price of each being substantial enough to greatly impact revenue levels in the periods in which they occur. Our revenues can fluctuate significantly from period to period because our sales, to date, have been based upon a relatively small number of hyperthermia systems, the sales price of each being substantial enough to greatly impact revenue levels in the periods in which they occur. Sales of a few systems, particularly BSD-2000/3D/MR systems, can cause a large change in our revenues from period to period and the sales cycle for our systems generally extends over multiple financial reporting periods. In addition, differences in the configuration of the systems sold, pricing, and other factors can result in significant differences in the sales price per system and in the total revenues reported in a given period. As a result, there may be quarterly financial reporting periods where we may report no or minimal revenues from the sale of hyperthermia systems. A significant portion of our revenues have been from related parties, and we have had significant concentrations of revenues in foreign countries. During the years ended August 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we had sales of $1,063,495, $309,259 and $603,000, respectively, to entities controlled by a significant stockholder and member of our Board of Directors. These related party transactions represent approximately 35%, 20% and 17% of total sales for each respective year. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from sales to foreign customers. During fiscal year 2011, export sales to Germany were approximately 35% total sales. During fiscal year 2010, export sales to China and Germany were approximately 23% and 12% of total sales, respectively. During fiscal year 2009, export sales to China, Switzerland and Poland were approximately 16%, 13% and 14% of total sales, respectively. To the extent that we are unable to maintain or increase the level of our revenues derived from related parties or foreign customers, the results of our operations could be negatively impacted. We have obtained FDA clearance to market our MicroThermX® Microwave Ablation System, and recently completed nationwide sales coverage for the MicroThermX® family of products. We cannot be assured that our efforts to commercialize the MicroThermX® will be successful. In August 2010, the FDA granted us a 510(k) clearance to market our MicroThermX® Microwave Ablation System for ablation of soft tissue, authorizing the commercial sale of the MicroThermX® in the United States. Our MicroThermX® represents a major part of our business plan moving forward and introduces into our product line an innovative, high-end disposable that is used in each ablation treatment and which we believe will provide a significant ongoing revenue stream. In June 2011, we completed nationwide sales coverage for the MicroThermX® line of products through signing exclusive agreements with four leading specialty distributors and hiring additional regional sales management. In addition, we have placed a select number of MicroThermX® systems with pivotal, high-profile, interventional oncology key opinion leaders. This increased sales activity has resulted in a full schedule of clinical evaluations and an increase in the number of sites that may decide to purchase equipment following clinical evaluations. However, we believe the sales cycle for the MicroThermX® may extend up to six months, and we currently are unable to predict when significant revenues from the sale of the MicroThermX® and related antennas will begin. We cannot be assured that our efforts to commercialize the MicroThermX® will be successful. If our efforts to commercialize the MicroThermX® are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. 19 International sales of our MicroThermX® family of products depend on our ability to successfully establish our international sales distribution channels. With our United States sales and distribution network in place for our MicroThermX® family of products, we are placing significant emphasis on Europe and other international markets. We recently hired an International Sales Manager, have met with several international distribution firms and have started contract negotiations with select European based firms. International sales of our MicroThermX® family of products will depend on our ability to successfully establish sales distribution channels in Europe and other international markets. If these efforts are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. Our hyperthermia therapy products may not achieve market acceptance, which could limit our future revenue and ability to achieve profitability. To date, hyperthermia therapy has not gained wide acceptance by cancer-treating physicians. We believe this is due in part to the lingering impression created by the inability of early hyperthermia therapy technologies to focus and control heat directed at specific tissue locations as well as inaccurate conclusions drawn in early scientific studies that hyperthermia was only marginally effective. Additionally, market acceptance depends upon physicians and hospitals obtaining adequate reimbursement rates from third-party payors to make our products commercially viable, and we believe that reimbursement rates have not been adequate to stimulate strong interest in adopting hyperthermia as a new cancer therapy. If our sales and marketing efforts to promote hyperthermia therapy acceptance in the medical community fail, or our efforts to improve third-party reimbursement rates for hyperthermia therapy are not successful, then our future revenue from sales of our products may be limited, and we may never be able to obtain profitable recurring operations. Sales of our products could be significantly reduced if government, private health insurers and other third-party payors do not provide sufficient coverage or reimbursement. Our success in selling our products will depend in large part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of our products and related treatments are available from government health agencies, private health insurers and other third-party payers. Despite the existence of general reimbursement policies, local medical review policies may differ for public and private insurance payers, which may cause payment to be refused for some hyperthermia treatments. Private payers also may refuse to pay for hyperthermia treatments. Medical reimbursement rates are unpredictable and we cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by future legislative and regulatory developments. Future health care legislation or regulation may limit our business or impose additional delays and costs on our business and third-party reimbursement may not be adequate to cover our costs associated with producing and selling our products. Cancer therapy is subject to rapid technological change and therapies that are more effective than ours could render our technology obsolete. The treatment of cancer is currently subject to extensive research and development. Many cancer therapies are being researched and our products may be rendered obsolete by existing therapies and as a result of therapy innovations by others. If our products are rendered obsolete, our revenue will decline, we may never achieve profitability, and we may not be able to continue in business. Additionally, other companies, particularly established companies that currently manufacture and sell other cancer therapy systems, could potentially become competitors (in that they are also engaged in the cancer treatment business), and they have significantly greater resources than we do. 20 Increasing sales of our hyperthermia systems depends on our ability to successfully expand our sales distribution channels; however, we have had failures with the productivity of new channels of distribution in the past. Expanding our channels of distribution will also significantly increase our sales expenses, which could negatively impact our financial performance. We believe that the success of our efforts to increase sales of our hyperthermia systems in the future depends on our ability to successfully expand our sales distribution channels. Historically, we have sometimes failed in establishing successful new sales channels. We anticipate that the success of our multi-year plan for selling hyperthermia systems will require expanding our sales and marketing organization through a combination of direct sales people, distributors and internal and external marketing expertise. However, as we pursue our marketing plan, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing reliable channels of distribution to meet our plan through expanded sales. Recruiting and training new distribution channels can take time and considerable expense. We project that sales and marketing expenses will increase substantially in the future as compared to past years. This added expense could have an adverse effect on our future financial performance that is greater than any potential increases in sales. In addition, there can be no assurance that our channels of distribution that have been successful in the past will be successful in the future. We have derived a significant portion of our revenue from sales in Europe and in China. Sales in Europe were made through our distributor Dr. Sennewald Medizintechnik GmbH, which also purchases equipment components and parts from us. Medizintechnik is controlled by Dr. Sennewald, one of our directors. The loss or ineffectiveness of either Medizintechnik or our Chinese distributor as a distributor and significant customer could result in lower revenue. We may face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. We anticipate that the current administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. Public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. The uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation may have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. At this time, we cannot predict which, if any, healthcare reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on our business. We are subject to government regulations that can delay our ability to sell our products and cause us to incur substantial expenses. Our research and development efforts, pre-clinical tests and clinical trials, and the manufacturing, marketing, distribution and labeling of our products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable international agencies. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive and our financial resources are limited. The FDA is currently considering a number of reforms in its regulatory processes, which may make the FDA review process longer and more cumbersome for medical devices. Obtaining pre-market approval or marketing clearance as a 510(k) submission from the FDA is necessary for us to commercially market our systems in the United States. Obtaining approvals is a lengthy and expensive process. We may not be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, if at all, and such failure could harm our business prospects substantially. Further, even if we are able to obtain the approvals we seek from the FDA, the approvals granted might include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed, which restrictions could negatively impact our business. As described above in “Business—Our Products and Services”, the FDA is currently reviewing our HDE marketing submission for the BSD-2000. We are unable to predict when the review process will be completed and its ultimate outcome. If we are unable to receive HDE marketing approval, or if the FDA requires us to undergo extensive testing in order to grant HDE marketing approval, our business could be adversely affected. 21 After a product is approved for commercial distribution by the FDA, we have ongoing responsibilities under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations, including regulation of our manufacturing facilities and processes, labeling and record-keeping, and reporting of adverse experiences and other information. Failure to comply with these ongoing requirements could result in the FDA imposing operating restrictions on us, enjoining or restraining certain violations, or imposing civil or criminal penalties on us. All of these laws are subject to evolving interpretations. If the federal government were to conclude that we are not in compliance with any of these health care laws, we could be subject to substantial criminal and civil penalties, and could be excluded from participation as a supplier to beneficiaries in federal health care programs. We depend on adequate protection of our patent and other intellectual property rights to stay competitive. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Our success will substantially depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and maintain rights granted to us through license agreements. Our intellectual property rights may only afford us limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or remedies to gain or keep any advantages we may have over our competitors, which could reduce our ability to be competitive and generate sales and profitability. In the past, we have participated in substantial litigation regarding our patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. We have previously filed lawsuits for patent infringement against three of our competitors and subsequently settled all three of those lawsuits. Additional litigation against other parties may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patents and trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. This litigation may require more financial resources than are available to us. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully protect our rights in litigation. Failure to successfully protect our rights in litigation could reduce our ability to be competitive and generate sales and profitability. A product liability settlement could exceed our ability to pay. The manufacturing and marketing of medical devices involves an inherent risk of product liability. We presently carry product liability insurance with coverage limits of $5 million. Our product liability insurance does not cover intended injury, injury or damage resulting from the intoxication of any person, payment of workers’ compensation benefits, injury of our own employee, injury or damage due to war, damage to property that we own, damage to our work, loss of use of property, patent infringements, pollution claims, interest payments, depreciation of property, or injury or damage resulting from asbestos inhalation. We are responsible to pay the first $10,000 resulting from any claim up to a maximum of $50,000 in one year. We cannot assure that our product liability insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims that might be made against us. If we were to be subject to a claim in excess of our coverage or to a claim not covered by our insurance and the claim succeeded, we would be required to pay the claim from our limited resources, which would reduce our limited capital resources and liquidity and reduce capital we could otherwise use to obtain approvals for and market our products. In addition, liability or alleged liability could harm our business by diverting the attention and resources of our management and by damaging our reputation. 22 We are dependent upon key personnel, some of whom would be difficult to replace. Our success will be largely dependent upon the efforts of Harold R. Wolcott, our President, Steven M. Smith, our Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Business Development, Dixie Toolson Sells, our Vice President of Regulatory Affairs, Dennis P. Gauger, our Chief Financial Officer, and other key employees. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of these employees. Our future success also will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel could make it more difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives such as the sale of our products and the introduction of new products. The market for our stock is limited and our stock price may be volatile. The market for our common stock has been limited due to low trading volume and the small number of brokerage firms acting as market makers. Because of the limitations of our market and volatility of the market price of our stock, investors may face difficulties in selling shares at attractive prices when they want to. The average daily trading volume for our stock has varied significantly from week to week and from month to month, and the trading volume often varies widely from day to day. The following factors could impact the market for our stock and cause further volatility in our stock price: · announcements of new technological innovations; · FDA and other regulatory developments and changes; · changes in third-party reimbursements; · developments concerning proprietary rights; · third parties receiving FDA approval for competing products; and · market conditions generally for medical and technology stocks. Our directors and executive officers own a substantial number of shares of our capital stock, which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our directors and executive officers own approximately 23% of our outstanding voting power. Accordingly, these stockholders, individually and as a group, may be able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes involving the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the approval of certain mergers or other similar transactions, such as a sale of substantially all of our assets. Such control by existing stockholders could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. 23 Future sales of shares of our securities pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement may negatively affect our stock price. We currently have the ability to offer and sell up to $50.0 million of common stock, preferred stock, warrants, senior debt, subordinated debt or units under a currently effective universal shelf registration statement. We have previously completed four offerings utilizing our universal shelf registration statement. Each of these offerings was completed during calendar year 2010. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under our universal shelf registration statement could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have a possible negative effect on our stock price. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. We have in place several anti-takeover measures that could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. The increased difficulties faced by a third party who wishes to acquire us could adversely affect our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 