Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company’s operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The matters relating to the investigation by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors and the restatement of the Company’s consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation and governmental enforcement actions. On June 29, 2006, the Company announced that an internal review had discovered irregularities related to the issuance of certain stock option grants made between 1997 and 2001, including a grant to its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Steve Jobs. The Company also announced a Special Committee of outside directors (“Special Committee”) had been formed and had hired independent counsel to conduct a full investigation of the Company’s past stock option granting practices. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 2 “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, as a result of the internal review and independent investigation, management has concluded, and the Audit and Finance Committee agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants made in 20 certain prior periods. As a result, the Company has recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard to certain past stock option grants, and the Company has restated certain previously filed financial statements included in this Form 10-K. The internal review, the independent investigation, and related activities have required the Company to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted management’s attention from the Company’s business, and could in the future harm its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While the Company believes it has made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for its stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which the Company has accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk the Company may have to further restate its prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. The Company’s past stock option granting practices and the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed the Company to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. As described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in state and federal courts against the Company’s directors and certain of its executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. The Company has provided the results of its internal review and independent investigation to the SEC and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California, and in that regard the Company has responded to informal requests for documents and additional information. The Company intends to continue full cooperation. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to the Company’s past stock option practices. The resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and will distract management from the conduct of the Company’s business. Furthermore, if the Company is subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, the Company could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In August 2006, the Company received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating that, as a result of the delayed filing of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2006 (the “Third Quarter Form 10-Q”), the Company was not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and was therefore subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. On October 24, 2006, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel granted the Company’s request for continued listing, subject to the Company filing the Third Quarter Form 10-Q, and any required restatements, with the SEC by December 29, 2006. On December 29, 2006, the Company filed the Third Quarter Form 10-Q with the SEC. With the filing of this Form 10-K, the Company believes that it has remedied its non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to NASDAQ’s affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its notification of the Company accordingly. However, if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which the Company has accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports that might result in delisting of the Company’s common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. The Company is also subject to certain other legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and which have not been fully adjudicated. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, litigation may be disruptive to the Company’s normal 21 business operations. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain legal matters, the Company’s financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations could be adversely affected. Economic conditions and political events could adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products and the financial health of its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. The Company’s operating performance depends significantly on economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad. At times in the past, demand for the Company’s products has been negatively impacted by difficult global economic conditions. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast future demand for the Company’s products and related operating results. Should global and/or regional economic conditions deteriorate, demand for the Company’s products could be adversely affected, as could the financial health of its suppliers, distributors, and resellers. War, terrorism, public health issues, and other circumstances could disrupt supply, delivery, or demand of products, which could negatively affect the Company’s operations and performance. War, terrorism, public health issues, and other business interruptions, whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and global economy, and thus may have a strong negative impact on the global economy, the Company, and the Company’s suppliers or customers. The Company’s major business operations are subject to interruption by earthquake, other natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. The majority of the Company’s research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, such events could result in a decrease in demand for the Company’s products, make it difficult or impossible for the Company to deliver products to its customers or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Company’s supply chain. In addition, should major public health issues including pandemics arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in the availability of freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between various regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Company’s manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The Company’s operating results and financial condition have been, and in the future may be, adversely affected by such events. The market for personal computers and related peripherals and services, as well as digital music devices and related services, is highly competitive. If the Company is unable to effectively compete in these markets, its results of operations could be adversely affected. The personal computer industry is highly competitive and is characterized by aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors, price sensitivity on the part of consumers, and a large number of competitors. Price competition in the market for personal computers and related peripherals has been particularly intense as competitors who sell Windows and Linux based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for personal computing products. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition have been, and in the future may continue to be, adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures and downward pressures on gross margins. 22 The personal computer industry has also been characterized by rapid technological advances in software functionality, hardware performance, and features based on existing or emerging industry standards. Further, as the personal computer industry and its customers place more reliance on the Internet, an increasing number of Internet devices that are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for market share with the Company’s existing products. Several competitors of the Company have targeted certain of the Company’s key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. Several of the Company’s competitors have introduced digital music products and/or online stores offering digital music distribution that mimic many of the unique design, technical features, and solutions of the Company’s products. The Company has a significant number of competitors, many of whom have broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than those of the Company. Additionally, there has been a trend towards consolidation in the personal computer industry that has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors in the Company’s markets. The Company is currently the only maker of hardware using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal computer market, which is dominated by makers of computers utilizing competing operating systems, including Windows and Linux. The Company’s future operating results and financial condition are substantially dependent on its ability to continue to develop improvements to the Macintosh platform to maintain perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. Additionally, if unauthorized copies of the Mac OS are used on other companies’ hardware products and result in decreased demand for the Company’s hardware products, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company is currently focused on market opportunities related to digital music distribution and related consumer electronic devices, including iPods. The Company faces significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music products including MP3 players, music enabled cell phones, free peer-to-peer music and video services, and free streaming of digital content via the Internet. These competitors include both new entrants with different market approaches, such as subscription services models, and also larger companies that may have significant technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and digital content supplier relationships. Failure to effectively compete could negatively affect the Company’s operating results and financial position. The Company expects competition in this space to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Company’s approach to tightly integrating these components within their individual offerings or work more collaboratively with each other to offer solutions that are more integrated than those they offer currently. Some of these current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss to compete with the Company’s offerings. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that effectively compete in these markets. The Company may also have to respond to price competition by lowering prices and/or increasing features which could adversely affect the Company’s music product gross margins as well as overall Company gross margins. The Company also faces significant competition in the U.S. education market. U.S. elementary and secondary schools, as well as college and university customers, remain a core market for the Company. In an effort to gain market share and remain competitive, the Company will continue to pursue one-to-one (1:1) learning solutions in education. 1:1 learning solutions typically consist of a portable computer for every student and teacher along with the installation of a wireless network. These 1:1 learning solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more aggressively and could result in significantly less profitability or financial losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes it has taken certain steps to strengthen its position in the education market, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase or maintain its share of the education market or execute profitably on large strategic 23 arrangements. Failure to do so may have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Future operating results are dependent upon the Company’s ability to obtain a sufficient supply of components, including microprocessors, some of which are in short supply or available only from limited sources. Although most components essential to the Company’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources. Some key components (including without limitation DRAM, NAND flash-memory, and TFT-LCD flat-panel displays), while currently available to the Company from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide availability and pricing pressures. In addition, new products introduced by the Company often initially utilize custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. In situations where a component or product utilizes new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until such time as the suppliers’ yields have matured. The Company and other producers in the personal computer and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer or consumer electronics industries. Continued availability of these components may be affected if producers decided to concentrate on the production of components other than those customized to meet the Company’s requirements. If the supply of a key component were delayed or constrained on a new or existing product, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions to remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, which are characterized by dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products to remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions of the Company’s existing products. The success of new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance; the Company’s ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, including the transition to Intel-based Macintosh computers, and production ramp issues; the availability of application software for new products; the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect new products will have on its sales or results of operations. In June 2005, the Company announced its plan to begin using Intel microprocessors in its computers. During 2006, the Company introduced new Intel-based models of the MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac, and Mac mini computers. The Company’s transition to Intel microprocessors for Macintosh systems was completed in August 2006, and its transition for Xserve was completed in November 2006. This transition has been and will continue to be subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including the timely innovation and delivery of related hardware and software products to support Intel microprocessors, market acceptance of Intel-based Macintosh computers, and the development and availability on acceptable terms of components and services essential to enable the Company to timely deliver Intel-based Macintosh computers. In addition, the Company is dependent on third-party software developers such as Microsoft and Adobe to timely develop current and future applications that run on Intel-based Macintosh computers. Universal versions of Microsoft Office and Adobe’s Creative Suite applications are not currently available. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its 24 historical gross margin percentages on its products, including Intel-based Macintosh computers, which may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s products from time to time experience quality problems that can result in decreased net sales and operating profits. The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects in design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those sold by the Company, often contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software. Defects may also occur in components and products the Company purchases from third-parties. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware and software it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, loss of reputation, and significant warranty and other expense to remedy. Because orders for components, and in some cases commitments to purchase components, must be placed in advance of customer orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk. The Company records a write-down for inventories of components and products that have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees for orders of products and components that have been cancelled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions are currently adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the computer and consumer electronics industries and the transition to Intel-based Macintosh computers, no assurance can be given that the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. In addition, such charges have had, and may have, a material effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product shipments. Because the Company’s markets are volatile and subject to rapid technology and price changes, and because of the transition to Intel-based Macintosh computers, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and produce or order from third parties excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments typically cover the Company’s forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. The Company’s operating results and financial condition have been in the past and may in the future be materially adversely affected by the Company’s ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. The Company is dependent on manufacturing and logistics services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. Most of the Company’s products are manufactured in whole or in part by third-party manufacturers. In addition, the Company has outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing arrangements may lower the cost of operations, they also reduce the Company’s direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of the products manufactured or services rendered, or the flexibility of the Company to respond to changing market conditions. In addition, the Company is reliant on third-party manufacturers to adhere to the Company’s supplier code of conduct. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain at least initially responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could adversely affect the Company’s future operating results and financial condition. 25 Final assembly of products sold by the Company is currently performed in the Company’s manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland, and by external vendors in Fremont, California; Fullerton, California; Taiwan; the Republic of Korea; the People’s Republic of China; and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacturing of many of the components used in the Company’s products is performed by third-party vendors in Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Final assembly of substantially all of the Company’s portable products, including MacBook Pros, MacBooks, and iPods, is performed by third-party vendors in China. If for any reason manufacturing or logistics in any of these locations is disrupted by regional economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, or due to information technology system failures or military actions, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company’s future operating performance is dependent on the performance of distributors and other resellers of the Company’s products. The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, and cataloguers, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. In addition, the Company sells many of its products and resells certain third-party products in most of its major markets directly to end-users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online stores around the world and its retail stores. Many of the Company’s resellers operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively impacted in the past by weak economic conditions. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with the Company’s distribution and retail channel partners. The Company’s business and financial results could be adversely affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers within consumer channels were to cease distribution of the Company’s products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Company’s products caused resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company’s products. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in various programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors. These programs could require a substantial investment from the Company, while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue to offset this investment. Over the past several years, an increasing proportion of the Company’s net sales have been made by the Company directly to end-users through its online stores around the world and through its retail stores in the U.S., Canada, Japan, and the U.K. Some of the Company’s resellers have perceived this expansion of the Company’s direct sales as conflicting with their own businesses and economic interests as distributors and resellers of the Company’s products. Perception of such a conflict could discourage the Company’s resellers from investing additional resources in the distribution and sale of the Company’s products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of the Company’s products. The Company’s business and financial results could be adversely affected if expansion of its direct sales to end-users causes some or all of its resellers to cease or limit distribution of the Company’s products. The Company relies on third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The Company contracts with third parties to offer their digital content to customers through the Company’s iTunes Store. The Company pays substantial fees to obtain the rights to offer to its customers this third-party digital content. The Company’s licensing arrangements with these third-party content providers are short-term in nature and do not guarantee the future renewal of these arrangements at commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Certain parties in the music industry have consolidated and formed alliances, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required to offer digital content to customers through the iTunes Store. Some third-party content providers currently or may in the future offer music products and services that compete with the Company’s music products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license their digital content in the future. Further, other distributors of third-party content or third-party content owners may seek to limit 26 the Company’s access to or increase the total cost of such content. If the Company is unable to continue to offer a wide variety of digital content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach outside the U.S., then sales and gross margins of the Company’s iTunes Store, as well as related hardware and peripherals, including iPods, may be adversely affected. Third-party content providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights management (“DRM”) solutions and other security mechanisms. If the requirements from content providers or artists change, then the Company may be required to further develop or license technology to address such new rights and requirements. In addition, certain countries have passed legislation or may propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM solutions so that content would be interoperable with competitor devices, which could lessen the protection of content subjecting it to piracy and could affect arrangements with the Company’s content suppliers. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, if at all, which could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial position. The Company’s future performance is dependent upon support from third-party software developers. If third-party software applications cease to be developed or available for the Company’s hardware products, then customers may choose not to buy the Company’s products. The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase the Company’s personal computers, as opposed to Windows-based systems, are often based on the availability of third-party software applications such as Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the availability of third-party application software for the Company’s hardware products depends in part on third-party developers’ perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company’s products versus software for the larger Windows market or growing Linux market. This analysis may be based on factors such as the perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated potential revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac OS X, and the costs of developing such software products. To the extent the minority market share held by the Company in the personal computer market has caused software developers to question the Company’s prospects in the personal computer market, developers could be less inclined to develop new application software or upgrade existing software for the Company’s products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market or growing Linux market. The Company’s recent announcement that it plans to add a feature to the next version of Mac OS X that will enable Intel-based Macintosh systems to run Windows XP may deter developers from creating software applications for Mac OS X if such applications are available for the Windows platform. Moreover, there can be no assurance software developers will continue to develop software for Mac OS X on a timely basis or at all. In June 2005, the Company announced its plan to begin using Intel microprocessors in its computers. During 2006, the Company introduced new Intel-based models of the MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac, and Mac mini computers. The Company’s transition to Intel microprocessors for Macintosh systems was completed in August 2006, and its transition for Xserve was completed in November 2006. The Company depends on third-party software developers to timely develop current and future applications that run on Intel microprocessors. Universal versions of Microsoft Office and Adobe’s Creative Suite applications are not currently available. The lack of applications that run on Intel-based Macintosh systems, including Microsoft Office and Adobe Creative Suite, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial position. In addition, past and future development by the Company of its own software applications and solutions may negatively impact the decision of software developers, such as Microsoft and Adobe, to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive software for the Company’s products. The Company currently markets and sells a variety of software applications for use by professionals, consumers, and education customers that could influence the decisions of third-party software developers to develop or 27 upgrade Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently marketed by the Company include software for professional film and video editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and video productions, professional music production and music post production, professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, professional digital photo editing and workflow management, consumer digital video and digital photo editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database management, word processing, and high-quality presentations. Discontinuance of third-party software products for the Macintosh platform could have an adverse effect on the Company’s net sales and results of operations. The Company’s business relies on access to patents and intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company’s future results could be adversely affected if it is alleged or found to have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others. Many of the Company’s products are designed to include intellectual property obtained from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. However, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available or available on acceptable terms. Because of technological changes in the computer and consumer electronics industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible certain components of the Company’s products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents of others. The Company has from time to time been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time-consuming, result in significant expenses, and cause the diversion of management and technical personnel. Several pending claims are in various stages of evaluation. The Company may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements in certain of these cases. However, no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. In the event there is a temporary or permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain of its products or a successful claim of infringement against the Company requiring it to pay royalties to a third-party, the Company’s future operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Information regarding certain claims and litigation involving the Company related to alleged patent infringement and other matters is set forth in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. In the opinion of management, the Company does not have a potential liability for damages or royalties from any current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others that would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. However, the results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail to prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others described in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K or should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the operating results of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s retail initiative has required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Through September 30, 2006, the Company had opened 165 retail stores. The Company’s retail initiative has required substantial investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms ranging from 5 to 20 years, the majority of which are for 10 years. The Company could incur substantial costs should it choose to terminate these commitments or close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, a relatively high proportion of the Retail segment’s costs are fixed because of personnel costs, 28 depreciation of store construction costs, and lease expense. As a result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment experience a significant decline in sales for any reason. Certain of the Company’s stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues that function as vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand awareness. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment in equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company’s more typical retail stores. The Company has opened eight such stores through September 2006. Because of their location and size, these high-profile stores also require the Company to enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared to those required for its more typical stores. Current leases on such locations have terms ranging from 10 to 14 years with total remaining commitments per location ranging from $4 million to $33 million. Closure or poor performance of one of these high-profile stores could have a significant negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Many of the general risks and uncertainties the Company faces could also have an adverse impact on its Retail segment. Also, many factors unique to retail operations present risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, that could adversely affect the Retail segment’s future results, cause its actual results to differ from those currently expected, and/or have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique to retail operations that could have an adverse impact on the Retail segment include, among other things, macro-economic factors that have a negative impact on general retail activity; inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation; inability to sell third-party hardware and software products at adequate margins; failure to manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack of experience in managing retail operations outside the U.S.; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value of Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. The Company has and may in the future invest in new business strategies or engage in acquisitions that complement the Company’s strategic direction and product roadmap. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management’s attention away from current business operations; insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy; and unidentified issues not discovered in the Company’s due diligence process. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition. Declines in the sales of the Company’s professional products, software, accessories, or service and support contracts, or increases in sales of consumer products, including iPods, may negatively impact the Company’s gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company’s professional products, including MacBook Pro and Mac Pro systems, software, accessories, and service and support contracts, generally have higher gross margins than the Company’s consumer products, including the iMac, Mac mini, MacBook, iPod, and content from the iTunes Store. A shift in sales mix away from higher margin professional products towards lower margin consumer products could adversely affect the Company’s future gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company’s traditional professional customers may choose to buy consumer products, specifically the iMac and MacBook, instead of professional products. Professional users may choose to buy the iMac due to its relative price performance and unique design featuring a flat panel screen. Professional users may also choose to purchase MacBooks instead of the Company’s professional-oriented portable products due to their price performance and screen size. Additionally, significant future growth in iPod sales without 29 corresponding growth in higher margin product sales could also reduce gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons. The Company’s profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company’s direct sales, primarily through its retail and online stores, generally have higher associated profitability than its indirect sales. As a result, the Company’s gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability may be adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, or new product announcements, including the transition to Intel-based Macintosh computers. In addition, the Company generally sells more product during the third month of each quarter than it does during either of the first two months, a pattern typical in the personal computer and consumer electronics industries. This sales pattern can produce pressure on the Company’s internal infrastructure during the third month of a quarter and may adversely impact the Company’s ability to predict its financial results accurately. Furthermore, the Company has typically experienced greater net sales in the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared to other quarters in the fiscal year due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and the beginning of the school year. Developments late in a quarter, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Company’s key logistics, components suppliers, or manufacturing partners, could have significant adverse impacts on the Company and its results of operations and financial condition. The Company has higher research and development and selling, general and administrative costs, as a percentage of revenue, than many of its competitors. The Company’s ability to compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins and revenue growth is heavily dependent upon its ability to ensure a continuing and timely flow of innovative and competitive products and technologies to the marketplace. As a result, the Company generally incurs higher research and development costs as a percentage of revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based on other operating systems. Many of these competitors seek to compete aggressively on price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, as a result of the expansion of the Company’s Retail segment and costs associated with marketing the Company’s brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs higher selling costs as a percentage of revenue than many of its competitors. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive gross margins, its results of operations may be materially adversely affected by its operating cost structure. The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly to certain educational institutions and commercial customers. A substantial majority of the Company’s outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables from certain of its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale by the Company of raw material components to these manufacturing vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has entered into long-term supply agreements to secure supply of NAND flash-memory and has prepaid a total of $1.25 billion under these agreements. While the Company has procedures in place to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will be effective in limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, if the global economy or regional economies deteriorate, the Company would be more likely to incur a material loss or losses as a result of the weakening financial condition of one or more of its customers or manufacturing vendors. 30 The Company’s success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. Much of the future success of the Company depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members of its executive team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where the majority of the Company’s key employees are located. The Company has relied on its ability to grant stock options as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock options have resulted in increased stock-based compensation expense, which may cause the Company to reduce the amount of stock-based awards issued to employees. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. The Company is subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance. For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because the Company retains some portion of its insurable risks, and in some cases self insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Failure of information technology systems and breaches in the security of data upon which the Company relies could adversely affect the Company’s future operating results. Information technology system failures and breaches of data security could disrupt the Company’s ability to function in the normal course of business by potentially causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, or resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or Company information. Management has taken steps to address these concerns for its own systems by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures. However, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach of the Company or a third-party vendor will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to the risks of international operations. A large portion of the Company’s revenue is derived from its international operations. As a result, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company’s primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts of Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses in foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the Company’s products and the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency denominated sales. Conversely, a strengthening in these and other foreign currencies can cause the Company to modify international pricing and affect the value of the Company’s foreign denominated sales, and in some cases, may also increase the cost to the Company of some product components. Margins on sales of the Company’s products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward and option positions have been utilized by the Company to hedge exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates. 31 Further information related to the Company’s global market risks may be found in Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K under the subheading “Foreign Currency Risk” and may be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K at Notes 1 and 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company is subject to risks associated with environmental regulations. Production and marketing of products in certain states and countries may subject the Company to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the requirement to provide customers the ability to return product at the end of its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed in several jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including various European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the U.S. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects in the future based on the nature of its operations and the thrust of such laws, there is no assurance such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations. Changes in accounting rules could affect the Company’s future operating results. Financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. A change from current accounting standards could have a significant effect on the Company’s results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued new guidance that addresses the accounting for share-based payments, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS No. 123R”), Share-Based Payment, which the Company adopted in 2006. In 2006, stock-based compensation expense reduced diluted earnings per common share by approximately $0.14. Although the adoption of SFAS No. 123R is expected to continue to have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations, future changes to various assumptions used to determine the fair-value of awards issued or the amount and type of equity awards granted create uncertainty as to the amount of future stock-based compensation expense. Changes in the Company’s tax rates could affect its future results. The Company’s future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, the Company is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s stock price may be volatile. The Company’s stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and as a result of announcements by the Company and its competitors. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. If the Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline. In addition, increases in the Company’s stock price may result in greater dilution of earnings per share. 32 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 