ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in BSD or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Although the Company has attempted to list the factors of which it is currently aware that may have an impact on its operations, there may be other factors of which the Company is currently unaware or to which it does not assign sufficient significance, and the following list should not be considered comprehensive. We have a history of significant operating losses and such losses may continue in the future. Since our inception in 1978, our expenses have substantially exceeded our revenue, resulting in continuing losses and an accumulated deficit of $52,771,770 at August 31, 2014. We reported net losses of $7,142,832, $8,251,691 and $7,960,660 in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We may continue to incur operating losses in the future as we continue to incur costs to develop our products, protect our intellectual property and expand our sales and marketing activities. To become profitable we will need to increase significantly the revenues we receive from sales of our MicroThermX line of products and our hyperthermia systems to improve our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have been unable to do this in the past and we may be unable to do so in the future, and therefore may never achieve profitability. We have obtained FDA 510(k) clearance to market our MicroThermX Microwave Ablation System, and have experienced early success in sales of the MicroThermX family of products. We cannot be assured that our efforts to commercialize the MicroThermX will be successful or that we will attain expected revenue levels. In August 2010, the FDA granted us a 510(k) clearance to market our MicroThermX Microwave Ablation System for ablation of soft tissue, authorizing the commercial sale of the MicroThermX in the United States. We have experienced significant growth in revenues from our MicroThermX family of products. Our products represent a major part of our business plan moving forward and introduce into our product line an innovative, high-end disposable that is used in each ablation treatment and which we believe will provide a significant ongoing revenue stream. Political and economic uncertainty in the healthcare industry due to government healthcare reform and the continuing worldwide economic turndown has made hospital acquisitions of capital equipment difficult at all levels. With hospital capital budgeting, committee review and other approvals, the sales cycle for the MicroThermX may extend to well over six months. To accelerate revenues from the MicroThermX line of products, we have a program that allows hospitals to purchase disposable SynchroWave antennas and pay a fee-per-use rental for the treatment of patients using the MicroThermX We expanded the equipment rental program throughout the U.S., contracting with specialty medical products distributors and hiring direct sales representatives in key major metropolitan areas who provide “personal service” to new users of the microwave ablation technique. These are experienced interventional sales representatives with established contacts and relationships in the field of interventional oncology. We have experienced early success with these sales programs and increasing revenues; however, we cannot be assured that we will attain expected revenue levels from the MicroThermX line of products. If these efforts are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. 18 Our profitability will be driven in large part by international sales of our MicroThermX family of products; therefore, we are dependent on our ability to successfully establish our international sales distribution channels. With our United States direct sales network in place for our MicroThermX family of products, we are placing significant emphasis on Europe and other international markets. International sales of our MicroThermX family of products will depend on our ability to successfully establish sales distribution channels in Europe and other international markets. We believe that the distribution agreement with Terumo Europe NV will drive market adoption of the MicroThermX product line. However, this agreement in in its early stages and the ultimate success of the Terumo relationship is yet to be determined. We also expect to reach distribution agreements with additional international distribution firms. If these efforts are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. Our current strategy includes the possibility of entering into additional collaborative arrangements with third parties to expand and improve the commercialization of all our products; including our hyperthermia systems; however, there can be no assurance that such strategic alternatives will result in any successful agreements or transactions. As demonstrated by our April 2013 signing of the master distribution agreement with Terumo Europe NV for our MicroThermX line of products, our current strategy includes the possibility of entering into additional collaborative arrangements with third parties to expand and improve the commercialization of all our products including our hyperthermia systems. Consistent with this strategy we have a goal to seek out, identify opportunities and, if possible, secure a transaction or transaction(s) relating to our hyperthermia business including, but not limited to, partnering or other collaborative agreements, a sale of assets and/or other strategic arrangements. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any agreements or transactions, or that, if completed, any agreements or transactions will be successful or on attractive terms. Our revenues can fluctuate significantly from period to period because historically our sales have been largely based upon a relatively small number of systems, the sales price of each being substantial enough to greatly impact revenue levels in the periods in which they occur. Our revenues can fluctuate significantly from period to period because historically our sales have been based upon a relatively small number of hyperthermia systems, the sales price of each being substantial enough to greatly impact revenue levels in the periods in which they occur. We have experienced increasing revenues from our MicroThermX line of products, but have been unable to sustain or grow revenues from our hyperthermia systems. Sales of a few systems, particularly BSD-2000/3D/MR systems, can cause a large change in our revenues from period to period and the sales cycle for our hyperthermia systems generally extends over multiple financial reporting periods. In addition, differences in the configuration of the systems sold, pricing, and other factors can result in significant differences in the sales price per system and in the total revenues reported in a given period. As a result, there may be quarterly financial reporting periods where we may report no or minimal revenues from the sale of hyperthermia systems. Adverse worldwide economic conditions have made it difficult for our customers to obtain approval for the purchase of and funding for our hyperthermia systems. Our hyperthermia cancer treatment systems represent capital equipment purchases for our customers. Adverse worldwide economic conditions have made it difficult for our customers to obtain approval for the purchase of and funding for our systems. This has contributed to a lack of growth in the worldwide sales of our hyperthermia systems and to a slower than anticipated introduction into the market place of our MicroThermX line of products. To the extent that adverse economic conditions continue, we believe our sales of cancer treatment systems will continue to be negatively impacted. At times, a significant portion of our revenues from sales of our hyperthermia products have been from related parties. We have experienced declining revenues of hyperthermia products from related parties. These related party transactions result from the sale of hyperthermia systems and related component parts and services to entities controlled by a significant shareholder and member of our Board of Directors, and represent approximately 8%, 3% and 16% of total sales for the years ended August 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. With the new RoHS regulatory mandate, we are prohibited from selling new hyperthermia systems in the EU. Our MicroThermX products are RoHS compliant. 19 To the extent that we are unable to maintain or increase the level of our revenues derived from related parties, the results of our operations could be negatively impacted. A significant concentration of our revenues are from foreign countries. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from sales to foreign customers. Export sales were $3,381,563, $1,470,619 and $694,629 in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. During fiscal year 2014, export sales to Taiwan and Belgium combined were approximately 46% of total sales. During fiscal years 2013 and 2012, export sales to Belgium and Germany were approximately 30% and 16% of total sales, respectively. To the extent that we are unable to maintain or increase the level of our revenues derived from foreign customers, the results of our operations could be negatively impacted. Sales of our products could be significantly reduced if government, private health insurers and other third-party payors do not provide sufficient coverage or reimbursement. Our success in selling our products will depend in large part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of our products and related treatments are available from government health agencies, private health insurers and other third-party payers. Despite the existence of general reimbursement policies, local medical review policies may differ for public and private insurance payers, which may cause payment to be refused for some hyperthermia treatments. Private payers also may refuse to pay for hyperthermia treatments. Medical reimbursement rates are unpredictable and we cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by future legislative and regulatory developments. Future health care legislation or regulation may limit our business or impose additional delays and costs on our business and third-party reimbursement may not be adequate to cover our costs associated with producing and selling our products. Our hyperthermia therapy products may not achieve market acceptance, which could limit our future revenue and ability to achieve profitability. To date, hyperthermia therapy has not gained wide acceptance by cancer-treating physicians. We believe this is due in part to the lingering impression created by the inability of early hyperthermia therapy technologies to focus and control heat directed at specific tissue locations as well as inaccurate conclusions drawn in early scientific studies that hyperthermia was only marginally effective. Additionally, market acceptance depends upon physicians and hospitals obtaining adequate reimbursement rates from third-party payors to make our products commercially viable, and we believe that reimbursement rates have not been adequate to stimulate strong interest in adopting hyperthermia as a new cancer therapy. If our sales and marketing efforts to promote hyperthermia therapy acceptance in the medical community fail, or our efforts to improve third-party reimbursement rates for hyperthermia therapy are not successful, then our future revenue from sales of our products may be limited, and we may never be able to obtain profitable recurring operations. Cancer therapy is subject to rapid technological change and therapies that are more effective than ours could render our technology obsolete. The treatment of cancer is currently subject to extensive research and development. Many cancer therapies are being researched and our products may be rendered obsolete by existing therapies and as a result of therapy innovations by others. If our products are rendered obsolete, our revenue will decline, we may never achieve profitability, and we may not be able to continue in business. Additionally, other companies, particularly established companies that currently manufacture and sell other cancer therapy systems, could potentially become competitors (in that they are also engaged in the cancer treatment business), and they have significantly greater resources than we do. 20 Continued sales of our hyperthermia systems in Asia depend on the effectiveness of our Asian distributors; however, we have had failures with the productivity of new channels of distribution in the past. We believe that the success of our efforts to increase sales of our hyperthermia systems in the future depends on our ability to successfully utilize and support our sales distribution channels in Asia. Historically, we have had little success in establishing new sales channels, and recruiting and training new distributors can require considerable time and expense. As we pursue our hyperthermia products marketing plan, there can be no assurance that our channels of distribution will be reliable, or will to meet our plan for sales in Asia. In addition, we believe that our channels of distribution for hyperthermia products that have been successful in the past will not be successful in the future. At times we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from sales in Europe and in China. Sales in Europe were made through our distributor Dr. Sennewald Medizintechnik GmbH, which also purchases equipment components and parts from us; however, we have recently experienced declining hyperthermia revenues from this source and will be unable to market hyperthermia systems in the EU following July 22, 2014, due to new RoHS regulations. Medizintechnik is controlled by Dr. Sennewald, one of our directors. Our Chinese distributor has recently received regulatory approval in China in an ongoing renewal application, and we have also experienced declining levels of sales in China. We may face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. We anticipate that the current and future administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. Public debate of these issues will likely continue in the future. The uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation may have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. At this time, we cannot predict whether healthcare reform proposals will be successfully implemented or adopted or what impact they may have on our business. We are subject to government regulations that can delay our ability to sell our products and cause us to incur substantial expenses. Our research and development efforts, pre-clinical tests and clinical trials, and the manufacturing, marketing, distribution and labeling of our products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable international agencies. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals throughout the world is lengthy and expensive and our financial resources are limited. The FDA and other comparable agencies outside the U.S. are currently implementing and considering a number of reforms in its regulatory processes, which may make the approval process longer and more cumbersome for medical devices and increase the costs required to maintain those approvals. Obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other comparable agencies outside the U.S. is necessary for us to commercially market our systems in the United States. Obtaining and maintaining approvals is a lengthy and expensive process. We may not be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, if at all, and such failure could harm our business prospects substantially. 21 After a product is approved for commercial distribution by the FDA and other comparable agencies outside the U.S., we have ongoing responsibilities under applicable regulations, which may include regulation of our manufacturing facilities and processes, labeling and record-keeping, and reporting of adverse experiences and other information. Failure to comply with these ongoing requirements could result in problems with our approvals outside the U.S., and in the U.S. could result in the FDA imposing operating restrictions on us, enjoining or restraining certain violations, or imposing civil or criminal penalties on us. All of these laws are subject to evolving interpretations. If the federal government were to conclude that we are not in compliance with any of these health care laws, we could be subject to substantial criminal and civil penalties, and could be excluded from participation as a supplier to beneficiaries in federal health care programs. We are also subject to ongoing compliance and review requirements with our ISO-13485 and CE Mark certifications. The European Commission (“EC”), the executive body of the EU, drafts regulations that are then accepted or rejected by the European Council. Once a regulation has been accepted, it becomes a directive. We must remain current with both new directives and amendments to existing directives. The EC has recently implemented a number of significant changes in the regulations that govern medical devices, and the European Council has approved these changes. These changes make obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals more expensive and time consuming. The EC also recommended additional significant changes in the regulations that govern medical devices, which could increase the regulatory costs and risk for marketing products in the EU. Failure to comply with these ongoing requirements could result in marketing restrictions on us. On January 2, 2013, following a protracted period of public comment, the EU issued RoHS, which restricts the use of certain hazardous substances used in electrical equipment and mandated all medical devices sold in the EU meet RoHS compliance requirements on or before July 22, 2014. Medical devices subject to RoHS must have technical testing and accompanying documents, a declaration of conformity and CE marking affixed to the product to be deemed compliant. Noncompliant medical devices will be prohibited for sale in the EU community after July 22, 2014. The Company’s MicroThermX products are in compliance with RoHS requirements. However the Company’s hyperthermia products contain some of the substances defined as hazardous by RoHS standards. This presents a challenge for us inasmuch as there is currently no RoHS information available from vendors of the non-compliant parts with no alternative replacement parts available or readily identifiable. Hence, in order to continue to sell its Hyperthermia Systems within the EU after July 22, 2014 the Company believes it will need to make significant changes in the component parts used in its hyperthermia products it offers for sale in the EU. The Company does not currently intend to make the significant and costly changes to component parts used in its hyperthermia products that would be necessary to become RoHS compliant so its hyperthermia systems can be available for sale in the EU. Because of this, our sales of new hyperthermia systems in the EU will cease, which will impact our results from operations. U.S. Regulatory – FDA If we fail to maintain regulatory approvals and clearances, or are unable to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or product enhancements, our ability to commercially distribute and market these products could suffer. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or is the subject of an approved PMA unless the device is specifically exempt from those requirements. In addition, certain devices can be distributed under an HDE, rather than a PMA. 22 The FDA will clear marketing of a lower risk medical device through the 510(k) process if the manufacturer demonstrates that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. High risk devices deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable devices, or devices not deemed substantially equivalent to a previously cleared device, require the approval of a PMA. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device for its intended use. In order for a device to be eligible for an HDE, it must be intended for use in a qualifying target patient population of less than 4,000 patients per year for which there is no other comparable device available to treat the condition. This qualifying target patient population must be approved by the FDA. The FDA’s approval of an HDE to treat that qualifying patient population then requires demonstration that the device is safe for its intended application, that it is potentially effective, and that the probable benefits outweigh the associated risks, which is a lower standard than is applied to a PMA. Within the regulations for an HDE, if a device becomes available through the PMA process that addresses the same patient population as the HDE device, the HDE device may need to be withdrawn from the U.S. market. An approved HDE authorizes sales of the device to any hospital after Institutional Review Board review and approval by the hospital. Our currently commercialized BSD-200 and MicroThermX Microwave Ablation System have been cleared through the 510(k) process. Our BSD-500 is the subject of an approved PMA application. Our BSD-2000 System is the subject of an approved HDE. Our HDE for the BSD-2000 could be withdrawn by FDA if the target patient population exceeds 4000 patients in a given year or if a competitive device receives PMA approval that addresses the same patient population as the BSD-2000. Our failure to comply with U.S. federal, state and foreign governmental regulations could lead to the issuance of warning letters or untitled letters, the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearance or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. In the most extreme cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facility are possible. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory clearances or approvals or may require us to recall or cease marketing our products until clearances or approvals are obtained. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory approvals or clearances, including 510(k) clearances, premarket approvals, or HDE approvals, or require us to recall or cease marketing the modified devices until these clearances or approvals are obtained. The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new approval, supplement or clearance. A manufacturer may determine that a modification could not significantly affect safety or efficacy and does not represent a major change in its intended use, so that no new 510(k) clearance is necessary. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer's decision and may disagree. The FDA may also on its own initiative determine that a new clearance or approval is required. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing our products as modified, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions. If a manufacturer determines that a modification to an FDA-cleared device could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, then the manufacturer must file for a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a premarket approval application. For PMA approved products, any change that affects the safety or effectiveness of the device requires the approval of PMA Supplement. Depending on the type of change, there are different PMA Supplements ranging from 30-Day Notices to full 180-Day Supplements. Where we determine that modifications to our products require a new 510(k) clearance, premarket approval, or HDE application, we may not be able to obtain those additional clearances or approvals for the modifications or additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. Obtaining clearances and approvals can be a time consuming process, and delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. 23 There is no guarantee that the FDA will grant 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of our future products and failure to obtain necessary clearances or approvals for our future products would adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Some of our new products may require FDA clearance of a 510(k). Other products may require the approval of a PMA. In addition some of our new products may require clinical trials to support regulatory approval and we may not successfully complete these clinical trials. The FDA may not approve or clear these products for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. Indeed, the FDA may refuse our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products. Failure to receive clearance or approval for our new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. Clinical trials necessary to support a PMA application will be expensive and will require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Delays or failures in our clinical trials will prevent us from commercializing any modified or new products and will adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Initiating and completing clinical trials necessary to support a future PMA application or to obtain additional safety and efficacy data beyond that typically required for a 510(k) clearance will be time consuming and expensive and the outcome uncertain. Moreover, the results of early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and any product we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials. Clinical trials conducted in the United States, generally require an IDE approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients and study sites, unless the product is deemed a nonsignificant risk device eligible for more abbreviated IDE requirements. Clinical trials are subject to extensive monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Clinical trials must be conducted under the oversight of an IRB for the relevant clinical trial sites and must comply with FDA regulations, including but not limited to those relating to good clinical practices. To conduct a clinical trial, we also are required to obtain the patients’ informed consent that complies with FDA requirements, state and federal privacy regulations and human subject protection regulations. Conducting successful clinical studies will require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators, support staff, and proximity of patients to clinical sites and able to comply with the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or follow-up to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products or if they determine that the treatments received under the trial protocols are not attractive or involve unacceptable risks or discomforts. Patients may also not participate in our clinical trials if they choose to participate in contemporaneous clinical trials of competitive products. In addition, patients participating in clinical trials may die before completion of the trial or suffer adverse medical events unrelated to investigational products. Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols to demonstrate safety and efficacy are required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance and approval. Further, the FDA may require us to submit data on a greater number of patients than we originally anticipated and/or for a longer follow-up period or change the data collection requirements or data analysis applicable to our clinical trials. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the approval and attempted commercialization of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial. In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in our clinical trials, FDA may not consider our data adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Such increased costs and delays or failures could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. 24 BSD is currently sponsoring an IDE-approved clinical study of the BSD-2000 Hyperthermia System, “Hyperthermia Combined with Radiotherapy for the Treatment of Locally Advanced, Persistent, or Recurrent Deep Tumors of the Pelvis; i.e., Cervical, Prostate, Rectal, and Bladder.” The Phase II study is designed to enroll subjects who have advanced, persistent, or recurrent deep tumors of the pelvis and thus have already failed other standard therapy or would not be considered candidates for other standard therapy. Our facility and our clinical investigational sites operate under procedures that govern the conduct and management of FDA-regulated clinical studies under 21 CFR Parts 50 and 812, and Good Clinical Practices. FDA may conduct Bioresearch Monitoring (BIMO) inspections of us and/or our clinical sites to assess compliance with 21 CFR Parts 50 and 812, our procedures, and the clinical protocol. If the FDA were to find that we or our clinical investigators are not operating in compliance with applicable regulations, we could be subject to the above FDA enforcement action as well as refusal to accept all or part of our data in support our 510(k) or PMA and/or we may need to conduct additional studies. We, the FDA or the IRB could suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. Additionally, we may decide at any time, for business or other reasons, to terminate a study. Even if a trial is completed, the results of clinical testing may not adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device or may otherwise not be sufficient to obtain FDA clearance or approval to market the product in the United States. Following completion of a study, we would need to collect, analyze and present the data in an appropriate submission to the FDA, either a 510(k) premarket notification or a PMA. Even if a study is completed and submitted to the FDA, the results of our clinical testing may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device, or may be equivocal or otherwise not be sufficient to obtain approval of our product. If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with pre-clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our products. We do not have the ability to independently conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials for our products and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct such trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, if at all, and our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected. Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product candidate claims or may result in the discovery of adverse side effects. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims or that the FDA or foreign authorities will agree with our conclusions regarding them. Success in pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the later trials will replicate the results of prior trials and pre-clinical studies. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, which could cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of others. Any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the filing of our product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenues. It is also possible that patients enrolled in clinical trials will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product candidate’s profile. 25 With respect to our marketed products, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing FDA or other foreign regulatory authority requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain clearance or approval, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA. In particular, we and our suppliers are required to comply with FDA’s Quality System Regulations or QSR for the manufacture of our products and other regulations which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain clearance or approval. The FDA enforces the QSR and other regulations through periodic inspections. Our facility in Salt Lake City, Utah, is regularly inspected by the FDA. The most recent FDA inspection was conducted December 17–19, 2012. There were no deficiencies noted by the FDA as a result of this inspection and no Form 483 was issued. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in, among other things, any of the following enforcement actions: · untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; · unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions · customer notifications for repair, replacement, refunds; · recall, detention or seizure of our products; · operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or modified products; · operating restrictions; · withdrawing 510(k) clearances or HDE or PMA approvals that have already been granted; · refusal to grant export approval for our products; or · criminal prosecution. If any of these actions were to occur it would harm our reputation and cause our product sales and profitability to suffer and may prevent us from generating revenue. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements which could result in our failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all. Even if regulatory clearance or approval of a product is granted, such clearance or approval may be subject to limitations on the intended uses for which the product may be marketed and reduce our potential to successfully commercialize the product and generate revenue from the product. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, labeling, training or other marketing or educational activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we cease or modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our training or other promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. 26 In addition, we may be required to conduct costly post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or effectiveness of our products, and we must comply with medical device reporting requirements, including the reporting of adverse events and malfunctions related to our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as QSR, may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. For most products that receive PMA or HDE approval, FDA imposes post-market study requirements as a condition of approval. As a condition of our HDE approval for the BSD-2000 Hyperthermia System, the FDA required BSD to conduct a post-market registry study, “Deep Hyperthermia and Radiation in the Treatment of Cervical Cancer Patients.” Due to challenges enrolling patients and sites in a small population with this rare disease, no patients were enrolled in this initial post-approval registry study. Because of these challenges, BSD initiated collaborative discussions with FDA regarding the structure of the study. As a result, the initial post-market study structure has been revised, and we are in current discussions with our clinical sites regarding participation in the revised study. BSD is still experiencing challenges in enrolling patients and sites and plans to initiate additional discussions with FDA regarding how best to address these challenges. The status of BSD's post-approval study is listed as "progress inadequate" on the FDA's website. We plan to initiate additional discussions with the FDA regarding how best to address these challenges, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully meet our Company's ongoing responsibilities for the post-approval study mandated by the FDA as part of our HDE approval. We have submitted all periodic updates to FDA as required and in a timely manner. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification of the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which require reports to be submitted to the FDA and can result in voluntary corrective actions or FDA enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of our similar devices were to recur. If we fail to report these events to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, FDA could take enforcement action against us. Any such adverse event involving our products also could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. 27 We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or "off-label" uses. Our promotional materials and training methods for physicians must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations. We believe that the specific surgical procedures for which our 510(k)-cleared products are marketed fall within the scope of the surgical applications that have been cleared by the FDA and that our PMA approved products are marketed in accordance with their approved labeling. However, the FDA could disagree and require us to stop promoting our products for those specific procedures until we obtain FDA clearance or approval for them. In addition, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Legislative or Regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a medical device. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. For example, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions that may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. For example, in 2011, the FDA announced a Plan of Action to modernize and improve the FDA’s premarket review of medical devices, and has implemented, and continues to implement, reforms intended to streamline the premarket review process. In addition, as part of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012, Congress enacted several reforms entitled the Medical Device Regulatory Improvements and additional miscellaneous provisions which will further affect medical device regulation both pre- and post-approval. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new products, or to produce, market and distribute existing products. We depend on adequate protection of our patent and other intellectual property rights to stay competitive. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. Our success will substantially depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and maintain rights granted to us through license agreements. Our intellectual property rights may only afford us limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or remedies to gain or keep any advantages we may have over our competitors, which could reduce our ability to be competitive and generate sales and profitability. In the past, we have participated in substantial litigation regarding our patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. We have previously filed lawsuits for patent infringement against three of our competitors and subsequently settled all three of those lawsuits. Additional litigation against other parties may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patents and trade secrets, and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. This litigation may require more financial resources than are available to us. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully protect our rights in litigation. Failure to successfully protect our rights in litigation could reduce our ability to be competitive and generate sales and profitability. 28 A product liability settlement could exceed our ability to pay. The manufacturing and marketing of medical devices involves an inherent risk of product liability. We presently carry product liability insurance with coverage limits of $5 million. Our product liability insurance does not cover intended injury, injury or damage resulting from the intoxication of any person, payment of workers’ compensation benefits, injury of our own employee, injury or damage due to war, damage to property that we own, damage to our work, loss of use of property, patent infringements, pollution claims, interest payments, depreciation of property, or injury or damage resulting from asbestos inhalation. We are responsible to pay the first $10,000 resulting from any claim up to a maximum of $50,000 in one year. We cannot assure that our product liability insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims that might be made against us. If we were to be subject to a claim in excess of our coverage or to a claim not covered by our insurance and the claim succeeded, we would be required to pay the claim from our limited resources, which would reduce our limited capital resources and liquidity and reduce capital we could otherwise use to obtain approvals for and market our products. In addition, liability or alleged liability could harm our business by diverting the attention and resources of our management and by damaging our reputation. We are dependent upon key personnel, some of whom would be difficult to replace. Our success will be largely dependent upon the efforts of Clinton E. Carnell Jr, our Chief Executive Officer, Sam Maravich, Jr., our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Dixie Toolson Sells, our Vice President of Regulatory Affairs, William S. Barth, our Chief Financial Officer, and other key employees. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of these employees. Our future success also will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel could make it more difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives such as the sale of our products and the introduction of new products. The market for our stock is limited and our stock price may be volatile. The market for our common stock has been limited due to low trading volume and the small number of brokerage firms acting as market makers. Because of the limitations of our market and volatility of the market price of our stock, investors may face difficulties in selling shares at attractive prices when they want to. The average daily trading volume for our stock has varied significantly from week to week and from month to month, and the trading volume often varies widely from day to day. The following factors could impact the market for our stock and cause further volatility in our stock price: · announcements of new technological innovations; · FDA and other regulatory developments and changes; · changes in third-party reimbursements; · developments concerning proprietary rights; · third parties receiving FDA approval for competing products; and · market conditions generally for medical and technology stocks. 29 If the closing bid price of our stock continues to remain below $1.00 per share, our common stock may be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. Shares of our common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market (“Nasdaq”) under the symbol “BSDM”. We are required to comply with Nasdaq’s listing standards in order to maintain the listing of our common stock on the exchange. Nasdaq has the authority pursuant to Nasdaq Rule 5550(a)(2) to delist our common stock if, during any period of 30 consecutive trading days, the closing bid price falls below a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. On August 8, 2014, we received a letter from the staff of Nasdaq notifying us that, for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price for the Company’s common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on Nasdaq under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have been provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until February 4, 2015, to regain compliance. If at any time before February 4, 2015, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days, the Staff will provide us with written confirmation of compliance and the matter will be closed. We are actively monitoring the bid price of our common stock and will consider any and all options available to us to achieve compliance. To the extent that we are unable to resolve the listing deficiency, there is a risk that our common stock may be delisted from Nasdaq and would likely trade only on the over-the-counter market (the “OTC”). If our common stock were to trade on the OTC, selling our common stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common stock is delisted, broker-dealers transacting in our common stock would be subject to certain additional regulatory burdens, which may discourage them from effecting transactions in our common stock, thus further limiting the liquidity of our common stock and potentially resulting in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Our directors and executive officers own a substantial number of shares of our capital stock, which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our directors and executive officers own approximately 18% of our outstanding voting power. Accordingly, these stockholders, individually and as a group, may be able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes involving the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the approval of certain mergers or other similar transactions, such as a sale of substantially all of our assets. Such control by existing stockholders could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. Future sales of shares of our securities pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement may negatively affect our stock price. We currently have the ability to offer and sell up to $50.0 million of common stock, preferred stock, warrants, senior debt, subordinated debt or units under a currently effective universal shelf registration statement. In July 2014 we completed a $5.2 million registered direct placement of our stock under our current universal shelf registration. Prior to the July 2014 offering we completed five offerings utilizing a universal shelf registration statement during calendar years 2010 and 2013. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under our current universal shelf registration statement could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have a possible negative effect on our stock price. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. We have in place several anti-takeover measures that could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. The increased difficulties faced by a third party who wishes to acquire us could adversely affect our stock price. 30 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 