Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results. There are many risks and uncertainties relating to our business; we have described some of the more important ones below. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not deem material may also become important factors that may harm our business. The success of our business could be impacted by any of these risks and uncertainties. We have a majority shareholder who controls the Board and is also a secured lender and we have entered into a merger agreement with the majority shareholder to take the Company private. Chelsey, together with its affiliates, owns approximately 69% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock and controls approximately 92% of the voting power (after giving effect to the exercise of all outstanding options and warrants to purchase Common Stock beneficially owned by Chelsey and the Series C Preferred voting rights). Chelsey has appointed all of our Board including our Chairman, and Chelsey Finance is our junior secured lender. On February 23, 2006 Chelsey offered to purchase the common stock that it did not own for $1.25 per share. As a result of Chelsey’s initial proposal, the Company, Chelsey and the Board members were sued in both Delaware Chancery Court and Superior Court of New Jersey Chancery Division. The original offer was withdrawn on May 25, 2006. Our independent Directors resigned on July 18, 2006. On November 17, 2006, Chelsey made another offer to take the Company private and our Board approved the Merger Agreement under which Chelsey will purchase the remaining Common Stock that it did not already own for $0.25 per share. The $0.25 per share price represented an approximately 50% discount from the price quoted on the Pink Sheets for our common stock on the day before we announced the execution of the Merger Agreement. The plaintiffs in the Delaware Chancery court actions have filed an amended complaint and a motion for an injunction to block the merger. We have filed a Proxy for our Annual Meeting and the first proposal to be voted on is the Merger Agreement. Because Chelsey has sufficient voting power to approve a going private transaction without the vote of our other shareholders and has indicated its intention to do so, a favorable vote on the merger is assured. Shareholders will have statutory appraisal rights under the Delaware General Corporation Law. Upon consummation of the merger, we will not be required to file periodic reports with the SEC, our common stock will no longer trade and our shareholders will no longer have the ability to participate in our future growth. Please refer to the Proxy for more information on the merger. We have no independent directors and thus lack one of the traditional procedural safeguards for the protection of the interests of minority shareholders. None of our directors are independent, although our directors are subject to the fiduciary duty owed by directors of a Delaware corporation to its minority stockholders. Each of our directors has conflicts of interest as a result of their relationship with Chelsey or their employment relationship with the Company. As a consequence, our shareholders do not have the protection afforded by independent directors which is one of the traditional procedural safeguards that protects the interests of minority stockholders. If the going private transaction does not occur, shareholders will be subject to numerous operating risks of our business. While it appears likely that the going private transaction will occur, there is the risk that it will not be consummated. One of Chelsey’s closing conditions is the resolution of the shareholder litigation and there can be no assurances that this will occur. While Chelsey may, in its discretion, waive this closing condition and take the Company private, there can be no assurances that the going private transaction will be consummated. If it does not occur, shareholders will continue as Company shareholders and be subject to the operational risks of our business, 12 the most significant of which are summarized below. There is limited liquidity in our shares of Common Stock . The AMEX halted trading in our Common Stock during the fourth quarter of 2004 and delisted it on February 16, 2005. Current trading information about our Common Stock is available on the Pink Sheets. Our common stock is highly illiquid which adversely affects its price. We have experienced several years of operating losses. We had a history of losses prior to the 2004 fiscal year and we suffered a loss of $6.2 million in fiscal 2006. As of December 30, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $492.9 million. There can be no assurance that we will be able to return to profitability or if we do, whether we will be able to sustain our profits. We are dependent on having sufficient financing to meet our requirements and our senior credit facility mature in July 2007. Our business is dependent upon our access to adequate financing from our senior lender, Wachovia and our junior lender, Chelsey Finance, so that we can support normal operations, purchase inventory, and secure letters of credit and other financial accommodations required to operate our business. While Chelsey agreed to extend the maturity date of this facility until January 2, 2008, the Wachovia facility matures on July 8, 2007 and we do not have adequate resources to pay off the facility. Accordingly, we will need to secure Wachovia’s agreement to extend the term of their facility or find a replacement credit facility or pursue some other alternative and there can be no assurances that we will be successful in this regard. Even if we secure replacement financing, it may have a higher interest rate than the Wachovia Facility or have more onerous terms in which event we could be adversely affected. We are also dependent on our vendors or suppliers providing us with trade credit. If certain trade creditors were to deny us credit or convert the Company to a cash basis or otherwise change credit terms, or require the Company to provide letters of credit or cash deposits to support its purchase of inventory, paper, printing and other items essential to its business, our costs would be increased and we might have inadequate liquidity to operate our business or operate profitably. Our Series C Preferred Stock began to accrue dividends in 2006 and is subject to mandatory redemption in 2009. Commencing January 1, 2006, we began accruing dividends on the Series C Preferred quarterly at the rate of 7.0% per annum. We must redeem the Series C Preferred, if not redeemed earlier, on January 1, 2009 for the liquidation preference and all accrued and unpaid dividends, which assuming we continue to accrue all dividends, will be approximately $72.7 million. If we do not have sufficient funds to redeem the Series C Preferred, we are, to the extent permitted under our then existing loan agreements, to sell sufficient assets to fund the redemption. There can be no assurances that we will have adequate sources of capital to redeem the Series C Preferred when it is mandatorily redeemable. The ongoing SEC inquiry may adversely affect us in the future. We restated our financial results as a result of various errors identified in 2004 which led to the SEC initiating an informal inquiry into our accounting practices. The SEC inquiry is ongoing and we cannot predict the outcome at this time. Were the SEC to convert the informal inquiry into a formal investigation, we would likely incur significant professional fees in addressing such investigation, and our relationships with our lenders, vendors, customers and other third parties could be adversely affected. Should the SEC find wrongdoing on our part, we may be subject to a censure or penalty that could adversely affect our results of operations, our relationships with our lenders, vendors, customers and other third parties, our reputation and our business in general. In light of the material weaknesses in our internal controls identified by our prior auditors there can be no assurance that other material weaknesses will not develop or be discovered in the future. Our former auditors, KPMG, identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and other matters relating to our internal controls during their audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 25, 2004. Although our current auditors have not brought to our attention any material weaknesses, there can be no assurance that additional weaknesses will not develop or be discovered in the future. Our success depends on our ability to publish the optimal number of catalogs to the correct target customer with merchandise that our target customers will purchase. Historically our catalogs have been the primary drivers of our sales. We must create, design, publish and distribute catalogs that offer and display merchandise that our customers want to purchase at prices that are attractive. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate, assess and react to the changing demands of the customer-base of our catalogs and to design and publish catalogs that appeal to our customers. If we fail to anticipate fashion trends, select the right merchandise assortment, maintain appropriate inventory levels and/or creatively present merchandise in a way that is appealing to our customer-base on a consistent basis, our sales could decline significantly. We must also accurately determine the optimal number of issues to publish for each catalog and the contents thereof and the optimal circulation for each of our catalogs to maximize sales at an appropriate cost level to achieve profitability while growing our customer base. Correctly determining the universe of catalog recipients also directly impacts our results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and offer merchandise that appeals to our customer-base or that the introduction of new merchandise categories will be successful or profitable or that we will mail the optimal number of catalogs to the appropriate target customer base. Our catalogs are in highly competitive markets. 13 Our catalogs are in highly competitive markets. Many of our competitors are considerably larger and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with them in the future. We must effectively manage our inventories and control our product fulfillment costs. We must manage our inventories to track customer preferences and demand. We order merchandise based on our best projection of consumer tastes and anticipated demand in the future, but we cannot guarantee that our projections of consumer tastes and the demand for our merchandise will be accurate. It is critical to our success that we stock our product offerings in appropriate quantities. If demand for one or more products outstrips our available supply, we may have large backorders and cancellations and lose sales. On the other hand, if one or more products do not achieve projected sales levels, we may have surplus or un-saleable inventory that would force us to take significant inventory markdowns, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins. We must also effectively manage our product fulfillment and distribution costs. During 2005, we consolidated our La Crosse distribution facility into our Roanoke facility because of capacity constraints at our LaCrosse facility and lower shipping costs available from the Roanoke facility. However since our consolidation into the Roanoke facility, we have experienced lower productivity and higher distribution costs that has negatively impacted our overall performance. We our exiting the third party business which will free up some capacity and have installed a new management team and implemented process improvements. We anticipate that our productivity will improve the second half of 2007 but there can assurances that this will in fact occur. We have experienced rising costs in paper, shipping and other expense items which has put pressure on our operating margins. Because of the competitive environment in which our catalogs compete, there can be no assurances that we will be able to lower our costs or increase our prices sufficient to cover our increased costs of doing business. We rely on third party suppliers for a majority of our merchandise. Most of our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers. Some of these products are manufactured exclusively for us using our designs. If any of these manufacturers were to stop supplying us with merchandise or go out of business, it would take several weeks to secure a new manufacturer and there could be a disruption in our supply of merchandise. If we are unable to provide our customers with continued access to popular merchandise manufactured exclusively for us, our operating results could be harmed. Because we import an increasing portion of our merchandise from overseas, we have greater exposure to the risks associated with international shipments, customs, export controls, etc. Because we source an increasing percentage of our merchandise from overseas, we will have greater inbound freight costs. As security measures around shipping ports increase, these additional costs may result in higher inbound freight costs. As we increase our overseas sourcing, we face the risk of these delays which could harm our business and results of operations. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, and customs restrictions, against items that we offer or intend to offer to our customers, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of items available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sourcing operations also may be adversely affected by political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other trade disruptions. Any disruption or delays in, or increased costs of, importing our products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success is dependent on the performance of our vendors and service providers. Our business depends on the performance of third parties, including merchandise manufacturers and foreign buying agents, telecommunications service providers, the USPS, shipping companies, printers, professionals, photographers, creative designers and models, credit card processing companies and the service bureau that maintains our customer database. Any interruptions or delays in the provision of these goods and services could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Although we believe that, in general, the goods and services we obtain from third parties could be purchased from other sources, identifying and obtaining substitute goods and services could result in delays and increased costs. If any significant merchandise vendor or buying agent were to suddenly discontinue its relationship with us, we could experience temporary delivery delays until a substitute supplier could be found. Our business is subject to a number of external costs that we are unable to control. Our business is subject to a number of external costs that we are unable to control, including labor costs, insurance costs, printing, paper and postage expenses, shipping charges associated with distributing merchandise to our customers and inventory acquisition costs, including product costs, quota and customs charges. We purchased approximately $24.9 million of paper in fiscal 2006 and an increase in the price of paper would have an adverse affect on our business. We also ship a majority of our merchandise by USPS and have experienced increases in postal rates in 2006 with another increase scheduled for May 2007 and have also seen our costs increase as a result of fuel surcharges. In 2006, one of the subcontractors utilized by our freight consolidator declared bankruptcy which increased our outbound merchandise shipping costs in 2006 and during the first quarter of 2007. Increases in these or other external costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows unless we are able to pass these increased costs along to our customers. Our management team is critical to our success. 14 Our success is dependent on the ability of our senior management to successfully manage our business and the individual catalogs. As a consequence, our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our current employment agreements with our CEO and CFO expired in May 2006 and the agreements were extended on a day-by-day-basis. Other members of our senior management team are not employed pursuant to employment agreements. Moreover, because our stock is so thinly traded and because of the likelihood that our majority stockholder would attempt to take the Company private, we have been unable to issue stock, options or other equity based compensation to attract and/or retain new senior management team members. The loss of the services of one or more of our current members of senior management, or our failure to attract talented new employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on the continued growth of Internet sales and must effectively manage our Internet spending. We derive an increasing portion of our revenue from our websites. While we continue to believe that our catalogs are the primary sales drivers of our merchandise, e-commerce is an important part of our business. Factors which could reduce the widespread use of the Internet include actual or perceived lack of privacy protection, actual or perceived lack of security of credit card information, possible disruptions or other damage to the Internet or telecommunications infrastructure, increased governmental regulation and taxation and decreased use of personal computers. Our business would be harmed by any decrease or less than anticipated growth in Internet usage. Because of the importance of the Internet to our business, we have increased on spending on Internet search. While we monitor our spending to maximize our revenues and returns, there can be no assurances that we will spend the optimal amount on Internet search. We have not fully assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we remain a public company we will need to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The SEC delayed implementation of Section 404 for companies with a market capitalization of less than $75.0 million such as the Company. Under the current rules and our current market capitalization, Section 404 would apply to our 2007 financial statements if we remain a public company. We have not begun the process of complying with Section 404 because of the likelihood that we will not remain a public company. If the going private transaction is not consummated, there can be no assurances that we would be able to comply with Section 404 on a timely basis; if we were not able to do so, we could be adversely affected. Moreover, once we start the process, there can be no assurance that management will not identify significant deficiencies that would result in one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot provide any assurance that testing of our internal controls will not uncover significant deficiencies that would result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause a default under our credit facilities, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. For those material weaknesses previously identified and those that may be identified in the future, we will adopt and implement policies and procedures to remediate such material weaknesses. Designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous process that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic environment in which we operate, and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, or to implement new or improved controls, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause a default under our credit facilities. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect management’s assessment regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 for fiscal 2007 or the auditor’s attestation reports which are required for fiscal 2008. These assessments will not be required if the going private transaction is consummated prior to the end of fiscal 2007. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We receive a material portion of our operating profits from our sale of third party membership services and we switched service providers twice during 2006. In 2006, we received approximately $10.0 million in revenues from our sale of membership programs; this revenue carries high profit margins. We replaced MemberWorks, Incorporated, our membership program provider since 2001, with Encore under a two year agreement. Under our agreement with Encore, we were paid a commission for each customer who agreed to purchase a membership program and a renewal commission for each customer who was a customer when his or her membership came up for renewal. This agreement was terminated by the mutual agreement of the parties in October 2006 after less than seven months and we began offering membership programs supplied by UMG on a wholesale basis where we buy membership kits and monthly program benefits from UMG. Under GAAP, we cannot recognize revenue from membership programs until after the expiration of the free trial period and then must amortize the membership fee over the 11 month life of the membership. As a consequence, there was a lag in our revenue recognition after we switched from Encore to UMG. There can be no assurances that our revenues and/or profits from sales of membership programs will not decrease as a result of the change to a new membership program provider and/or the change in our economic arrangement. Were this revenue stream to diminish or were we to lose it 15 entirely, or were our costs associated with membership programs to increase, our operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, our membership program revenues may be adversely affected as more of our business transitions to the Internet where customer response rates are lower than the response rates for customers who place phone orders. We derive a portion of our revenues by providing fulfillment services to third parties. We derive a portion of our revenues by providing third party fulfillment services. We are withdrawing from this business. If we are not able to increase our productivity and reduce our distribution costs to offset the lost revenues and profits from the third party fulfillment business, our results would be adversely affected. In light of these risks and uncertainties and others not mentioned above, the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report may not occur. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of the Company management as of the date of this report. The Company is not under any obligation and does not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 