Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results. There are many risks and uncertainties relating to our business; we have described some of the more important ones below. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not deem material may also become important factors that may harm our business. The success of our business could be impacted by any of these risks and uncertainties. We have a majority shareholder who controls the Board and is also a secured lender and has filed a proposal to take the Company private. Chelsey, together with its affiliates, owns approximately 69% of the Company’s issued and outstanding Common Stock (including the January 10, 2005 purchase of 3,799,735 shares) and controls approximately 91% of the voting power (after giving effect to the exercise of all outstanding options and warrants to purchase Common Stock beneficially owned by Chelsey and the Series C Preferred voting rights). Chelsey has appointed a majority of our Board of Directors including our Chairman, and Chelsey Finance is the Company’s junior secured lender. Recently, Chelsey offered to purchase the remaining Common Stock that it did not already own and take the Company private. As a result of Chelsey’s proposal, the Company, Chelsey and the Board members were sued in both Delaware Chancery Court and Superior Court of New Jersey Chancery Division. It should also be noted that Chelsey has sufficient voting power to approve extraordinary transactions such as a sale of the Company or its assets or a going private transaction without the vote of the other Company’s shareholders. In certain transactions, these shareholders would have statutory appraisal rights under the Delaware General Corporation Law. The Board of Directors has delegated to a special committee, consisting of independent directors of the Board, the authority to review, consider and negotiate the Chelsey proposal, including the authority to reject the proposal if it determines that it cannot favorably recommend the proposal to the Board. We have experienced several years of operating losses. We had a history of losses prior to the 2004 fiscal year. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $486.7 million. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an annual basis in the future. If we are unable to maintain and increase profitability our financial condition could be adversely affected. We are dependent on having sufficient financing to meet our requirements. Our business is dependent upon our access to adequate financing from our senior lender, Wachovia and our junior lender, Chelsey Finance, so that we can support normal operations, purchase inventory, and secure letters of credit and other financial accommodations required to operate our business. Our credit facilities contain financial and other covenants and we have not been in compliance with these covenants at all times. In the past Wachovia and Chelsey Finance have granted us waivers and agreed to amendments to the Wachovia and Chelsey Facilities, though there can be no assurances that they will continue to do so. Our ability to borrow is also limited by the value of our inventory which is reappraised from time to time. Were either Wachovia or Chelsey Finance to deny or curtail the Company’s access to capital, our business would be adversely affected. Both lenders have liens on our assets and were we to default, they could commence foreclosing on our assets. We are also dependent on our vendors or suppliers providing us with trade credit. If certain trade creditors were to deny us credit or convert the Company to a cash basis or otherwise change credit terms, or require the Company to provide letters of credit or cash deposits to support its purchase of inventory, paper, printing and other items essential to its business, our costs would be increased and we might have inadequate liquidity to operate our business or operate profitably. 12 The Restatement, the delay in filing financial statements and the commencement of an informal SEC inquiry have adversely affected us and may continue to do so in the future. We have restated our financial results as a result of various errors identified in 2004. This had led to our inability to file financial information for several quarters on a timely basis, the commencement of an investigation by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, the delisting of our Common Stock from the AMEX and the commencement of an informal SEC inquiry. Our former independent auditors, KPMG, were dismissed after they informed us that they needed to perform additional audit procedures on our prior period financial statements, after having audited our financial statements for over nine months. Prior to their dismissal KPMG had identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. We engaged new auditors which further delayed the filing of our financial statements. As a consequence of the foregoing, our business has been adversely affected as a result of the increased professional expenses, the diversion of senior management’s attention to resolving these matters and the damage to our Company’s reputation. There can be no assurances that the consequences of these events will not continue to adversely affect our business for the foreseeable future. The SEC inquiry is ongoing and we cannot predict the outcome at this time. Were the SEC to convert the informal inquiry into a formal investigation, we would likely incur significant professional fees in addressing such investigation, and our relationships with our lenders, vendors, customers and other third parties could be adversely affected. Should the SEC find wrongdoing on our part, we may be subject to a censure or penalty that could adversely affect our results of operations, our relationships with our lenders, vendors, customers and other third parties, our reputation and our business in general. There is limited liquidity in our shares of Common Stock. The AMEX halted trading in our Common Stock during the fourth quarter of 2004 and delisted it on February 16, 2005. Current trading information about our Common Stock is available on the Pink Sheets. There is very little liquidity in our Common Stock at this point in time which adversely affects its price. There can be no assurances that an active market in our Common Stock will develop at any time in the foreseeable future. In addition, recently Chelsey offered to purchase the remaining Common Stock that it did not already own and take the Company private. In light of the material weaknesses in our internal controls identified by our prior auditors there can be no assurance that other material weaknesses will not develop or be discovered in the future. In connection with its audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 25, 2004, material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and other matters relating to the Company’s internal controls were identified by our former auditors KPMG. Although our current auditors have not brought to our attention any material weaknesses, there can be no assurance that additional weaknesses will not develop or be discovered in the future. Our success depends on our ability to publish the optimal number of catalogs to the correct target customer with merchandise that our target customers will purchase. Historically our catalogs have been the primary drivers of our sales. We must create, design, publish and distribute catalogs that offer and display merchandise that our customers want to purchase at prices that are attractive. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate, assess and react to the changing demands of the customer-base of our catalogs and to design and publish catalogs that appeal to our customers. If we fail to anticipate fashion trends, select the right merchandise assortment, maintain appropriate inventory levels and creatively present merchandise in a way that is appealing to our customer-base on a consistent basis, our sales could decline significantly. We must also accurately determine the optimal number of issues to publish for each catalog and the contents thereof and the optimal circulation for each of our catalogs to maximize sales at an appropriate cost level to achieve profitability while growing our customer base. Correctly determining the universe of catalog recipients also directly impacts our results. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and offer merchandise that appeals to our customer-base or that the introduction of new merchandise categories will be successful or profitable or that we will mail the optimal number of catalogs to the appropriate target customer base. Our catalogs are in highly competitive markets. Our catalogs are in a highly competitive markets. Many of our competitors are considerably larger and have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with them in the future. 13 We must effectively manage our inventories and control our product fulfillment costs. We must manage our inventories to track customer preferences and demand. We order merchandise based on our best projection of consumer tastes and anticipated demand in the future, but we cannot guarantee that our projections of consumer tastes and the demand for our merchandise will be accurate. It is critical to our success that we stock our product offerings in appropriate quantities. If demand for one or more products outstrips our available supply, we may have large backorders and cancellations and lose sales. On the other hand, if one or more products do not achieve projected sales levels, we may have surplus or un-saleable inventory that would force us to take significant inventory markdowns, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins. We must also effectively manage our product fulfillment and distribution costs. During 2005, we consolidated our La Crosse distribution facility into our Roanoke facility because of capacity constraints at our LaCrosse facility and lower shipping costs available from the Roanoke facility. However since our consolidation into the Roanoke facility, we have experienced lower productivity and high employee turnover due, in part, to a tight labor market in Roanoke, increases in our own volumes and those of our 3rd party business, that has negatively impacted fulfillment costs and the Company’s overall performance. There can be no assurances that this trend will not continue. We have experienced rising costs in paper, shipping and other expense items which has put pressure on our operating margins. Because of the competitive environment in which our catalogs compete, there can be no assurances that we will be able to lower our costs or increase our prices sufficient to cover our increased costs of doing business. We may have difficulty sourcing our products, especially those sourced overseas. Most of our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers. Some of these products are manufactured exclusively for us using our designs. If any of these manufacturers were to stop supplying us with merchandise or go out of business, it would take several weeks to secure a new manufacturer and there could be a disruption in our supply of merchandise. If we are unable to provide our customers with continued access to popular merchandise manufactured exclusively for us, our operating results could be harmed. We also source many of our products overseas. While products sourced overseas typically have lower costs, our product margins may be slightly offset by an increase in inbound freight costs. As security measures around shipping ports increase, these additional costs may result in higher inbound freight costs. As we increase our overseas sourcing, we face the risk of these delays which could harm our business and results of operations. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, and customs restrictions, against items that we offer or intend to offer to our customers, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of items available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sourcing operations also may be adversely affected by political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other trade disruptions. Any disruption or delays in, or increased costs of, importing our products could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success is dependent on the performance of our vendors and service providers. Our business depends on the performance of third parties, including merchandise manufacturers and foreign buying agents, telecommunications service providers, the USPS, shipping companies, printers, professionals, photographers, creative designers and models, credit card processing companies and the service bureau that maintains our customer database. Any interruptions or delays in the provision of these goods and services could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Although we believe that, in general, the goods and services we obtain from third parties could be purchased from other sources, identifying and obtaining substitute goods and services could result in delays and increased costs. If any significant merchandise vendor or buying agent were to suddenly discontinue its relationship with us, we could experience temporary delivery delays until a substitute supplier could be found. 14 Our business is subject to a number of external costs that we are unable to control. Our business is subject to a number of external costs that we are unable to control, including labor costs, insurance costs, printing, paper and postage expenses, shipping charges associated with distributing merchandise to our customers and inventory acquisition costs, including product costs, quota and customs charges. In particular, the paper market is extremely tight at this time and we had experienced increased costs for our paper needs for 2005. We also ship a majority of our merchandise by USPS and have experienced increases in postal rates in 2006 as well as fuel surcharges from consolidators in 2005. Increases in these or other external costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows unless we are able to pass these increased costs along to our customers. Our management team is critical to our success. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Moreover, five members of our senior management team, the CEO, the CFO, the General Counsel and the presidents of two of our catalogs, have each been with the Company for less than two years. Our current employment agreements with our CEO and CFO each expire in May 2006. Our success is dependent on the ability of our senior management to successfully integrate into and manage our business and the individual catalogs. The loss of the services of one or more of our current members of senior management, or our failure to attract talented new employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on the continued growth of Internet sales. We derive an increasing portion of our revenue from our websites. While we continue to believe that our catalogs are the primary sales drivers of our merchandise, e-commerce is an important part of our business. Factors which could reduce the widespread use of the Internet include actual or perceived lack of privacy protection, actual or perceived lack of security of credit card information, possible disruptions or other damage to the Internet or telecommunications infrastructure, increased governmental regulation and taxation and decreased use of personal computers. Our business would be harmed by any decrease or less than anticipated growth in Internet usage. Our Series C Preferred Stock begins to accrue dividends in 2006 and is subject to mandatory redemption in 2009. Commencing January 1, 2006, dividends are payable quarterly on the Series C Preferred at the rate of 6.0% per annum, with the preferred dividend rate increasing by 1 1/2% per annum on each anniversary of the dividend commencement date until redeemed. At the Company’s option, in lieu of cash dividends, the Company may accrue dividends that will compound at a rate 1.0% higher than the applicable cash dividend rate. The Wachovia Loan Agreement currently prohibits the payment of cash dividends. The Series C Preferred, if not redeemed earlier, must be redeemed by the Company on January 1, 2009 for the liquidation preference and all accrued and unpaid dividends. Effective October 1, 2008 and assuming the Company has elected to accrue all dividends from and after January 1, 2006, the maximum aggregate amount of the liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series C Preferred will be approximately $72.7 million. We have not fully assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we remain a public company we will need to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The SEC delayed implementation of Section 404 for companies with a market capitalization of less than $75.0 million such as the Company. Under the current rules and the Company’s current market capitalization, Section 404 would apply to our 2007 financial statements if we remain a public company. There can be no assurance that management will not identify significant deficiencies that would result in one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot provide any assurance that testing of our internal controls will not uncover significant deficiencies that would result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause a default under the Company’s credit facilities, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 15 For those material weaknesses previously identified and those that may be identified in the future, we will adopt and implement policies and procedures to remediate such material weaknesses. Designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous process that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic environment in which we operate, and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, or to implement new or improved controls, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause a default under the Company’s credit facilities. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 in 2007. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We receive a material portion of our operating profits from our sale of third party membership services and derive a material portion of our revenues by providing fulfillment services to third parties. In 2005, we received approximately $10.7 million in revenues from our sale of Vertrue membership programs, which generates a material portion of our operating profit. Our agreement with Vertrue was replaced in March 2006 with a two year agreement with Encore. There can be no assurances that our revenues from sales of membership programs will not decrease as a result of the change to a new membership program provider. Were this revenue stream to diminish or were we to lose it entirely, our operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, our membership program revenues may be adversely affected as more of our business transitions to the Internet where customer response rates are lower than the response rates for customers who place phone orders. We also derive a material portion of our revenues by providing order processing and product fulfillment services to third parties. These revenues offset some of our fixed costs associated with operating our distribution facility and our call centers and were we to lose this revenue stream, our results would be adversely affected unless our direct marketing operations made up for the lost revenues. In light of these risks and uncertainties and others not mentioned above, the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report may not occur. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of the Company management as of the date of this report. The Company is not under any obligation and does not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 