Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," estimates" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this annual report of the Company (also referred to as we, us or our) should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks throughout this report. The statements are representative only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. All forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in our forward-looking statements. We face risks that are inherent in the businesses and the market places in which we operate. Factors that might cause our future financial performance to vary from that described in our forward-looking statements include the market, credit, operational, regulatory, strategic, liquidity, capital and economic risks, among others, as discussed in the MD&A and in other periodic reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the following discussion sets forth certain risks and uncertainties that we believe could cause actual future results to differ materially from expected results. However, other factors besides those listed below or discussed in our reports to the SEC also could adversely affect our results, and the reader should not consider any such list of factors to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. 7 Bankruptcy Related Risks Upon filing our Plan of Reorganization it must be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court and must be consummated. Our future results are dependent upon successfully filing our plan, obtaining approval, confirmation and implementation of our plan of reorganization. There can be no assurance that our plan of reorganization will be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. Currently, it is not possible to predict with certainty the length of time we will operate under the protection of Chapter 11, the outcome of the Chapter 11 proceedings in general, or the effect of the proceedings on our business or on the interests of the various creditors and stockholders. The Creditors' Committee and other parties in interest may not support our positions in the Chapter 11 proceedings. The Creditors' Committee appointed in the bankruptcy proceedings has the right to be heard on all matters that come before the Bankruptcy Court. There can be no assurance that the secured lender, the Creditors' Committee, our equity holders or other parties in interest will support our positions in the bankruptcy proceeding or the plan of reorganization once proposed, and disagreements between us and such entities could protract the bankruptcy proceedings, could negatively impact our ability to operate during bankruptcy, and could delay our emergence from bankruptcy. Our Chapter 11 proceedings may result in a negative public perception of us that may adversely affect our relationships with customers and suppliers, as well as our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we submit a plan of reorganization that is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court and consummated by us, our Chapter 11 filing and the resulting uncertainty regarding our future prospects may hinder our ongoing business activities and its ability to operate, fund and execute our business plan by (i) impairing relations with existing and potential customers; (ii) negatively impacting our ability to attract, retain and compensate key executives and associates and to retain employees generally; (iii) limiting our ability to obtain trade credit; and (iv) impairing present and future relationships with vendors and service providers. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs associated with the Chapter 11 proceedings. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs associated with the reorganization. The amount of these costs, which are being expensed as incurred, are expected to have a significant adverse affect on the results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on a number of factors. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. As a result of the bankruptcy filing and related events, there is no assurance that the carrying amounts of assets will be realized or that liabilities will be liquidated or settled for the amounts recorded. In addition, a plan of reorganization, or rejection thereof, could change the amounts reported in the financial statements. The company incurs substantial expenses to carry the Big Easy and the Royal Star in wet dock storage. As part of our plan of reorganization and/or future financial stability we must find a way to deploy these vessel asssets or sell the Big Easy in order to reduce the wet dock storage costs which are draining the company of needed cash. Company Specific Risks Access to funds from subsidiaries. The parent company is a separate and distinct legal entity from our operating and non-operating subsidiaries. We therefore depend on distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund our parent company overhead and administrative obligations. Our subsidiaries were and could in the future be subject to credit agreements that severely limited the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company and currently are limited by approvals being obtained from the Bankruptcy Court. We derive substantially all of our revenues from our offshore gaming operations of the Palm Beach Princess vessel that has substantial fixed costs. Substantially all of our revenues are currently derived from our operation of the M/V Palm Beach Princess. Many of our operating costs, including the charter fee payable to the vessels' owners, fuel costs and wages, are fixed and cannot be reduced when passenger loads decrease or when rising fuel or labor costs cannot be fully passed 8 through to customers. Passenger and gaming revenues earned from the vessel must be high enough to cover these expenses. We Charter the vessels the Palm Beach Princess and the Big Easy We charter the vessels we use in our operating business. The Amended and Restated Bareboat Charters and Option to Purchase which allows for the charter of Palm Beach Princess and Big Easy and for a option to purchase the vessels at the end of the lease expire on July 1, 2009. Currently, there are no renewal periods and if we should be delayed in making charter hire payments or payments on the PDS debt we could lose the ability to continue chartering the vessels or the option to purchase the vessels. We have agreed to issue warrants that may be exercisable at our common stock's market price on the date the warrants are issuable, and these warrants may cause severe dilution to our stockholders. In connection with our borrowing of $400,000 on November 9, 2005 we agreed to issue additional penalty warrants, exercisable for a period of three years, if the loan was not paid by January 9, 2006; we agreed to issue warrants for the purchase of 200,000 shares of common stock each month at a price per share of the lower of $2.50, on the market value on the day of issue in each month for each additional month until the loan is paid. During 2006, we have issued or reserved penalty warrants for the issuance of 2.2 million shares of common stock as a result of this borrowing at prices between $.10 and $2.50. As of our bankruptcy filing date this loan has not been paid. We face competition to our off-shore gaming operations from non-gaming activities in Florida, as well as traditional land-based casinos and other gaming activities. We currently compete with a variety of other vacation activities in and around Palm Beach, Florida, including short-term cruises, resort attractions, sporting and other recreational activities. We also expect competition in other areas surrounding Palm Beach in the future. Within sixty miles of the Port of Palm Beach, there are a number of smaller marinas that are capable of handling other coastal gaming vessels. In the future, we expect competition to increase as: o new gaming operators enter our market, o existing competitors expand their operations to the Port of Palm Beach and other ports in Florida. o gaming activities expand in existing jurisdictions, and o if gaming is legalized in new jurisdictions. In general, we compete with gaming activities including: o traditional land-based casinos, o casino gaming on Indian land, o state-sponsored lotteries, o pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and jai-alai Our operations compete with all of these forms of gaming and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in the future, as well as with other types of entertainment. Our competition may increase in the future if the State of Florida legalizes additional gaming activities. Over the past few years, there has been an attempt to legalize gaming throughout the State of Florida. It is likely that the gaming industry will continue to pursue legalization of gaming in Florida, and we believe that the legalization of gaming in Florida would have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, we are also subject to competition from other gaming establishments in other jurisdictions, including Atlantic City, New Jersey, Las Vegas, Nevada, the Bahamas, riverboat gambling on the Mississippi river and gambling in the pan handle area and Mississippi Coast. Such competition could adversely affect our ability to compete for new gaming opportunities and to maintain revenues. On March 8, 2005 the citizens of Broward County approved a referendum that amended Florida's constitution to permit slot machines at pari-mutuel facilities in Broward County. Currently there are three race tracks and one jai-alai facility in the County. Broward County is contiguous to Palm Beach County in which we conduct operations. The referendum approved for Broward County in March 2005 also sought approval for Miami-Dade County. However, approval for Miami-Dade County was defeated at that time. The Florida legislature has passed legislation which permits 1,500 slot machines at each of the four (4) pari-mutuel facilities in Broward County. On November 15, 2006 Gulfstream Park Racing and Casino opened with approximately 500 slot machines, now has 1,200 slot machines and is expected to have 1,500 slot machines in the near future, Mardi Gras Racetrack & Gaming Center (formerly Hollywood Greyhound) operates with 1,100 slot machines and Pampano Park Racing operates with 1.500 slot machines. Neither the timing of the expansion of the slot machines at these locations, the installation at the one other location nor the impact to our Company, can be predicted at this time. 9 We are potentially subject to new gaming laws, regulations and taxes. Under Federal law, individual states are permitted to regulate or prohibit coastal gaming. The State of Florida does not currently regulate coastal gaming. However, from time to time, legislation has been introduced which, if enacted, would prohibit the coastal gaming business. There is the risk that Florida may at some future date regulate the coastal gaming business. Such regulation could adversely effect our business. In addition, the Federal government has previously considered a Federal tax on casino revenues and may consider such tax or other regulations that would affect our gaming business. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would expand, restrict or prevent gaming operations in Florida and in other jurisdictions throughout the country. Any such taxes, expansion of gaming or restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are subject to a variety of non-gaming regulations. The M/V Palm Beach Princess, the Big Easy, and any other vessels which we may operate in the future must comply with various international and U.S. Coast Guard requirements as to ship design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and general safety. An inability to maintain compliance with such regulations could force us to incur additional costs to retain compliance or require us to buy new vessels. In addition, we are subject to certain state and local safety and health laws, regulations and ordinances that apply to non-gaming businesses, such as the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and other environmental rules and regulations. The coverage and compliance costs associated with these laws, regulations and ordinances will result in future additional costs to our operations. We rely on patrons primarily from Florida and tourists from the Northeastern United States, and are therefore particularly sensitive to adverse economic events in these regions. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from patrons from the southern and central portions of Florida as well as from tourists visiting Florida from other parts of the United States, particularly the Northeast. Adverse economic conditions in any of these markets, or the failure of our vessels to continue to attract customers from these geographic markets as a result of increased competition in local markets, or other factors such as future terrorist attacks, which may lead to a decline in tourist travel, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Conditions and other factors beyond our control include: o competition from other amusement properties; o changes in regional and local population and disposable income composition; o changes or cancellations in local tourism; o changes in travel patterns or preferences which may be affected by increases in gasoline prices; o changes in airline schedules and fares, or airline strikes o weather events; and o our need to make renovations, refurbishments and improvements to our vessels to continue to attract tourists. Weather conditions could seriously disrupt our operations. Our gaming operations are subject to unique risks, including loss of service because of flood, hurricane or other severe weather conditions. Our vessels face additional risks from their movement and the movement of other vessels on waterways. Palm Beach, Florida is subject to severe storms, hurricanes and occasional flooding. As a result of such severe weather conditions, as well as the ordinary or extraordinary maintenance requirements of our vessels, if we are unable to operate our vessels, our results of operations will be harmed. We depend on our management to execute our business plan. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our current management, in particular that of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Francis W. Murray and our Vice President of ITG Vegas, Inc., Francis X. Murray. Since the business of gaming has expanded significantly over the past few years, so has the competition for qualified employees. There is no assurance that such persons can be retained or readily replaced. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to add qualified personnel as needed. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could adversely affect our business. Our business is seasonal and we experience significant quarterly fluctuations in operating results. Our quarterly operating results are expected to fluctuate significantly because of seasonality. We expect to generate the majority of our income during the quarters ending March 31 and June 30. If our operations are shut down for any periods of time during these quarters in particular, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 10 Our vessels are subject to the provisions of the International Convention on Safety of Life at Sea as Amended ("SOLAS 74"), which will require substantial capital expenses in the future. Our vessels are subject to the provisions of the International Convention on Safety of Life at Sea as Amended, which was adopted in 1974 by the International Maritime Organization, a specialized agency of the United Nations that is responsible for improving the safety and security of international shipping, and preventing marine pollution from ships. SOLAS 74 is the current basic safety standard for all ships engaged in international service. The Convention was substantially amended in 1992 and 2000 (the "Amendments") in order to upgrade and improve shipboard fire safety standards. The Amendments are applicable to all passenger ships engaged in international service, including retroactively those ships, such as the M/V Palm Beach Princess, that were built prior to 1980. Under the terms of the Amendments, full compliance by older ships with SOLAS 74 standards is to be phased in and completed no later than October 1, 2010. The M/V Palm Beach Princess, in compliance with the SOLAS 74 requirements to date, and has completed substantial upgrading and installation of fire sprinkler and smoke detection systems and other fire safety construction standards. By 2010 the ship must comply with the final phase of the implementation of the SOLAS 74 Amendments. Most notably, the Amendments require that no combustible material be used in ships' structures and that certain other interior structure and space standards be met. The precise nature and scope of necessary work will be determined in conjunction with the ship's classification. To accomplish such work may entail substantial cost in order to remove all wood and other combustible materials now used in the structure of the M/V Palm Beach Princess, to refit the ship with non-combustible materials, and otherwise to upgrade interior structure and spaces. We have not yet obtained an estimate of such cost. The Bareboat Charter and Option to Purchase Agreement for the M/V Palm Beach Princess permits us to purchase the vessel at the end of the charter period on July 1, 2009. We will need to make a determination if it will be economically feasible to purchase the M/V Palm Beach Princess at the end of the charter period considering the costs which may be involved in readying the vessel for SOLAS 74 requirements. We are subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations and our ships, including emissions and discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action or environmental clean up, penalties, or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions. With the sale of our Freehold Raceway property in New Jersey in January 1999 we assumed full responsibility for the costs associated with the clean up of petroleum and related contamination caused by the leakage of an underground storage tank, removed in 1990, prior to our purchase of Freehold Raceway. In February 2000, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection approved our remedial investigation workplan. Under the workplan, numerous test wells were drilled and soil tests were preformed to determine the extent and direction of the flow of underground hazardous material. Reports and conclusions of the tests were prepared for the State of New Jersey. However, prior to obtaining the workplan from the State of New Jersey, the work was stopped due to a lack of funds. At this time we are unable to predict the effects that such delays have caused, but it is likely that some retesting of the wells may be necessary. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our cost of operations and our revenues. Our vessels use significant amounts of fuel and other forms of energy. While no shortages of energy have been experienced, the recent increases in the cost of fuel in the United States will negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, energy and fuel price increases could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation to our vessels, which would negatively impact our revenues. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, and this impact could be material. We hold two notes from our sale of real property the repayment of which is dependent on revenues derived from these properties. We hold two notes. One in the face amount of $10 million and a second in the face amount of approximately $35 million. We have written down these notes to approximately $5.3 million based upon a term sheet we are negotiating for the sale of the notes. Both notes are payable from distributable cash generated by the development or sale of the former Garden State Park racetrack in Cherry Hill, New Jersey, which we sold. If the sale is not consummated all payments under these notes are uncertain and depend entirely upon the profitability of the development or resale of the subject real property. Economic downturns, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, could reduce the number of visitors or the amount of money visitors spend on our vessels. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for cruise trips and gaming in general and for the type of amenities we offer. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. During periods of economic contraction, our revenues may decrease while some of our costs remain fixed, 11 resulting in decreased earnings. This is because the gaming and other leisure activities we offer on our vessels are discretionary expenditures. Participation in these activities may decline during economic downturns because consumers have less disposable income. Even an uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer spending in our gaming operations and related facilities, as consumers spend less in anticipation of a potential economic downturn. The terrorist attacks which occurred on September 11, 2001, and the potential for future terrorist attacks had and may again have a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures. Leisure travel remains particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events. Many of the customers of our vessels travel by air, and the cost and availability of air service can affect our business. We cannot predict the extent to which war, future security alerts or additional terrorist attacks may interfere with our operations. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay stockholders' attempts to replace or remove current management. Our charter documents will provide that our Board of Directors is authorized to issue "blank check" preferred stock, with designations, rights and preferences as they may determine. Accordingly, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. This type of preferred stock could also be issued to discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control. The ability to issue "blank check" preferred stock is a traditional anti-takeover measure. These provisions in our charter documents make it difficult for a majority stockholder to gain control of the Board of Directors and of our company. These provisions may be beneficial to our management and our Board of Directors in a hostile tender offer and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such a tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of our Board of Directors. Provisions in our bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors, which could require us to direct funds away from our business. Our bylaws provide for the indemnification of our officers and directors. We may be required to advance costs incurred by an officer or director and to pay judgments, fines and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys' fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which our officers and directors are involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director of our company. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses may be funds we need for the operation of our business, thereby affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock and our Stock Transfer Agent is no longer performing services. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance of any liquidity or resale value of our common stock, and stockholders may be required to hold shares of our common stock for an indefinite period of time. Additionally our Stock Transfer Company is no longer performing services on behalf of the Company because of overdue, unpaid bills. Thus, shareholders owning shares in Certificate form are not able to transact their shares. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In the future, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants addressing these assessments. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. This may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. We have no intention of paying dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. 12 