Item 1A. Risk Factors The information set forth in this Item 1A should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and the historical financial statements and related notes this report contains. While we attempt to identify, manage and mitigate risks and uncertainties associated with our business to the extent practical under the circumstances, some level of risk and uncertainty will always be present. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may negatively impact our business, financial condition or operating results. Set forth below are various risks and uncertainties that could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to the Oil and Gas Industry We derive all our revenues from companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices. As a provider of contract land drilling services and oil and gas production services, our business depends on the level of exploration and production activity by oil and gas companies operating in the geographic markets where we operate. The oil and gas exploration and production industry is a historically cyclical industry characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities. Oil and gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in those prices, significantly affect the levels of those activities. Worldwide political, economic, and military events as well as natural disasters have contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect us in many ways by negatively impacting: • our revenues, cash flows and profitability; • the fair market value of our drilling rig fleet and production service assets; • our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity; • our ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business and make acquisitions, and the cost of that capital; and • our ability to retain skilled rig personnel whom we would need in the event of an upturn in the demand for our services. Depending on the market prices of oil and gas, oil and gas exploration and production companies may cancel or curtail their drilling programs and may lower production spending on existing wells, thereby reducing demand for our services. Oil and gas prices have been volatile historically and, we believe, will continue to be so in the future. Many factors beyond our control affect oil and gas prices, including: • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; • available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation capacity; • the levels of oil and gas storage; • the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; • economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere; 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • actions by OPEC, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • political instability in the Middle East and other major oil and gas producing regions; • governmental regulations, both domestic and foreign; • domestic and foreign tax policy; • weather conditions in the United States and elsewhere; • the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their national reserves; • the price of foreign imports of oil and gas; and • the overall supply and demand for oil and gas. As a result of declines in oil and natural gas prices and uncertainty in the capital markets due to the downturn in the global economic environment that began in late 2008 and a continued sluggish economy during 2009, our customers have reduced spending on exploration and production and this has resulted in a decrease in demand for our services. We are unable to determine whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain or increase their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. The sluggish global economic environment may impact industry fundamentals, and the potential resulting continued sluggish demand for drilling and production services could adversely affect our business. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly impact the level of worldwide drilling and production services activities. Oil and natural gas prices are significantly below the levels seen in late 2008 due to a deteriorating global economic environment which remained sluggish during 2009. The lower oil and natural gas prices, as well as the slow recovery in the global credit markets, have caused exploration and production companies to reduce their overall level of drilling and production services activity and spending. When drilling and production activity and spending declines, both day rates and utilization have historically declined. As a result, the declines in oil and natural gas prices and the sluggish economy have adversely affected our business and operating results. Continued declines in oil and natural gas prices and a continued sluggish economy could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Moreover, the sluggish global economic environment may continue to impact fundamentals that are critical to our industry, such as the global demand for, and consumption of, oil and natural gas. Reduced demand for oil and natural gas generally results in lower prices for these commodities and may impact the economics of planned drilling projects and ongoing production projects, resulting in the curtailment, reduction, delay or postponement of such projects for an indeterminate period of time. Companies that planned to finance exploration, development or production projects through the capital markets may be forced to curtail, reduce, postpone or delay drilling or production services activities, and also may experience an inability to pay suppliers. The sluggish global economic environment could also impact our vendors and suppliers’ ability to meet obligations to provide materials and services in general. If any of the foregoing were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Risks Relating to Our Business Reduced demand for or excess capacity of drilling services or production services could adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability in the future will depend on many factors, but largely on pricing and utilization rates for our drilling and production services. A reduction in the demand for drilling rigs or an increase in the supply of drilling rigs, whether through new construction or refurbishment, could decrease the dayrates and utilization rates for our drilling services, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. An increase in supply of 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements well service rigs, wireline units and fishing and rental tools equipment, without a corresponding increase in demand, could similarly decrease the pricing and utilization rates of our production services, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We experienced a substantial decrease in revenue and utilization rates during the last quarter of 2008 and during 2009. We operate in a highly competitive, fragmented industry in which price competition could reduce our profitability. We encounter substantial competition from other drilling contractors and other oilfield service companies. Our primary market areas are highly fragmented and competitive. The fact that drilling, workover and well-servicing rigs are mobile and can be moved from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the competition in the industry and may result in an oversupply of rigs in an area. Contract drilling companies and other oilfield service companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and the intensity of competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. If demand for drilling or production services improves in a region where we operate, our competitors might respond by moving in suitable rigs from other regions. An influx of rigs from other regions could rapidly intensify competition, reduce profitability and make any improvement in demand for drilling or production services short-lived. Most drilling services contracts and production services contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. In addition to pricing and rig availability, we believe the following factors are also important to our customers in determining which drilling services or production services provider to select: • the type and condition of each of the competing drilling, workover and well-servicing rigs; • the mobility and efficiency of the rigs; • the quality of service and experience of the rig crews; • the safety records of the rigs; • the offering of ancillary services; and • the ability to provide drilling and production equipment adaptable to, and personnel familiar with, new technologies and drilling and production techniques. While we must be competitive in our pricing, our competitive strategy generally emphasizes the quality of our equipment, the safety record of our rigs, our ability to offer ancillary services and the quality of service and experience of our rig crews to differentiate us from our competitors. This strategy is less effective as lower demand for drilling and production services or an oversupply of drilling, workover and well-servicing rigs intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult for us to compete on the basis of factors other than price. In all of the markets in which we compete, an oversupply of rigs can cause greater price competition, which can reduce our profitability. We face competition from many competitors with greater resources. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and other resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to: • better withstand industry downturns; • compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology; • retain skilled rig personnel; and • build new rigs or acquire and refurbish existing rigs so as to be able to place rigs into service more quickly than us in periods of high drilling demand. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additionally, although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced technologies for drilling and production services equipment, changes in technology or improvements in our competitors’ equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep our equipment competitive. Unexpected cost overruns on our turnkey drilling jobs and our footage contracts could adversely affect our financial position and our results of operations. We have historically derived a portion of our revenues from turnkey drilling contracts, and we expect turnkey contracts will continue to represent a component of our future revenues. The occurrence of uninsured or under-insured losses or operating cost overruns on our turnkey jobs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Under a typical turnkey drilling contract, we agree to drill a well for our customer to a specified depth and under specified conditions for a fixed price. We provide technical expertise and engineering services, as well as most of the equipment and drilling supplies required to drill the well. We often subcontract for related services, such as the provision of casing crews, cementing and well logging. Under typical turnkey drilling arrangements, we do not receive progress payments and are paid by our customer only after we have performed the terms of the drilling contract in full. For these reasons, the risk to us under a turnkey drilling contract is substantially greater than for a well drilled on a daywork basis because we must assume most of the risks associated with drilling operations that the operator generally assumes under a daywork contract, including the risks of blowout, loss of hole, stuck drill pipe, machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions and risks associated with subcontractors’ services, supplies, cost escalations and personnel. Similar to our turnkey contracts, under a footage contract we assume most of the risks associated with drilling operations that the operator generally assumes under a daywork contract. In addition, since we are only paid by our customers after we have performed the terms of the drilling contract in full, our liquidity can be affected by the number of turnkey and footage contracts that we enter into. Although we attempt to obtain insurance coverage to reduce certain of the risks inherent in our turnkey drilling operations, adequate coverage may be unavailable in the future and we might have to bear the full cost of such risks, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations involve operating hazards, which, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the drilling, workover and well-servicing industries, including the risks of: • blowouts; • cratering; • fires and explosions; • loss of well control; • collapse of the borehole; • damaged or lost drilling equipment; and • damage or loss from natural disasters. Any of these hazards can result in substantial liabilities or losses to us from, among other things: • suspension of operations; • damage to, or destruction of, our property and equipment and that of others; • personal injury and loss of life; 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations through which we drill; and • environmental damage. We seek to protect ourselves from some but not all operating hazards through insurance coverage. However, some risks are either not insurable or insurance is available only at rates that we consider uneconomical. Those risks include, among other things, pollution liability in excess of relatively low limits. Depending on competitive conditions and other factors, we attempt to obtain contractual protection against uninsured operating risks from our customers. However, customers who provide contractual indemnification protection may not in all cases maintain adequate insurance or otherwise have the financial resources necessary to support their indemnification obligations. Our insurance or indemnification arrangements may not adequately protect us against liability or loss from all the hazards of our operations. The occurrence of a significant event that we have not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. We could be adversely affected if shortages of equipment, supplies or personnel occur. From time to time there have been shortages of drilling and production services equipment and supplies during periods of high demand which we believe could recur. Shortages could result in increased prices for drilling and production services equipment or supplies that we may be unable to pass on to customers. In addition, during periods of shortages, the delivery times for equipment and supplies can be substantially longer. Any significant delays in our obtaining drilling and production services equipment or supplies could limit drilling and production services operations and jeopardize our relations with customers. In addition, shortages of drilling and production services equipment or supplies could delay and adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts for our rigs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our strategy of constructing drilling rigs during periods of peak demand requires that we maintain an adequate supply of drilling rig components to complete our rig building program. Our suppliers may be unable to continue providing us the needed drilling rig components if their manufacturing sources are unable to fulfill their commitments. Our operations require the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to obtain the proper operational results. As a result, our operations depend, to a considerable extent, on the continuing availability of such personnel. Shortages of qualified personnel have occurred in our industry. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our equipment, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. The occurrence of either of these events for a significant period of time could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to various risks, including those relating to difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition opportunities and integrating businesses, assets and personnel, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing for targeted acquisitions and the potential for increased leverage or debt service requirements. As a key component of our business strategy, we have pursued and intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary assets and businesses. For example, over the last 10 years, we have significantly expanded our drilling rig fleet by adding 35 rigs through acquisitions and by adding 31 rigs through the construction of rigs from new and used components. In addition, during the first quarter of 2008, we completed the acquisition of the production services businesses of WEDGE and Competition. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our acquisition strategy in general, and our recent acquisitions in particular, involve numerous inherent risks, including: • unanticipated costs and assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities; • difficulties in integrating the operations and assets of the acquired business and the acquired personnel; • limitations on our ability to properly assess and maintain an effective internal control environment over an acquired business in order to comply with applicable periodic reporting requirements; • potential losses of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses; • risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; and • increases in our expenses and working capital requirements. The process of integrating an acquired business may involve unforeseen costs and delays or other operational, technical and financial difficulties that may require a disproportionate amount of management attention and financial and other resources. Possible future acquisitions may be for purchase prices significantly higher than those we paid for previous acquisitions. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to incorporate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions. Historically, we have funded the growth of our rig fleet through a combination of debt and equity financing. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities or convertible securities in connection with such acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. Even if we have access to the necessary capital, we may be unable to continue to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. For several years, we have had little or no long-term debt. In connection with the acquisition of the production services businesses of WEDGE and Competition in March 2008, we entered into a senior secured revolving credit facility which was later amended in October 2009. As of December 31, 2009, our total debt was $262.1 million. Our current and future indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • impairing our ability to make investments and obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness; • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general as a substantial portion of our operating cash flow could be required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, making it more difficult to react to changes in our business and in industry and market conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing that may be necessary to operate or expand our business; • putting us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have less debt; and • increasing our vulnerability to rising interest rates. We anticipate that our cash generated by operations and our ability to borrow under the currently unused portion of our senior secured revolving credit facility should allow us to meet our routine financial obligations for the foreseeable future. However, our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to conditions in the oil and gas industry, general economic and financial conditions, competition in the markets where we operate, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: • refinancing or restructuring our debt; • selling assets; • reducing or delaying acquisitions or capital investments, such as refurbishments of our rigs and related equipment; or • seeking to raise additional capital. However, we may be unable to implement alternative financing plans, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and any such alternative financing plans might be insufficient to allow us to meet our debt obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain the funds required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in our senior secured revolving credit facility or other instruments governing any future indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of our senior secured revolving credit facility or such instruments. In the event of a default, the lenders under our senior secured revolving credit facility could elect to declare all the loans made under such facility to be due and payable together with accrued and unpaid interest and terminate their commitments thereunder and we or one or more of our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our senior secured revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business. Our senior secured revolving credit facility limits our ability to take various actions, such as: • limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; • restrictions on investments, capital expenditures, mergers or consolidations, asset dispositions, acquisitions, transactions with affiliates and other transactions without the lenders’ consent; and • limitation on dividends and distributions. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial conditions, which may require us to reduce our debt or take some other action in order to comply with them. The failure to comply with any of these financial conditions, several of which become more restrictive over time, such as financial ratios or covenants, would cause an event of default under our senior secured revolving credit facility. An event of default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the outstanding indebtedness under our senior secured revolving credit facility, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to pay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. These 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements restrictions could also limit our ability to obtain future financing, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We also may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in our domestic operations. As we continue to implement our strategy of expanding into areas outside the United States, our international operations will be subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not generally encountered in our U.S. operations. These will include, among potential others: • risks of war, terrorism, civil unrest and kidnapping of employees; • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of our assets; • renegotiation or nullification of contracts; • foreign taxation; • the inability to repatriate earnings or capital due to laws limiting the right and ability of foreign subsidiaries to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies; • changing political conditions and changing laws and policies affecting trade and investment; • concentration of customers; • regional economic downturns; • the overlap of different tax structures; • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; • the risks associated with the assertion of foreign sovereignty over areas in which our operations are conducted; • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; and • potentially longer payment cycles. Our international operations are concentrated in Colombia and our drilling contracts are currently with one customer, Ecopetrol. We believe our relationship with Ecopetrol is good; however, the loss of this large customer could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Our international operations may also face the additional risks of fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange. Additionally, in some jurisdictions, we may be subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations could adversely affect our ability to compete. Our operations are subject to various laws and governmental regulations that could restrict our future operations and increase our operating costs. Many aspects of our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations, including laws and regulations governing: • environmental quality; • pollution control; • remediation of contamination; 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • preservation of natural resources; • transportation, and • worker safety. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations governing the protection of the environment and human health and safety. Some of those laws, rules and regulations relate to the disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials and restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of those substances that can be released into the environment. Several of those laws also require removal and remedial action and other cleanup under certain circumstances, commonly regardless of fault. Our operations routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous substances. Planning, implementation and maintenance of protective measures are required to prevent accidental discharges. Spills of oil, natural gas liquids, drilling fluids and other substances may subject us to penalties and cleanup requirements. Handling, storage and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are also subject to these regulatory requirements. In addition, our operations are often conducted in or near ecologically sensitive areas, such as wetlands, which are subject to special protective measures and which may expose us to additional operating costs and liabilities for accidental discharges of oil, gas, drilling fluids, contaminated water or other substances, or for noncompliance with other aspects of applicable laws and regulations. The federal Clean Water Act, as amended by the Oil Pollution Act, the federal Clean Air Act, the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, and their state counterparts and similar statutes are the primary statutes that impose the requirements described above and provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties and other sanctions for violation of their requirements. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the Environmental Protection Agency “community right-to-know” regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and comparable state statutes require us to organize and report information about the hazardous materials we use in our operations to employees, state and local government authorities and local citizens. In addition, CERCLA, also known as the “Superfund” law, and similar state statutes impose strict liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered responsible for the release or threatened release of hazardous substances into the environment. These persons include the current owner or operator of a facility where a release has occurred, the owner or operator of a facility at the time a release occurred, and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances found at a particular site. This liability may be joint and several. Such liability, which may be imposed for the conduct of others and for conditions others have caused, includes the cost of removal and remedial action as well as damages to natural resources. Few defenses exist to the liability imposed by environmental laws and regulations. It is also common for third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage caused by substances released into the environment. Environmental laws and regulations are complex and subject to frequent change. Failure to comply with governmental requirements or inadequate cooperation with governmental authorities could subject a responsible party to administrative, civil or criminal action. We may also be exposed to environmental or other liabilities originating from businesses and assets which we acquired from others. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination or regulatory noncompliance may require us to make material expenditures or subject us to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate. There are a variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements and legislative initiatives that have been introduced in the United States and international regions in which we operate that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Among these developments are the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the “Kyoto Protocol” (an internationally applied protocol, which has been ratified in Columbia, one of our reporting segments), the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative or “RGGI” in the Northeastern United States, and the Western Regional 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Climate Action Initiative in the Western United States, including partners states New Mexico, Utah, and Montana and observer states Colorado and Wyoming. The U.S. Congress has been actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the development of greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. In June of 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a cap and trade bill known as the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, which is now being considered by the U.S. Senate, among other alternative bills. In addition, more than one-third of the states already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. In 2007, the United States Supreme Court in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, held that carbon dioxide may be regulated as an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act. On December 7, 2009, the EPA responded to the Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA decision and issued a finding that the current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten the public health and welfare of current and future generations, and that certain greenhouse gases from new motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines contribute to the atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases and hence to the threat of climate change. On September 22, 2009, EPA finalized a rule requiring nation-wide reporting of greenhouse gas emissions beginning January 1, 2010. The rule applies primarily to large facilities emitting 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide-equivalent greenhouse gas emissions per year, and to most upstream suppliers of fossil fuels and industrial greenhouse gas, as well as to manufacturers of vehicles and engines. In addition, EPA recently proposed a rule that would, in general, require facilities that emit more than 25,000 tons per year of greenhouse gas equivalents to obtain permits to demonstrate that best practices and technology are being used to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted as initially written, if at all, or how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. In addition, these developments could curtail the demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our future results of operations. Finally, we cannot predict with any certainty whether changes to temperature, storm intensity or precipitation patterns as a result of climate change will have a material impact on our operations. In addition, our business depends on the demand for land drilling and production services from the oil and gas industry and, therefore, is affected by tax, environmental and other laws relating to the oil and gas industry generally, by changes in those laws and by changes in related administrative regulations. It is possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or those of our customers, or otherwise directly or indirectly affect our operations. Among the services we provide, we operate as a motor carrier and therefore are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, onboard black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the U.S. Department of Transportation. To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to us will be enacted. Risk Relating to Our Capitalization and Organizational Documents We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our shareholders. We have not paid or declared any dividends on our common stock and currently intend to retain any earnings to fund our working capital needs and growth opportunities. Any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors it deems relevant, including our financial condition and performance, cash needs, income tax consequences and restrictions imposed by the Texas Business Corporation Act and other applicable laws and by our credit facilities. Our debt arrangements include provisions that generally prohibit us from paying dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. Provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change in control of our company even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change in control of our company even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our company difficult, including: • provisions regulating the ability of our shareholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our shareholders; • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to call a special meeting and act by written consent; • provisions dividing our board of directors into three classes elected for staggered terms; and • the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. We may continue to experience market conditions that could adversely affect the liquidity of our auction rate preferred security investment. At December 31, 2009, we held $15.9 million (par value) of investments comprised of tax exempt, auction rate preferred securities (“ARPSs”), which are variable-rate preferred securities and have a long-term maturity 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements with the interest rate being reset through “Dutch auctions” that are held every 7 days. The ARPSs have historically traded at par because of the frequent interest rate resets and because they are callable at par at the option of the issuer. Interest is paid at the end of each auction period. Our ARPSs are AAA/Aaa rated securities, collateralized by municipal bonds and backed by assets that are equal to or greater than 200% of the liquidation preference. Until February 2008, the auction rate securities market was highly liquid. Beginning mid-February 2008, we experienced several “failed” auctions, meaning that there was not enough demand to sell all of the securities that holders desired to sell at auction. The immediate effect of a failed auction is that such holders cannot sell the securities at auction and the interest rate on the security resets to a maximum auction rate. We have continued to receive interest payments on our ARPSs in accordance with their terms. Unless a future auction is successful or the issuer calls the security pursuant to redemption prior to maturity, we may not be able to access the funds we invested in our ARPSs without a loss of principal. We have no reason to believe that any of the underlying municipal securities that collateralize our ARPSs are presently at risk of default. We believe we will ultimately recover the par value of the ARPSs without loss, primarily due to the collateral securing the ARPSs and our estimate of the discounted cash flows that we expect to collect. We do not currently intend to sell our ARPSs at a loss. Also, we believe it is more-likely-than-not that we will not have to sell our ARPSs prior to recovery, since our liquidity needs are expected to be met with cash flows from operating activities and borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Our ARPSs are designated as available-for-sale and are reported at fair market value with the related unrealized gains or losses, included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, a component of shareholders’ equity. The estimated fair value of our ARPSs at December 31, 2009 was $13.2 million compared with a par value of $15.9 million. The $2.7 million difference represents a fair value discount due to the current lack of liquidity which is considered temporary and has been recorded as an unrealized loss, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). There was no portion of the fair value discount attributable to credit losses. We would recognize an impairment charge in our statement of operations if the fair value of our investments falls below the cost basis and is judged to be other-than-temporary. Our ARPSs are classified with other long-term assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 because of our inability to determine the recovery period of our investments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 