Item 1A. Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following discussion of various risks and uncertainties. We believe these risk factors are the most relevant to our business and could cause our results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by us. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing us. Additional risks that we do not consider material, or of which we are not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on us. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs or materializes. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline, and our shareholders may lose all or part of their investment. COMMON STOCK PRICE FLUCTUATIONS Our Common Stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. General Factors. We believe some of the reasons for past fluctuations in the price of our stock have included: • announcements of developments related to our business; • announcements concerning new products or enhancements in the equipment that we rent; or developments in our relationships with our customers; • variations in our revenues, gross margins, earnings or other financial results from investors’ expectations; and • fluctuations in results of our operations and general conditions in the economy, our market, and the markets served by our customers. In addition, prices in the stock market have been volatile in recent years. In many cases, the fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. As a result, the price of our Common Stock could fluctuate in the future without regard to our operating performance. Future Sales of our Common Stock. Sales of our Common Stock by our officers, directors and employees could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of our shares. Additionally, the price could be affected even by the potential for sales by these persons. In addition to the approximately 25,992,559 shares outstanding as of August 1, 2008, we are authorized to issue up to 512,301 shares of Common Stock upon exercise of stock options previously granted under our Stock Option Plans. We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our Common Stock, or the potential for those sales, will have on our share price. FLUCTUATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS Historically, our operating results have fluctuated, and we expect that fluctuations could continue in the future. The fluctuations in our past results have resulted from many factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the future, these or other factors could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cause our stock price to decrease. 6 Table of Contents Timing of Equipment Purchases and Sales. The profitability of our business depends in significant part on controlling the timing, pricing and mix of purchases and sales of equipment. We seek to acquire new and used equipment at attractive prices, from which we feel we can make a profit as a result of a combination of renting and/or selling that equipment. We base expenditures for equipment purchases, sales and marketing and other items on our expectations of future customer demand. In order to maximize overall profit from the rental, leasing, and sales of equipment, we manage our equipment pool on an on-going basis by analyzing our product strategy for each specific equipment class in light of that equipment’s historical and projected lifecycle. In doing so, we compare our estimate of potential profit from rental with the potential profit from the product’s immediate sale and replacement with new or other equipment. Equipment Pool Management. Our overall equipment management is complex and our product strategy can change during a product’s lifetime based upon numerous factors, including the U.S. and global economy, interest rates and new product launches. Our strategic equipment decisions are based on the following fundamentals: • Our acquisition cost; • Our estimates of current and future market demand for rentals; • Our estimates of current and future supply of product; • The book value of the product after depreciation and other impairment; • Our estimates of the effect of interest rates on rental and leasing fees as well as capital financing; and • Our estimates of the potential current and future sale prices. However, historical trends are not necessarily indicative of future trends. If our assumptions prove to be wrong, not only may our revenues fall short of our expectations, but we may not be able to adjust our inventory quickly enough to compensate for lower demand for one or more products in our inventory. In addition, as demand for a product falls, we may have difficulty in selling any of our excess equipment at a favorable price or at all. Both of these factors can compound the impact of any revenue shortfall and further affect our operating results and the price of our stock. Risks Associated with Changing Economic Conditions. Our customers historically have reduced their expenditures for electronic equipment during economic downturns. Accordingly, when the domestic and/or international economy weakens, demand for our services may decline. A large part of our equipment pool is rented or leased to customers in the aerospace, defense, electronics and telecommunications industries. Slowdowns in the U.S. or global economy generally, or one or more of these specific industries, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. In fact, in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2003, the U.S. economy experienced a downturn and the core industries we serve were negatively impacted. As a result, we experienced a decline in revenues, and we recorded a loss on impairment of goodwill and intangibles. Recent uncertainty in the U.S. and global economy as a result of more stringent credit requirements and access to capital may adversely affect our customers. While we have experienced improved results since 2004 as noted above, our rental and lease rates and utilization, operating results and net income could be adversely affected by recent trends. Seasonal and Quarterly Fluctuations. Regardless of the overall economic outlook domestically and globally, December, January and February typically reflect lower rental activity. In addition, because February is a short month, revenue billing in that month is reduced. We cannot predict whether these seasonal factors or their effects will change in the future. The seasonal spending patterns of our customers are affected by factors such as: • weather, holiday and vacation considerations; and • budgetary considerations. 7 Table of Contents Additionally, our operating results are subject to quarterly fluctuations resulting from a variety of factors, including remarketing activities, product announcements by manufacturers, economic conditions and variations in the financial mix of new rentals and leases. The financial mix of new rentals and leases is a result of a combination of factors such as: • changes in customer demands and/or requirements; • new product announcements; • price changes; • changes in delivery dates; • changes in maintenance policies and the pricing policies of equipment manufacturers; and • price competition from other rental, leasing and finance companies. Other Factors. Other factors that may affect our operating results include: • competitive forces within our current and anticipated future markets; • changes in interest rates; • our ability to attract customers and meet their expectations; • currency fluctuations and other risks of international operations; • general economic conditions; and • differences in the timing of our spending on acquiring equipment, renting or leasing that equipment and receiving revenues from our customers. All or any of these and similar factors could result in our operating results differing substantially from the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a material adverse impact on our stock price. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INVESTMENTS We may realize losses on our investments in auction rate securities or be unable to liquidate these investments at desired times and in desired amounts. At May 31, 2008, we held $23.6 million, at cost, in auction rate securities (“ARS”), which we classify as investments. Historically, our ARS were highly liquid, using a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined intervals, typically every 35 days, to provide liquidity at par. However, as a result of liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets, the auctions for all of our ARS failed beginning in February 2008 when sell orders exceeded buy orders. If the market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income or impairment charges. We may not be able to liquidate these investments unless the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TECHNOLOGY CHANGES If we do not adequately anticipate or respond to changes in technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. Technological Advancements. We must anticipate and keep pace with the introduction of new hardware, software and networking technologies and acquire equipment that will be marketable to our current 8 Table of Contents and prospective customers. The equipment we rent can be the subject of rapid technological developments, evolving customer demands and frequent new product announcements and enhancements. If we fail to adequately anticipate or adapt to new technological developments or to recognize changing market conditions, our operating results and stock price could be materially and adversely affected. Expenses Resulting from Technological Advancements. As a result of technology developments, we may have to make substantial and unanticipated expenditures to acquire new equipment or invest in further staff education on operating and servicing the equipment we deliver to our customers. Further, we may not adequately anticipate or respond successfully to technological changes for many reasons, including misjudging the impact of technological changes as well as financial, technological or other constraints. If we do not adequately anticipate or respond to changes in technological advancements or customer preferences, it would likely have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. Introduction of New Products and Services. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and declining prices of certain products. Our operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to introduce new services and to control and/or reduce costs on existing services. Whether we succeed in our new offerings depends on several factors such as: • proper identification of customer needs; • our costs; • timely completion and introduction of products and services as compared to our competitors; • our ability to differentiate our equipment and services from our competitors; and • market acceptance of our business. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CUSTOMER SOLVENCY If we do not collect on contracts with customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. One of the reasons some of our customers find it more attractive to rent or lease electronic equipment than owning that equipment is the need to deploy their capital elsewhere. This can be particularly true in industries with high growth rates such as the telecommunications industry. However, some of our customers have liquidity issues, and ultimately cannot fulfill the terms of their agreements with us. If we are not able to manage credit risk issues, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses would increase above historical levels. If this should occur, our results of operations and stock price may be materially and adversely affected. COMPETITION If we do not effectively compete in our market, our operating results and stock price will be materially and adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by intense competition from several large competitors, some of which have access to greater financial and other resources than we do. Although no single competitor holds a dominant market share, we face intensifying competition from both established entities and new entries in the market. Our primary competitors have been identified by independent industry publications to include: • McGrath Rent Corp.; • Telogy; • Continental Resources; 9 Table of Contents • Microlease plc; • Livingston Group Ltd.; and • Orix Corporation. Some of our competitors may offer similar equipment for lease, rental or sale at lower prices and may offer more extensive servicing options. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS If we do not adequately anticipate and respond to the risks inherent in international operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. Currency Risks. We generate a meaningful portion of our revenues from international operations. Our contracts to supply equipment outside of the U.S. are generally priced in local currency. However, our consolidated financial statements are prepared in U.S. dollars. Consequently, changes in exchange rates can unpredictably and adversely affect our consolidated operating results, and could result in exchange losses. Currently, we do not hedge against the risks associated with fluctuations in exchange rates. Although we may use hedging techniques in the future, we may not be able to eliminate or reduce the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. Other Risks Associated with International Operations. Additionally, our financial results may be adversely affected by other international risks, such as: • international political and economic conditions; • changes in government regulation in various countries; • trade barriers; • difficulty in staffing our foreign sales and service centers, and in training and retaining foreign employees; • issues relating to the repatriation of any profits; • adverse tax consequences; and • costs associated with expansion into new territories. We expect to continue our international operations and that the revenues we derive from these activities will continue to be a meaningful portion of our total revenues. If we do not anticipate and respond to the risks associated with international operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR MANUFACTURERS AND SUPPLIERS If we are not able to obtain equipment at favorable rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. About 87% of our equipment portfolio at acquisition cost is composed of general purpose T&M instruments purchased from leading manufacturers such as Agilent Technologies and Tektronix. The remainder of our equipment pool comprises personal computers and workstations which include personal computers from Compaq, Dell, IBM, Apple, and Toshiba and workstations primarily from Sun Microsystems and Hewlett Packard. We depend on these manufacturers and suppliers to contract for our equipment. If, in the future, we are not able to purchase necessary equipment from one or more of these suppliers on favorable terms, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands in a timely manner or for a price that generates a 10 Table of Contents profit. If this should occur, we can make no assurance that we will be able to secure necessary equipment from an alternative source on acceptable terms and our business and stock price may be materially and adversely affected. DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL If we are unable to recruit and retain qualified personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. Our success depends in large part on the continued services of our executive officers, our senior managers and other key personnel, including, among others, our Chief Executive Officer, Daniel Greenberg, our President, Steven Markheim, and our Chief Financial Officer, Craig Jones. The loss of these people, especially without advance notice, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. It is also very important that we attract and retain highly skilled personnel to accommodate growth and to replace personnel who leave. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, especially in technology industries, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience to market, sell and service our equipment. Under these conditions, we could be unable to recruit, train, and retain employees. If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. CONTROL BY MANAGEMENT AND OTHERS Senior management has significant influence over our policies and affairs and may be in a position to determine the outcome of corporate actions. Our executive officers and directors collectively own approximately 18.7% of our Common Stock. Mr. Greenberg, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 16.4% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock. In addition, two other shareholders control 30.8% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock. Consequently, these shareholders, including Mr. Greenberg, may have significant influence over our policies and affairs and may be in a position to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. These may include, for example, the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our corporate documents and the approval of mergers and sales of our assets. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH POSSIBLE ACQUISITIONS AND NEW BUSINESS VENTURES If we cannot successfully implement any future acquisitions or new business ventures, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. On occasion, we evaluate business opportunities that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. Acquisitions and new business ventures, both domestic and foreign, involve many risks, including: • the difficulty of integrating acquired operations and personnel with our existing operations; • the difficulty of developing and marketing new products and services; • the diversion of our management’s attention as a result of evaluating, negotiating and integrating acquisitions or new business ventures; • our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and • the loss of key employees of an acquired operation. In addition, an acquisition or new business venture could adversely impact cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute shareholder interests, for many reasons, including: • charges to our income to reflect the impairment of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; • interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition or new business venture; and 11 Table of Contents • any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or new business venture which dilutes or lessens the rights of our current shareholders. Additionally, we have implemented various new business ventures in the past, and not all of such ventures have been successful. The risks associated with acquisitions and new business ventures could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FLUCTUATING INTEREST RATES Interest Rate Fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. Our leasing yields generally directly correlate with market interest rates: When interest rates are higher, our leasing terms incorporate a higher financing charge. However, in times of relatively lower interest rates our financing charges also decrease, and some of our customers choose to purchase new equipment, rather than leasing equipment at all. Lower leasing yields are reflected in lower rental and lease revenues. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS The anti-takeover provisions contained in our Charter Documents could materially and adversely impact the value of our Common Stock. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, our Bylaws and California law could, together or separately, discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so might benefit our shareholders. This may adversely impact the interests of our shareholders with respect to a potential acquisition and may also affect the price investors would receive for their shares of Common Stock. Some examples of these provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws are: • the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with rights and privileges which are senior to the Common Stock, without prior shareholder approval; and • certain limitations of the rights of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 