Item 1A. Risk Factors.Please carefully consider the following discussion of various risks and uncertainties, as well as the other information in this report and in other reports and documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, when evaluating our business and future prospects. We believe that the following risk factors are the most relevant to our business, but they are not the only risk factors that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also occur. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur or materialize. In that event, the market price for our Common Stock could decline, and our shareholders may lose all or part of their investment.5Table of ContentsCOMMON STOCK PRICE FLUCTUATIONSThe price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to do so in the future.General Factors. We believe some of the reasons for past fluctuations in the price of our Common Stock have included:•announcements of developments related to our business;•announcements concerning new products or enhancements in the equipment that we rent, or developments in our relationships with our customers;•variations in our revenues, gross margins, earnings or other financial results from investors’ expectations; and•fluctuations in results of our operations and general conditions in the economy, our market, and the markets served by our customers.In addition, prices in the stock market in general have been volatile in recent years. In many cases, the fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. As a result, the price of our Common Stock could fluctuate in the future without regard to our operating performance.Future Sales of our Common Stock. Sales of our Common Stock by our officers, directors and employees could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of our shares. Additionally, the price could be affected by even the potential for sales by these persons. In addition to the 24,008,489 shares outstanding as of August 11, 2014, as of such date, up to 517,907 shares of Common Stock may be issued upon conversion of our vested and unvested stock units previously granted under our Equity Incentive Plan.We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our Common Stock, or the potential for those sales, will have on the share price for our Common Stock.FLUCTUATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTSHistorically, our operating results have fluctuated from period to period, and we expect that fluctuations could continue in the future. The fluctuations in our past results have resulted from many factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the future, these or other factors could have a material impact on our operating results and the price of our Common Stock.Timing of Equipment Purchases and Sales and Equipment Pool Management. The profitability of our business depends in part on controlling the timing, pricing and mix of purchases and sales of equipment and on managing our equipment pool. We seek to acquire new and used equipment at attractive prices, from which we feel we can make a profit as a result of a combination of renting, leasing and selling that equipment. We base expenditures for equipment purchases, sales and marketing and other items on our expectations of future customer demand. In order to maximize overall profit from the rental, leasing, and sales of equipment, we manage our equipment pool on an on-going basis by analyzing our product strategy for equipment in light of historical and projected lifecycles. In doing so, we compare our estimate of potential profit from rental with the potential profit from the product’s immediate sale and replacement with new or other equipment.Our overall equipment management is complex and our equipment strategy can change during the equipment’s lifetime based upon numerous factors, including the U.S. and global economy, interest rates and new product launches. Our strategic equipment decisions are based on the following fundamentals:•our acquisition cost;•our estimates of current and future market demand for rentals;•our estimates of current and future supply of equipment;•the book value of the equipment after depreciation and other impairment;•our estimates of the effect of interest rates on rental and leasing fees as well as capital financing; and•our estimates of the potential current and future sale prices of equipment.However, historical trends are not necessarily indicative of future trends. If our assumptions prove to be wrong, not only may our revenues fall short of our expectations, but we may not be able to adjust our equipment quickly enough to compensate for lower demand for one or more products in our equipment pool. In addition, as demand for a product falls, we may have 6Table of Contentsdifficulty in selling any of our excess equipment at a favorable price or at all. Both of these factors can compound the impact of any revenue shortfall and further affect our operating results and the price of our Common Stock.Global Economic Conditions. In recent years, our financial results have been impacted by competitive pressure on rental rates due in large part to the recession in the U.S. and our major international markets. Our customers historically have reduced their expenditures for T&M and DP equipment during economic downturns. Accordingly, when the domestic and/or international economy weakens, demand for our product offerings declines. A large part of our equipment pool is rented or leased to customers in the aerospace, defense, telecommunications, electronics, industrial and semiconductor industries. Continued weakness in the U.S. and global economy, or in one or more of these specific industries, may result in lower demand and increased pressure on prices and gross profit.Economic uncertainty continues to impact our customers and competitors, resulting in more stringent credit requirements for our customers and reduced access to capital. We continue to focus on remaining profitable in the current conditions, as well as being prepared for the possibility that recessionary trends may return in future periods.Seasonality. Regardless of the overall economic outlook domestically and globally, December, January and February typically reflect lower rental activity. In addition, because February is a short month, revenue billing in that month is reduced. The seasonal spending patterns of our customers are also affected by factors such as:•weather, holiday and vacation considerations; and•fiscal budgetary cycles.Other Factors. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation based on a wide variety of factors. Other factors that may affect our operating results from one quarter to another include:•changes in customer demands and/or requirements;changes in pricing or maintenance policies of equipment manufacturers; •price competition from other rental, leasing and finance companies;•the timing of new product announcements and launches;•changes in interest rates;•changes in product delivery dates;•currency fluctuations and other risks of international operations; and•changes and reductions to government spending that could negatively impact our customers in the aerospace and defense industry.All or any of these factors and similar factors could result in our operating results differing substantially from our expectations, as well as the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a material adverse impact on our stock price.RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TECHNOLOGY CHANGESWe serve customers that operate in industries that are characterized by technological change, and accordingly must anticipate and respond to changes in technology in order to maintain competitiveness and successful operations.Technological Advancements. We must anticipate and keep pace with the introduction of new hardware, software and networking technologies and acquire equipment that will be marketable to our current and prospective customers. The equipment that we acquire for our equipment pool can be subject to technological change, evolving customer demands and frequent new product announcements and enhancements. If we fail to adequately anticipate or adapt to new technological developments or to recognize changing market conditions, our operating results and stock price could be materially and adversely affected.Expenses Resulting from Technological Advancements. As a result of technology developments, we may have to make substantial and unanticipated expenditures to acquire new equipment or invest in further staff education on operating and servicing the equipment we deliver to our customers. Further, we may not adequately anticipate or respond successfully to technological changes for many reasons, including misjudging the impact of technological changes as well as financial, technological or other constraints. If we do not adequately anticipate or respond to changes in technological advancements or customer preferences, it would likely have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price.7Table of ContentsIntroduction of New Products and Services. The markets in which we operate are characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards and declining prices of certain products. Our operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to introduce new services and to control and/or reduce costs on existing services. Whether we succeed in our new offerings depends on several factors such as:•proper identification of customer needs;•appropriate control of costs;•timely completion and introduction of products and services as compared to our competitors;•our ability to differentiate our equipment and services from our competitors; and•appropriate pricing and market acceptance of our solutions.RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CUSTOMER SOLVENCYOur customers may face liquidity issues, and if we make poor credit decisions or are unable to collect on contracts with customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price.One of the reasons some of our customers find it more attractive to rent or lease electronic equipment instead of owning that equipment is because renting or leasing enables them to deploy their capital elsewhere. This can be particularly true in industries with high growth rates such as the telecommunications industry. However, some of our customers have liquidity issues, which have been compounded by the recent slowness in the global economy, and ultimately may not be able to fulfill the terms of their agreements with us. If we are not able to manage credit risk issues, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses would increase above historical levels and may become material. COMPETITIONIf we do not compete effectively, we may lose market share and our revenues and profitability may decline. The equipment rental, leasing and sales business is characterized by intense competition from several large competitors, some of which have access to greater financial and other resources than we do. We face competition from both established entities and new entries in the market. Our primary competitors in the North American T&M rental area include McGrath RentCorp, Continental Resources, Inc., Test Equity LLC and Microlease plc. Internationally, our largest competitors for rental business are Microlease plc and Livingston Group Ltd. in Europe. These entities also compete with us in leasing T&M equipment, as do banks, vendors and other financing sources. In addition, in equipment sale, we also compete with sales by our suppliers, including Keysight and Tektronix, and their other distributors. The market for the lease and rental of computers and servers is highly fragmented, and our principal competitors include SmartSource, Source One Rentals, Rentex and CRE Rentals. Our competitors engage in aggressive pricing for both rentals and sales. In order to maintain or increase our market share, we may choose, or be compelled, to lower our prices, resulting in decreased revenues and profitability, which could materially and adversely affect our stock price.RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONSOur international operations will continue to be a meaningful portion of our overall revenues and operations in the future. There are risks that are inherent to our international operations, and if we fail to manage them appropriately we may not meet our revenue expectations or may incur unanticipated expenses, either of which would adversely affect our operations.Currency Risks. We generated 15.5% of our revenues from activity in foreign countries during the past fiscal year. Our contracts to supply equipment outside of the U.S. are generally priced in local currency. However, our consolidated financial statements are prepared in U.S. dollars. Consequently, changes in exchange rates can unpredictably and adversely affect our consolidated operating results, and could result in exchange losses. Although we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the risks associated with fluctuations in exchange rates, we may not be able to eliminate or reduce the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price.Other Risks Associated with International Operations. Additionally, our financial results may be adversely affected by other international risks, such as:•international political and economic conditions;•changes in government regulation in various countries;8Table of Contents•trade barriers;•difficulty in staffing our foreign sales and service centers, and in training and retaining foreign employees;•issues relating to the repatriation of any profits;•adverse tax consequences; and•costs associated with expansion into new territories.We expect to continue our international operations and that the revenues we derive from these activities will continue to be a meaningful portion of our total revenues. If we do not anticipate and respond to the risks associated with international operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price.RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR MANUFACTURERS AND SUPPLIERSOur business is dependent on our ability to purchase equipment for our equipment pool from third party manufacturers and suppliers at prices and on terms that allow us to meet our customers’ requirements. Any significant change in availability, pricing or terms for equipment from our manufacturers could have a substantial impact on our results of operations. About 92% of our equipment portfolio at acquisition cost consists of general purpose T&M instruments purchased from leading manufacturers such as Keysight, Anritsu, and Tektronix. The remainder of our equipment pool consists of personal computers and workstations, which include personal computers from Dell, Apple, IBM and Toshiba and workstations primarily from HP/Compaq. We depend on these manufacturers and suppliers for our equipment. If, in the future, we are not able to purchase necessary equipment from one or more of these suppliers on favorable terms, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands in a timely manner or for a price that generates a profit. Depending on the equipment required, or the customer’s specific requirements, there may not be suitable alternatives from other suppliers. Any inability to acquire equipment would adversely impact our revenues. Similarly, if we cannot increase our pricing commensurate with pricing changes from our customers our gross profit and income from operations will be adversely impacted. If we are unable to renew our reseller agreement with Keysight when it expires on May 31, 2015 on acceptable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price.Sales of new T&M equipment represent approximately 63.5% and 66.8% of our sales of equipment and other revenues for fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. Nearly all of our sales of new T&M equipment are in connection with our reseller agreement with Keysight, which expires on May 31, 2015. Keysight is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent Technologies, Inc. (“Agilent”), with whom we originally entered into the reseller agreement. Agilent is currently in the process of spinning off Keysight into a separate publicly traded company, which Agilent has announced that it expects to complete by November 2014. We have renewed our reseller arrangement four times since we entered into the reseller agreement with Agilent in 2009. If we are unable to renew our reseller agreement with Keysight, or if the terms of any renewal are less favorable to us, our T&M equipment sales business may be materially and adversely affected. Agilent's planned spin-off of Keysight (which manufactures T&M equipment) could impact our relationship with Keysight.Agilent announced on September 19, 2013 that it plans to spin off its electronic measurement business (which manufactures the T&M equipment) into a separate company. Agilent is in the process of affecting the spin-off, and has assigned its rights to our reseller agreement to Keysight. Agilent has stated publicly that it expects to complete the spin-off by November, 2014. We do not know whether or how the spin-off will impact the renewal of our reseller agreement or other aspects of our relationship with Keysight. Sales of Keysight/Agilent T&M equipment constitutes a substantial portion of our overall revenues. Any material change in our relationship with Keysight, in Keysight’s sales strategy for T&M equipment, or our reseller agreement, may have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating prospects.DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNELIf we are unable to recruit and retain qualified personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price.Our success depends in large part on the continued services of our executive officers, our senior managers and other key personnel. Our executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, Daniel Greenberg, our President, Steven Markheim, and our Chief Financial Officer, Craig Jones, are each extremely experienced with a long history at the Company. The loss of any of these people could result in significant disruption to our operations. In addition, T&M equipment and solutions can be highly technical and complex, and typically require customizations to meet specific customer applications and needs. The 9Table of Contentsquality of our customer service and the knowledge of our personnel is a key competitive factor for our business. It is very important that we attract highly skilled personnel to accommodate growth and to replace personnel who leave. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, especially in technology industries, and there are a limited number of people with the requisite knowledge and experience to market, sell and service our equipment. We must retain and recruit qualified personnel in order to maintain and grow our business.CONTROL BY MANAGEMENT AND OTHERSSenior management has significant influence over our policies and affairs and may be in a position to determine the outcome of corporate actions.As of August 11, 2014, our executive officers and directors collectively owned approximately 21.2% of our Common Stock.As of that date, (i) Mr. Daniel Greenberg, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 19.1% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, and (ii) one other shareholder controlled 16.2% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock. As long as these shareholders own significant percentage of our Common Stock, they will be able to exert significant influence over our policies and affairs and may be in a position to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. These may include, for example, the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our corporate documents and the approval of mergers and sales of our assets.RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH POSSIBLE ACQUISITIONS AND NEW BUSINESS VENTURESIf we fail to accurately assess and successfully integrate any recent or future acquisitions or new business ventures, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits, which could result in lower revenues, unanticipated operating expenses, reduced profitability and dilution of our book value per share.On occasion, we evaluate business opportunities that appear to fit within our overall business strategy. We have completed the following acquisitions and business ventures in recent years:•In fiscal 2012, we acquired certain assets and select post-closing liabilities of EMT, a private company based in Las Vegas, Nevada, and a provider of electronic T&M equipment.•In fiscal 2010, we became a reseller of Agilent Technologies, Inc.’s (now Keysight Technologies, Inc.) new T&M equipment in the U.S. and Canada, resulting in the hiring of additional sales and support staff. We could decide to pursue one or more other opportunities by acquisition or internal development. Acquisitions and new business ventures, both domestic and foreign, involve many risks, including:•the difficulty of integrating acquired operations and personnel with our existing operations;•the difficulty of developing and marketing new products and services;•the diversion of our management’s attention as a result of evaluating, negotiating and integrating acquisitions or new business ventures;•our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and•the loss of key employees of an acquired operation.In addition, an acquisition or new business venture could adversely impact cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute shareholder interests, for many reasons, including:•charges to our income to reflect the impairment of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill;•interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition or new business venture; and•any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or new business venture that dilutes or lessens the rights of our current shareholders.We have implemented various new business ventures in the past, and not all of such ventures have been successful. The risks associated with acquisitions and new business ventures could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price.10Table of ContentsRISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FLUCTUATING INTEREST RATESInterest rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price.Our leasing yields tend to correlate with market interest rates. When interest rates are higher, our leasing terms incorporate a higher financing charge. However, in times of relatively lower interest rates our financing charges also decrease, and some of our customers choose to purchase new equipment, rather than leasing equipment at all. Lower leasing yields result in lower rental and lease revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price.RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CHANGES IN GOVERNMENT SPENDINGWe have customers in the aerospace and defense industry that derive a significant amount of revenue from the U.S. government. If the U.S. government were to substantially curtail spending for the aerospace and defense industry, it would have a significant negative effect on our revenues and profitability.The U.S. federal government has implemented significant changes and reductions to government spending and programs. In addition, uncertainty resulting from previously announced defense spending reductions and the potential future additional reductions have impacted, and are likely to continue to impact, the manner in which our customers in the aerospace and defense industry make procurement decisions, resulting in reduced demand by such customers in our rental services and resale business. A shift in government priorities to government programs in which our customers do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of government programs in which our customers do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on the demand of our services and products and, as a consequence, our revenues, operating results and stock price.ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONSThe anti-takeover provisions contained in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and in California law could materially and adversely impact the value of our Common Stock.Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, our Bylaws and California law could, together or separately, discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so might benefit our shareholders. This may adversely impact the interests of our shareholders with respect to a potential acquisition and may also affect the price investors would receive for their shares of Common Stock. Some examples of these provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws are:•the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with rights and privileges that are senior to the Common Stock, without prior shareholder approval; and•certain limitations of the rights of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders.Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments.None.