Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to certain risks, including the risks described below. This Item 1A does not describe all risks applicable to our business and is intended only as a summary of the most significant factors that affect our operations and the industries in which we operate. More detailed information concerning these and other risks is contained in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below, as well as the other risks that are generally set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K should take such risks into account in evaluating any investment decision involving our common stock. At any point, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors could lose all or a portion of their investment. Risks Related to Our Operations In addition to general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, which can change unexpectedly and generally affect U.S. businesses with worldwide operations, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that are specific to us or the businesses we operate: Decisions by our customers about the timing and scope of capital spending, particularly on major programs, can have a significant effect on our net sales and earnings. Each of our businesses is dependent on our customers’ capital spending decisions, which are affected by numerous factors, such as general economic conditions, end-user demand for their particular products, capital availability, and comparative anticipated returns on their capital investments. In addition, large defense programs are an important source of our current and anticipated future net sales, especially in D&S. Customer decisions as to the nature and timing of their capital spending, and developments affecting these large defense programs, can have a significant effect on us. Our net sales and earnings would decline in the event of general reductions in capital spending by our customers, or delay in the implementation of, or significant reduction in the scope of, any of the current or major anticipated programs in which we participate. Unfavorable economic or financial market conditions or other developments may affect the fair value of one or more of our business units and increase the potential for additional asset impairment charges that could adversely affect our earnings. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $60.3 million of goodwill and $49.3 million of other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet, collectively representing approximately 29% of our total assets. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter of the year. We are also required to test goodwill and other long-lived assets on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change which indicate that an asset might be impaired. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include a sustained, significant decline in our share price and market capitalization, a decline in expected future cash flows for one or more of our business units (including our recently acquired businesses), a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, unanticipated competition and/or slower-than-expected growth rates, among others. We 18 of 105 Table of Contents recognized an impairment loss on the goodwill of $19.9 million associated with our LXE business in 2009 (refer to Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information). Our tests in the fourth quarter of 2009 for Formation, Satamatics and Sky Connect did not indicate an impairment. However, the estimated fair values did not exceed the carrying amount by a significant amount. If we are required to recognize an additional impairment loss in the future related to goodwill or long-lived assets, the related charge, although a noncash charge, could materially reduce reported earnings or result in a loss from continuing operations for the period in which the impairment loss is recognized. If our commercial customers fail to find adequate funding for major potential programs, or our government customers do not receive necessary funding approvals, our net sales would decline. To proceed with major programs, such as upgrades for satellite data-communications systems, our customers typically must obtain substantial amounts of capital, from either governmental or private sources. The availability of this capital is directly affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by political developments and by conditions in the private capital markets, which at times in recent years have been very unstable. If adequate funds are not available to our targeted customers for these programs, our expected net sales may be adversely affected. Large defense programs are often funded in multiple phases, requiring periodic further funding approvals, which may be withheld for a variety of political, budgetary or technical reasons, including the effects of defense budget pressures on near-term spending priorities. Such multi-year programs can also be terminated or modified by the government in ways adverse to us and, in many cases, with limited notice and without penalty. These developments would reduce our net sales below the levels we would otherwise expect. We may encounter technical problems or contractual uncertainties, which can cause delays, added costs, lost sales and liability to customers. From time to time we have encountered technical difficulties that have caused delays and additional costs in our technology development efforts. We are particularly exposed to this risk in new product development efforts and in fixed-price contracts on technically advanced programs at D&S and Communications & Tracking that require novel approaches and solutions. In these cases, the additional costs that we incur may not be covered by revenue commitments from our customers, and therefore reduce our earnings. In addition, technical difficulties can cause us to miss expected delivery dates for new product offerings, which could cause customer orders to fall short of expectations. Some of our products perform mission-critical functions in space applications. If we experience technical problems and are unable to adhere to a customer’s schedule, the customer could experience costly launch delays or re-procurements from other vendors. The customer may then be contractually entitled to substantial financial damages from us. The customer would also be entitled to cancel future deliveries, which would reduce our future revenues and could make it impossible for us to recover our design, tooling or inventory costs, or our remaining commitments to third-party suppliers. Due to technological uncertainties in new or unproven applications of technology, our contracts may be broadly defined in their early stages, with a structure to accommodate future changes in the scope of work or contract value as technical development progresses. In such cases, management must evaluate these contract uncertainties and estimate the future expected levels of scope of work and likely contract-value changes to determine the appropriate level of revenue associated with costs incurred. Actual changes may vary from expected changes, resulting in a reduction of net sales and earnings recognized in future periods. 19 of 105 Table of Contents Our products are subject to a variety of certification requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), including stringent standards for performance, reliability and manufacturing processes. Our failure to meet any of these standards, which may involve complex testing and technical issues, could limit our ability to market these products and thereby reduce our sales and earnings. Our sales and earnings may also be adversely affected by the costs and delays associated with meeting these standards and obtaining the required certifications. Products that we sell for installation on aircraft must receive approvals and certifications from the FAA, and generally must be produced in facilities that are themselves FAA-certified. In addition, many of the products we sell require FCC approval or certification before our customers are permitted to use them. The applicable standards are rigorous, can be costly to meet, and must be met on a continuing basis. The approval and certification standards for our aviation products require that we meet standards for performance and reliability, as well as for the appropriateness of products for particular aircraft types, and our facilities must meet standards for consistent and reliable production processes. FCC certification of our products requires that we demonstrate technical performance in accordance with certain required RF characteristics. We have generally been successful in obtaining required product approvals and certifications, and the facilities in which we produce aviation products currently hold all required certifications. However, in the past we have addressed, or we currently are addressing, technical issues raised by the FAA and the FCC with respect to certain products, and such technical issues or changes in applicable standards could affect any of these certifications, or cause us to incur significant expense or delays in marketing our products. If we cannot continue to rapidly develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services that meet customer requirements for performance and reliability, we may incur development costs that we cannot recover and our net sales and earnings will suffer. The process of developing new wireless communications products is complex and uncertain, and failure to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately, or to develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property, could significantly harm our results of operations. In many instances we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our investments will eventually result in products that the market will accept. If our new products are not accepted by the market, our net sales and earnings will decline. Competing technology could be superior to ours, and could cause customer orders and net sales to decline. The markets in which we compete are very sensitive to technological advances. As a result, technological developments by competitors can cause our products to be less desirable to customers, or even to become obsolete. Those developments could cause our customer orders and net sales to decline. Our competitors’ marketing and pricing strategies could make their products more attractive than ours. This could cause reductions in customer orders or our profits. We operate in highly competitive technology markets, and some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and facilities than we do. As a result, our competition may be able to pursue aggressive marketing strategies, such as significant price discounting. These competitive activities could cause our customers to purchase our competitors’ products rather than ours, or cause us to increase marketing expenditures or reduce prices, in any such case, causing a reduction of net sales and earnings below expected levels. Our transitions to new product offerings can be costly and disruptive, and could adversely affect our net sales or profitability. Because our businesses involve constant efforts to improve existing technology, we regularly introduce new generations of products. During these transitions, customers may reduce purchases of older equipment more rapidly than we expect, or may choose not to migrate to our new products, which could result in lower net sales and excessive inventories. In addition, product transitions create uncertainty about both production costs and customer acceptance. These potential problems are generally more severe if our product introduction 20 of 105 Table of Contents schedule is delayed by technical development issues. These problems could cause our net sales or profitability to be less than expected. Our products may inadvertently infringe third-party patents, which could create substantial liability to our customers or the third-party patent owners. As we regularly develop and introduce new technology, we face risks that our new products or manufacturing techniques may infringe valid patents held, or currently being processed, by others. The earliest that the U.S. Patent Office publishes patents is 18 months after their initial filing, and exceptions exist so that some applications are not published before they issue as patents. Thus, we may be unaware of a pending patent until well after we have introduced an infringing product. In addition, questions of whether a particular product infringes a particular patent can involve significant uncertainty. As a result of these factors, third-party patents may require us to redesign our products and to incur both added expense and delays that interfere with marketing plans. We may also be required to make significant expenditures from time to time to defend or pay damages or royalties on infringement claims, or to respond to customer indemnification claims relating to third-party patents. Such costs could reduce our earnings. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property. Our unique intellectual property is a critical resource in our efforts to produce and market technically advanced products. We primarily seek to protect our intellectual property, including product designs and manufacturing processes, through patents and as trade secrets. If we are unable to obtain enforceable patents on certain technologies, or if information we protect as trade secrets becomes known to our competitors, then competitors may be able to copy or otherwise appropriate our technology, we would lose competitive advantages, and our net sales and operating income could decline. In any event, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have a material adverse effect on our operations regardless of the outcome of the litigation. We may also enter into transactions in countries where intellectual property laws are not well developed and legal protection of our rights may be ineffective. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain a highly skilled workforce. Because our products and programs are technically sophisticated, we must attract and retain employees with advanced technical and program-management skills. Many of our senior management personnel also possess advanced knowledge of the business in which we operate and are otherwise important to our success. Other employers also often recruit persons with these skills, both generally and in focused engineering fields. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees and senior management, our performance obligations to our customers could be affected and our net sales could decline. We depend on highly skilled suppliers, who may become unavailable or fail to achieve desired levels of technical performance. In addition to our requirements for basic materials and electronic components, our advanced technological products often require sophisticated subsystems supplied or cooperatively developed by third parties. To meet those requirements, our suppliers must have specialized expertise, production skills and economies of scale, and in some cases there are only a limited number of qualified potential suppliers. Our ability to perform according to customer contract requirements, or to introduce new products on the desired schedule, can be heavily dependent on our ability to identify and engage appropriate suppliers, and on the effectiveness of those suppliers in meeting our development and delivery objectives. If these highly skilled suppliers are unavailable when needed, or fail to perform as expected, our ability to meet our performance obligations to our customers could be affected and our net sales and earnings could decline. 21 of 105 Table of Contents Changes in regulations that limit the availability of licenses or otherwise result in increased expenses could cause our net sales or earnings to decline. Many of our products are incorporated into wireless communications systems that are regulated in the U.S. by the Federal Communications Commission and internationally by other government agencies. Changes in government regulations could reduce the growth potential of our markets by limiting either the access to or availability of frequency spectrum. In addition, other changes in government regulations could make the competitive environment more difficult by increasing costs or inhibiting our customers’ efforts to develop or introduce new technologies and products. Also, changes in government regulations could substantially increase the difficulty and cost of compliance with government regulations for both our customers and us. All of these factors could result in reductions in our net sales and earnings. Additional environmental regulation could increase costs and adversely affect our future earnings. Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of a large amount of international, national, regional, state and local attention. Any enactment of cap-and-trade proposals would likely increase the cost of energy, including purchases of electricity, and of certain raw materials used by us. In addition, future environmental regulatory developments related to climate change, whether pursuant to future treaty obligations or statutory or regulatory changes, are possible, and could increase our operating, manufacturing and delivery costs. The export license process for space products is uncertain, increasing the chance that we may not obtain required export licenses in a timely or cost-effective manner. Our products for use on commercial satellites are included on the U.S. Munitions List of the U.S. International Traffic in Arms Regulations and are subject to U.S. State Department licensing requirements. The licensing process for our products for use on commercial satellite and many of our other products is time-consuming, and political considerations can increase the time and difficulty of obtaining licenses for export of technically advanced products. The license process may prevent particular sales, and generally has created schedule uncertainties that encourage foreign customers, such as those in Western Europe, to develop internal or other foreign sources rather than use U.S. suppliers. If we are unable to obtain required export licenses when we expect them or at the costs we expect, our net sales and earnings could be adversely affected. Export controls on space technology restrict our ability to hold technical discussions with foreign customers, suppliers and internal engineering resources, which reduces our ability to obtain sales from foreign customers or to perform contracts with the desired level of efficiency or profitability. U.S. export controls severely limit unlicensed technical discussions with any persons who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents. As a result, we are restricted in our ability to hold technical discussions between U.S. personnel and current or prospective customers or suppliers outside the U.S., between Canadian personnel and current or prospective U.S. customers or suppliers, and between U.S. employees and our other employees outside the U.S. These restrictions reduce our ability to win cross-border space work, to utilize cross-border supply sources, and to deploy technical expertise in the most effective manner. Economic or political conditions in other countries could cause our net sales or earnings to decline. International sales significantly affect our financial performance. Approximately $107.2 million, $132.5 million and $111.7 million, or 29.8%, 39.6% and 38.8% of our net sales for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, were derived from customers residing outside of the U.S. Adverse economic conditions in our customers’ countries, mainly in Western Europe, Latin America and the Pacific Rim, have affected us in the past, and could adversely affect future international revenues in all of our businesses, especially LXE. Unfavorable currency exchange rate movements can adversely affect the marketability of our products by increasing the local-currency cost. In addition to these economic factors directly related to our markets, there are risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business internationally that could have an adverse effect on us, such as potential adverse effects of political instability or changes in governments, changes in foreign income tax laws, 22 of 105 Table of Contents and restrictions on funds transfers by us or our customers, as well as unfavorable changes in laws and regulations governing a broad range of business concerns, including proprietary rights, legal liability, and employee relations. All of these factors could cause significant harm to our net sales or earnings. Unfavorable currency exchange rate movements could result in foreign exchange losses and cause our earnings to decline. We have international operations, and we use forward currency contracts to reduce the earnings risk from holding certain assets and liabilities denominated in different currencies, but we cannot entirely eliminate those risks. In addition, Canada-based SATCOM derives a major portion of its sales from agreements in U.S. dollars; but its costs are predominately in Canadian dollars; as a result, a stronger Canadian dollar would increase our costs relative to our U.S. net sales, and we are unlikely to recover these increased costs through higher U.S. dollar prices due to competitive conditions. As a result of these factors, our financial results will continue to have an element of risk related to foreign currency exchange rates. Our net sales in certain markets depend on the availability and performance of other companies with which we have marketing relationships. With respect to some applications, including mobile satellite communications, we seek to develop marketing relationships with other companies that have superior direct customer access from advantages such as specialized software and established customer service systems. For example, the marketing of our line of high-speed commercial airline communications products is dependent on the success of our direct customers in the sale of our products as a complementary offering with their own lines of avionics products. In other markets, such as wireless local-area networks, a major element of our distribution channels is a network of value-added retailers and independent distributors. In foreign markets for many of our products, we are often dependent on successful working relationships with local distributors and other business personnel. If we are unable to identify and structure effective relationships with other companies that are able to market our products, our net sales could fail to grow in the ways we expect. Customer orders in backlog may not result in sales. Our order backlog represents firm orders for products and services. However, our customers may cancel or defer orders for products and services, in most cases without penalty. Cancellation or deferral of an order in our D&S segment typically involves penalties and termination charges for costs incurred to date, but these termination penalties would still be considerably less than what we would have expected to earn if the order could have been completed. We make management decisions based on our backlog, including hiring of personnel, purchasing of materials, and other matters that may increase our production capabilities and costs whether or not the backlog is converted into revenue. Cancellations, delays or reductions of orders could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could cause our earnings to decline. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of up to 60 days in the U.S. and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the U.S. In the past, certain of our customers have experienced credit problems, up to and including bankruptcy. Although any resulting loss has not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the degree that the recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, our customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 23 of 105 Table of Contents Our products typically carry warranties, and the costs to us to repair or replace defective products could exceed the amounts we have experienced historically. Most of our products carry basic warranties of between one and five years, depending on the type of product. For certain products, customers can purchase warranty coverage for specified additional periods. If our products are returned for repair or replacement under warranty or otherwise under circumstances in which we assume responsibility, particularly if at a higher rate than we expect based on historical experience, we can incur significant costs that may be in excess of the allowances that we have established based on our historical warranty cost levels, which would reduce our earnings. Changes in our consolidated effective income tax rate and the related effect on our results can be difficult to predict. We earn taxable income in various tax jurisdictions around the world. The rates of income tax that we pay can vary significantly by jurisdiction, due to differing income tax rates and benefits that may be available in some jurisdictions and not in others. In particular, our earnings in Canada are subject to very low income taxes due to research-related tax incentives. As a result, our overall effective income tax rate depends upon the relative annual income that we earn in each of the tax jurisdictions where we do business, and the rate reported in our quarterly financial results depends on our expectations for such relative earnings for the balance of the year. Thus, even though our actual or expected consolidated earnings before taxes could remain unchanged, our income tax expenses and net earnings may still increase or decrease, depending upon changes in the jurisdictions in which we have generated or expect to generate those earnings. We may not effectively manage possible future growth, which could result in reduced earnings. Historically, we have experienced broad fluctuations in demand for our products and services. These changes in demand have depended on many factors and have been difficult to predict. In recent years, there has also been an increasing complexity in the technologies and applications in certain of our businesses. These changes in our businesses place significant demands on both our management personnel and our management systems for information, planning and control. If we are to achieve further strong growth on a profitable basis, our management must identify and exploit potential market opportunities for our products and technologies, while continuing to manage our current businesses effectively. Furthermore, our management systems must support the changes to our operations resulting from our business growth. If our management and management systems fail to meet these challenges, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. We may make acquisitions and investments that could adversely affect our earnings or otherwise fail to perform as expected. To support growth, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies that could complement or expand our businesses. However, if we should be unable to successfully negotiate with a potential acquisition candidate, finance the acquisition, or effectively integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and products, our net sales and earnings could be adversely affected. Furthermore, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or the risk of unknown liabilities, or we may incur amortization expenses or write-downs of acquired assets as a result of future acquisitions, all of which could cause our earnings or earnings per share to decline. In addition, under newly adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141(R), Business Combinations, which is now included in the FASB Accounting Standards Codificationtm (“ASC”) Topic 805, effective for us for business combinations completed after January 1, 2009, we are required to record certain acquisition-related costs and other items as current period expenses, reducing our reported earnings in the period in which an acquisition is consummated, and to reflect post-closing changes in the fair value of contingent consideration as a charge (or credit) to reported earnings. We also may acquire businesses that do not perform as we expect, are subject to undisclosed or unanticipated liabilities, or are otherwise dilutive to our earnings. 24 of 105 Table of Contents We have residual liabilities under the terms of our sales of discontinued businesses. We have reserved amounts we believe to be adequate to cover our potential liabilities that we consider probable and estimable on actual claims asserted under warranties and representations that we made in connection with our prior dispositions of discontinued operations. However, payment of such contingent liabilities would decrease our cash, and if the final resolution of such liabilities exceeded our reserves, our results of discontinued operations would also be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Common Stock In addition to risks and uncertainties related to our operations, there are investment risks that could adversely affect the return to an investor in our common stock and could adversely affect our ability to raise capital for financing future operations. Our quarterly results are volatile and difficult to predict. If our quarterly performance results fall short of market expectations, the market value of our shares is likely to decline. The quarterly net sales and earnings contributions of some of our segments are heavily dependent on customer orders or product shipments in the final weeks or days of the quarter. Due to some of the risks related to our business discussed above, it can be difficult for us to predict the timing of receipt of major customer orders, and we are unable to control timing decisions made by our customers. This can create volatility in quarterly results, and hinders our ability to determine before the end of each quarter whether quarterly earnings will meet prevailing expectations. The market price for our shares is likely to be adversely affected by quarterly earnings results that are below analyst and market expectations. Our share price may fluctuate significantly, and an investor may not be able to sell our shares at a price that would yield a favorable return on investment. The market price of our stock will fluctuate in the future, and such fluctuations could be substantial. Price fluctuations may occur in response to a variety of factors, including: • actual or anticipated operating results; • the limited average trading volume and public float for our stock, which means that orders from a relatively few investors can significantly impact the price of our stock, independently of our operating results, • announcements of technological innovations, new products or new contracts by us, our customers, our competitors or our customers’ competitors; • government regulatory action; • developments with respect to wireless and satellite communications; and • general market conditions. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the stocks of technology companies, and that have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our outstanding shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration, and shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of stock options will also be freely tradable upon issuance, in each case unless held by affiliates. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our shareholders, including those who have acquired a significant number of shares in connection with business acquisitions or private investments, or even the potential for such sales, may depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. 25 of 105 Table of Contents Provisions in our governing documents and law could prevent or delay a change of control not supported by our Board of Directors. Our shareholder rights plan and provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. These documents include provisions that: • allow our shareholders the right to acquire common stock from us at discounted prices in the event a person acquires 20% or more of our common stock, or announces an attempt to do so, without our Board of Directors’ prior consent; • authorize the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock by our Board of Directors without shareholder approval, which stock could have terms that could discourage or thwart a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of shareholders; • require unanimous written consent for shareholder action without a meeting; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at shareholder meetings; • adopt the fair price requirements and rules regarding business combinations with interested shareholders set forth in Article 11, Parts 2 and 3 of the Georgia Business Corporation Code; and • require approval by the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding common stock to amend any of the foregoing provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 