Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider these risk factors in addition to those set forth in our financial statements or the notes thereto. Additional risks about which we do not yet know or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business operations. If any of the following occur, our business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. In that case, the price of our common stock may decline. Business Related Risks If we are unable to resist price increases from our suppliers or pass through such increases to our customers, our profit margins will shrink or be eliminated entirely. Substantially all of our products are purchased from suppliers with factories located in the People’s Republic of China (“China”). The weakness of the United States dollar in relationship to the Chinese currency has increased substantially the cost of the products we purchase from such suppliers. These suppliers also have experienced sharply rising costs attributable to, among other things, substantially increased raw material costs, general economic conditions and changes in certain labor, public health and tax regulations in China. As a consequence, many of our suppliers have proposed substantial price increases for the products we purchase from them. We are resisting such increases and, at the same time, proposing higher product sale prices to our customers, the most substantial of which are among the largest retail chains in the country. These customers have strongly resisted accepting our proposed increased pricing given the recent decline in economic conditions in the United States and the fear that higher prices will drive away their already fragile customer bases. The pricing situation with our suppliers and customers is unclear and there can be no assurance that we will be able to work out an acceptable solution. In addition, if we are unable to negotiate lower costs with our suppliers, higher prices from our customers or some combination of the two, our sales likely will decline, our profit margins will shrink and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. The majority ownership of our common stock by subsidiaries of The Grande Holdings Limited, a Hong Kong based group of companies, substantially reduces the influence of other stockholders. The Grande Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Grande”) own approximately 57.6% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2008. As a result, Grande currently controls or influences significantly the approval process for actions that require stockholder approval, including: the election of our directors and the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other significant corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. Because of Grande’s ownership position, other stockholders have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. 13 A number of our directors and senior executive officers also are managing directors or senior officers of Grande and have loyalties and fiduciary obligations to both Grande and Emerson; those dual positions subject such persons to conflicts of interest in related party transactions which may cause such related party transactions to have consequences to us that are less favorable than those which we could have attained in comparable transactions with unaffiliated entities.. Each of Christopher Ho, our Chairman of the Board, Adrian Ma, our Chief Executive Officer and Michael A.B. Binney, a director, is a Managing Director of Grande. In addition, Messrs. Ho and Ma serve, respectively, as the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Grande. These relationships create, or, at a minimum, appear to create potential conflicts of interest when members of our senior management are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and Grande. As described in Note 3 to our financial statements and in our previous filings with the SEC, there have been a number of related party transactions between us and Grande which have been viewed as possibly problematic. In addition, Grande has failed to pay, on a timely basis, amounts due and payable to us in connection with our related party transactions. Although Grande currently does not owe us any amounts under our existing related party transactions, we cannot assure you that Grande, in the future, will pay any amounts that become due and payable to us under our existing or future related party transactions on a timely basis or at all. Although we have established procedures designed to insure that future material related party transactions are fair to us, no assurance can be given as to how potentially conflicted board members or officers will evaluate their fiduciary duties to us and Grande, respectively, or how such individuals will act in such circumstances. Furthermore, the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts ultimately do not harm us, might adversely affect the public’s perception of Emerson, as well as our relationship with our existing customers, licensors and licensees and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future. Although our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f), was effective as of March 31, 2008, we have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. If we are unable to maintain appropriate internal controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations on a timely basis, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, limit our access to credit facilities necessary to fund our operations, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in the our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. We maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Based on our evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under the framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the 14 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of March 31, 2008. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and management and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. As previously disclosed under Item 9A — “Controls and Procedures” of our Annual Report Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 (the “2007 Annual Report”), certain events in fiscal 2007 revealed material weaknesses in our internal controls. As previously disclosed, as part of our efforts to remedy such material weaknesses, in December 2007, our Board of Directors adopted a series of corporate governance and control policies and procedures that were recommended by our Audit Committee. Our Audit Committee continues to assign the highest priority to the improvement of our internal controls over financial reporting and has taken, and will continue to take, action in furtherance of such improvement and in response to the events described under Item 9A — “Controls and Procedures” of the 2007 Annual Report. We cannot assure you that such remediation efforts will be effective to prevent events or actions which are inconsistent with our internal controls or that it will not, in the future, identify further areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting or that our internal controls will not be circumvented. If we are unable to maintain appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures or if such controls and procedures are not complied with, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, limit our access to credit facilities necessary to fund our operations, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock The loss or significant reduction in business of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, Target, and Kmart, could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We are highly dependent upon sales of our products to Wal-Mart, Target and Kmart. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, Wal-Mart represented approximately 35% and 30%, respectively, Target stores accounted for approximately 24% and 21%, respectively, and Kmart stores represented approximately 7% and 6%, respectively, of our net revenues. Except for non-recurring promotional item sales to ESI International in fiscal 2007, which were 12% of net revenues, no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues during these periods. All customer purchases are made through purchase orders and we do not have any long-term contracts with customers. The complete loss of, or significant reduction in business from, or a material adverse change in the financial condition of, Wal-Mart, Target or Kmart will cause a material and adverse change in our revenues and operating results. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our products. The inability to secure our products could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationship with our customers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for our component parts and raw materials, most of which are located outside of the United States. Although there are many suppliers for each of our component parts and raw materials, we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for many of 15 the significant components and raw materials. This reliance involves a number of significant potential risks, including: • lack of availability of materials and interruptions in delivery of components and raw materials from our suppliers; • manufacturing delays caused by such lack of availability or interruptions in delivery; • fluctuations in the quality and the price of components and raw materials, in particular due to the petroleum price impact on such materials; and • risks related to foreign operations. We do not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of our suppliers. Galanz, Midea and Lasco Industries were our largest suppliers of our products during fiscal 2008, each of which accounted for more than 10% of our purchases of products for our latest fiscal year. Lasco Industries has closed its manufacturing operations in China and is not expected to reopen. Our failure to maintain existing relationships with our suppliers or to establish new relationships in the future could negatively affect our ability to obtain our products in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain ample supply of product from our existing suppliers or alternative sources of supply, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ orders, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. If our contract manufacturers are unable to deliver our products in the required amounts and in a timely fashion, we could experience delays or reductions in shipments to our customers which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. Unanticipated disruptions in our operations, slowdowns or shutdowns by our suppliers, manufacturers and shipping companies could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products and service our customers which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. All of our products are manufactured in accordance with our specifications by factories principally located in China. If we are unable to obtain our products from these factories in the required quantities and quality and in a timely fashion, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments to our customers which could negatively affect our ability to meet the requirements of our customers, as well as our relationships with our customers, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Our ability to provide high quality customer service, process and fulfill orders and manage inventory depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our distribution centers and the timely and uninterrupted performance of third party manufacturers and suppliers, shipping companies and dock workers. Any material disruption, slowdown or shutdown of the operation of our call center, distribution centers, manufacturing facilities or management information systems, or comparable disruptions, slowdowns or shutdowns suffered by our principal manufacturers, suppliers and shippers could cause delays in our ability to receive, process and fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused. As a result, our revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Substantially all of our suppliers are located in China. Inadequate development and maintenance of infrastructure in China, including inadequate power and water supplies, transportation and raw materials availability, and the deterioration in the general political, economic and social environments in China may make it difficult, more expensive and possibly prohibitive for these suppliers to continue to operate in China. During our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, two of our suppliers (including one of our primary suppliers) located in China closed their facilities, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to find suitable replacements for such suppliers. In addition, although we have implemented procedures to recertify all of our existing and future suppliers and manufacturers of our products, there can be no assurance that our recertification procedures are adequate or that any of our recertified suppliers and manufacturers will not close their facilities. If we cannot find suitable replacements for any manufacturers that have or may in the future close their facilities, our revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. The failure to maintain our relationships with our licensees, licensors and distributors or the failure to obtain new licensees, licensors or distribution relationships could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We maintain agreements that allow licensees to use our Emerson® trademark for the manufacture and sale of specific consumer electronics and other products. In addition, we maintain agreements for the distribution of products bearing our brands, into defined geographic areas. Although we have entered into agreements with certain of our licensees and distributors of our products, most have terms of three years or less, including our agreement with Funai which expires in December 2010 unless renewed. We cannot assure that such agreements will be renewed or that our relationships with our licensees or distributors will be maintained on satisfactory terms or at all. The failure to maintain our relationships with Funai and our other licensees and distributors on terms satisfactory to us, the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships or the failure by our licensees to protect the integrity and reputation of our Emerson® trademark could materially and adversely affect our licensing revenues and our earnings. We also are parties to license agreements with Mattel pursuant to which we license the Barbie™ and HotWheels™ names, trademarks and logos. The license agreement pursuant to which we produce and sell a line of Barbie ™ Real Electronics expires in December 2009, and the license agreement pursuant to which we produce and sell a line of Hot Wheels products, expires in December 2010. We may not be able to maintain or extend such relationships which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary rights. We own the Emerson® trademark, which is materially important to our business, as well as other trademarks, a patent, licenses and proprietary rights that are used for certain of our home entertainment and consumer electronics products. Our trademarks are registered throughout the world, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, France, Spain, Germany, China, Japan, India and the United Kingdom. We also have two patents in the United States on our SmartSet® technology, one of which expires in May 2020 and the other of which expires in April 2025. The laws of some foreign countries in which we operate may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do 17 laws in the United States. The protections afforded by the laws of such countries may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any trademarks, patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us. In addition, in the event third party licensees fail to protect the integrity of our trademarks, the value of these marks could be materially and adversely affected. Our inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially and adversely affect the license of our trade names, trademarks and patents to third parties as well as our ability to sell our products. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets; and determine the scope and validity of such intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention from the operation of our business. We believe that a third party currently is selling products that include our patented SmartSet® technology. Accordingly, in July 2008, we demanded that such third party cease and desist further sales of any and all products that include our patented technology. We cannot assure you, however, that such third party will discontinue its sales of such products in accordance with our demand; that such third party will not seek to challenge our patents; or that we would prevail in any such challenge. We may receive notices of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Such actions could result in litigation and we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending such claims. The party making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief. Such relief could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute or market our products and services in such jurisdiction. We may also be required to seek licenses to such intellectual property. We cannot predict, however, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, that such licenses could be obtained on terms that are commercially reasonable and acceptable to us. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could delay or preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products and could result in increased costs to us. Our revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot anticipate market trends or enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products. Our success is dependent on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands and trends in a timely manner, as well as expanding into new markets and developing new products. In addition, to increase our penetration of current markets and gain footholds in new markets for our products, we must maintain our existing products and integrate them with new products. We may not be successful in developing, marketing and releasing new products that respond to technological developments or changing customer needs and preferences. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of these new products. These new products may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If release dates of any future products or enhancements to our products are delayed, or if these products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance when released, our sales volume may decline and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, new products or enhancements by our competitors may cause customers to defer or forgo purchases of our products, which could also materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. 18 Foreign regulations and changes in the political, public health and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we operate our business could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales of products manufactured by third parties located primarily in China. In addition, third parties located in China and other countries located in the same region produce and supply many of the components and raw materials used in our products. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks that could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and could subject us to increased costs. Among the factors that may adversely affect our revenues and increase our costs are: • currency fluctuations which could cause an increase in the price of the components and raw materials used in our products and a decrease in our profits; • Chinese labor laws; • labor shortages in manufacturing facilities located in China, including the short-term labor shortage in manufacturing facilities caused by migrant workers seeking employment opportunities created by the 2008 Summer Olympics to be held in Beijing; • the elimination or reduction of value-added tax refunds to Chinese factories that manufacture products for export; • the rise of inflation and substantial economic growth in China; • more stringent export restrictions in the countries in which we operate which could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products to our customers; • tariffs and other trade barriers which could make it more expensive for us to obtain and deliver our products to our customers; • political instability and economic downturns in these countries which could adversely affect our ability to obtain our products from our manufacturers or deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion; • seasonal reductions in business activity in these countries during the summer months which could adversely affect our sales; and • new restrictions on the sale of electronic products containing certain hazardous substances. Any of factors described above may materially and adversely affect our revenues and/or increase our operating expenses. In fact, we recently have experienced, and may continue to experience, the consequences of these risks taking place. 19 The inability to use our tax net operating losses could result in a charge to earnings and could require us to pay higher taxes. We have substantial tax net operating losses available to reduce taxable income for federal and state income tax purposes. A portion of the benefit associated with the tax net operating losses has been recognized as a deferred tax asset in our financial statements and could be used to reduce our tax liability in future profitable periods. We believe these net deferred tax assets will be realized through tax planning strategies available in future periods and future profitable operating results. Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that most of the remaining net deferred tax assets will be realized prior to expiration, and we have increased our valuation allowance for the balance. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be reduced or eliminated in the near term if certain tax planning strategies are not successfully executed, or estimates of future taxable income during the carry-forward period is reduced. We are subject to intense competition in the industry in which we operate, which could cause material reductions in the selling price of our products or losses of our market share. The consumer electronics industry is highly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new products and features. Our products compete in the low to medium-priced sector of the consumer electronics market and compete primarily on the basis of reliability, brand recognition, quality, price, design, consumer acceptance of the Emerson® trademark and quality service and support to retailers and our customers. In recent years, we and many of our competitors, have regularly lowered prices, and we expect these pricing pressures to continue. If these pricing pressures are not mitigated by increases in volume, cost reductions from our suppliers or changes in product mix, our revenues and profits could be substantially reduced. As compared to us, many of our competitors have significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources and greater brand recognition. As a result, our competitors may be able to (i) adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; (ii) devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services; and (iii) respond more effectively to pricing pressures. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market, existing competitors expand their product mix or we expand into new markets. An increase in competition could result in material price reductions or loss of our market share. The seasonality of our business, changes in consumer spending and economic conditions may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Our net revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may adversely affect our results of operations and the market price for our common stock. Factors that may cause these fluctuations include: • seasonal variations in operating results; • changes in market and economic conditions; 20 • the discretionary nature of consumers’ demands and spending patterns; • variations in the sales of our products to our significant customers; • increases in returned consumer electronics products in the March quarter which follows our peak September and December selling quarters; • variations in manufacturing and supplier relationships; • if we are unable to correctly anticipate and provide for inventory requirements from quarter to quarter, we may not have sufficient inventory to deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion or we may have excess inventory that we are unable to sell; • new product developments or introductions; • product reviews and other media coverage; • competition, including competitive price pressures; and • political instability, war, acts of terrorism or other disasters. If our sales during the holiday season fall below our expectations, our operating results also could fall below expectations. Sales of our products are somewhat seasonal due to consumer spending patterns, which tend to result in significantly stronger sales in our September and December fiscal quarters, especially as a result of the holiday season. This pattern probably will not change significantly in the future. If the economy faltered in these periods, if our customers altered the timing or frequency of their promotional activities or if the effectiveness of these promotional activities declined, particularly around the holiday season, annual operating results could be materially adversely effected. Due to the seasonality of our business, our results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of our results for the year. If our third party sales representatives fail to adequately promote, market and sell our products, our revenues could significantly decrease. A significant portion of our product sales are made through third party sales representative organizations, whose members are not our employees. Our level of sales depends on the effectiveness of these organizations, as well as the effectiveness of our own employees. Some of these third party representatives may sell (and do sell), with our permission, competitive products of third parties as well as our products. During our fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, these organizations were responsible for approximately 57% and 50%, respectively, of our net revenues during such periods. In addition, two of these representative organizations were responsible for a significant portion of these revenues. If any of our third party sales representative organizations engaged by us, especially our two largest, fails to adequately promote, market and sell our products, our revenues could be significantly decreased until a replacement organization or distributor could be retained by 21 us. Finding replacement organizations and distributors could be a time consuming process during which our revenues could be negatively impacted. We could be exposed to product liability or other claims for which our product liability or other insurance may be inadequate. A failure of any of the products marketed by us may subject us to the risk of product liability claims and litigation arising from injuries allegedly caused by the improper functioning or design of our products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance in amounts which we consider adequate, we cannot assure that: • our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities; • adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or • our insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms. Although we maintain liability insurance in amounts that we consider adequate, we cannot assure that such policies will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. To the extent product liability or other litigation losses are beyond the limits or scope of our insurance coverage, our expenses could materially increase. A decline in the value of the auction rate securities included in our investments could materially adversely affect our liquidity. Our investments include auction rate securities, with estimated fair value of $11.9 million at March 31, 2008. Auction rate securities are securities with short-term interest rate reset dates of generally less than ninety days but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. At the end of each reset period, investors typically can sell at auction or continue to hold the securities. These securities are subject to fluctuations in fair value depending on the supply and demand at each auction. Our auction rate securities consist of interests in pools of student loan receivables issued by agencies established by counties, cities, states and other municipal entities. Liquidity for our auction rate securities typically is provided by an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate every 7 to 35 days. In early February 2008, our auction rate securities failed to sell at auction due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. Later in February and again in March 2008, we received approximately $1.1 million in partial calls of our auction rate securities. During 2008, the funds associated with our auction rate securities that have failed auction, may not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the security is called or the underlying securities have matured. As a result of the recent instability in the market for auction rate securities, there may be a future decline in the value of our auction rate securities. A decline in the value of these securities that is not temporary could materially adversely affect our liquidity and income. We may seek to make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our management’s attention and our capital resources. We may seek to grow our business through the acquisition of related businesses. Such acquisitions present risks that could materially adversely affect our earnings, including: 22 • the diversion of our management’s attention from our everyday business activities; • the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; • the incurring of additional expenses related to such acquisitions, whether or not such acquisitions are consummated; • the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business; and • the need to expand management, administration and operational systems. If we make such acquisitions, we cannot predict whether: • we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any new businesses into our business; • we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or • if there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in: • potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; • the incurrence of additional debt; and • the recognition of significant charges for impairment and amortization expense related to goodwill and other intangible assets. We continuously evaluate potential acquisitions of related businesses. However, competition for such potential acquisitions is intense and we have not reached any agreement or arrangement with respect to any particular acquisition and we may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Any substantial indebtedness we incur from time to time may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funds and may increase our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. From time to time we may incur substantial debt in connection with our operations. As a result, we may be subject to the risks associated with indebtedness, including: • because we would need to dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to pay debt service costs, we would have less funds available for operations and other purposes; • it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financings, if such funds are available at all; 23 • we would be more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and • if we were to default under any of our existing credit facilities or if our creditors were to demand payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure our borrowings under our credit facilities and are subject to covenants that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Our indebtedness under our credit facilities is secured by substantially all of our assets. If we default under the indebtedness secured by our assets, those assets would be available to the secured creditor to satisfy our obligations to the secured creditor. In addition, our credit facilities impose certain restrictive covenants, including financial, ownership, operational and net worth covenants. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could result in all or any of the following: • acceleration of the payment of our outstanding indebtedness; • our inability to borrow additional amounts under our existing financing arrangements; and • our inability to secure financing on favorable terms or at all from alternative sources. Any of these consequences could significantly reduce the amount of cash and financing available to us which in turn would adversely affect our ability to operate our business, including acquiring our products from our manufacturers and distributing our products to our customers. Market Related Risks The market price of our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations from time to time. The market price for our common stock and for securities of similar companies has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Factors which may affect our market price include: • market conditions in the industries in which we operate; • competition; • sales or the possibility of sales of our common stock; • our results of operations and financial condition; and • general economic conditions. 24 Furthermore, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Grande’s controlling interest in our common stock as well as our organizational documents and Delaware law make it difficult for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of Grande, our board of directors and management. Grande’s controlling interest in our shares as well as several provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. If our common stock is de-listed from the American Stock Exchange, shareholders liquidity in their shares may be adversely affected and shareholders may have difficulty selling their shares or attaining a satisfactory price. In order for our common stock to be eligible to continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange, we must meet the current American Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, including satisfying the Audit Committee composition requirements and the timely filing of periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, because we are a “controlled company” under the rules of the American Stock Exchange, we are not required to comply with the rules relating to independent directors, board nominations and executive compensation. During fiscal 2007, we failed to timely file our report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2006. We also have received notices from the American Stock Exchange in the past for failure to meet certain continued listing requirements. If we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, our common stock could be de-listed from the American Stock Exchange. If our common stock were to be de-listed from the American Stock Exchange, our common stock could continue to trade on the National Association of Securities Dealers’ over-the-counter bulletin board or on the Pink Sheets, as the case may be. Any such de-listing of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for our common stock, in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price and through delays in the timing of transactions and less coverage of us by securities analysts, if any. It also could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the public or private equity markets if we were to determine that we need to seek additional equity capital in the future. 25 Forward-Looking Information This report contains forward looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 under Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include statements with respect to our beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, and future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond our control, and which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements through our use of words such as “may,” “will,” “can,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “should,” “indicate,” “would,” “believe,” “contemplate,” “expect,” “seek,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “could,” “intend,” “target,” “potential,” and other similar words and expressions of the future. These forward-looking statements may not be realized due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation: • the loss of any of our key customers or reduction in the purchase of our products by any such customers; • our inability to improve and maintain effective internal controls or the failure by our personnel to comply with such internal controls; • the failure to maintain our relationships with our licensees and distributors or the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships on favorable terms; • our inability to anticipate market trends, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products; • our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for our components and raw materials; • our dependence on third party manufacturers to manufacture and deliver our products; • the seasonality of our business, as well as changes in consumer spending and economic conditions; • the failure of third party sales representatives to adequately promote, market and sell our products; • our inability to protect our intellectual property; • the effects of competition; 26 • changes in foreign laws and regulations and changes in the political and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we operate; • conflicts of interest that exist based on our relationship with Grande; • changes in accounting policies, rules and practices; and • the other factors listed under “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary notice. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report or the date of the document incorporated by reference into this annual report. We have no obligation, and expressly disclaim any obligation, to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We have expressed our expectations, beliefs and projections in good faith and we believe they have a reasonable basis. However, we cannot assure you that our expectations, beliefs or projections will result or be achieved or accomplished. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 