RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider these risk factors in addition to our financial statements, including the notes to such financial statements. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Item 1A. Business Related Risks The majority ownership of our common stock by subsidiaries of The Grande Holdings Limited, a Hong Kong based group of companies, substantially reduces the influence of our other stockholders. 12 Table of Contents As noted previously, The Grande Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries own approximately 50.8% of our outstanding common stock as of June 27, 2007. As a result, Grande currently has the ability to influence significantly the actions that require stockholder approval, including: • the election of our directors; and • the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. As a result, our other stockholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. Because of our relationships with Grande, including our related party transactions, we may become subject to conflicts of interests that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our Chairman of the Board, Christopher Ho, serves as the Chairman of Grande, and our Chief Executive Officer, Adrian Ma, serves as the Chief Executive Officer and a director of Grande. In addition, Michael A.B. Binney, our President — International Sales, serves as Executive Director of Grande. These relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when members of our senior management are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and Grande or its affiliates. In addition, as described in Note 3 of our financial statements and Item 9A – Control Procedures, there are a number of related party transactions between us and Grande or affiliates of Grande. Potential conflicts of interest can exist if a related party director or officer has to make a decision that has different implications for us and the related party. No assurance can be given as to how potentially conflicted board members or officers will evaluate their fiduciary duties to us and Grande, respectively, or how such individuals will act under such circumstances. Furthermore, the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the public’s perception of Emerson, as well as our relationship with our existing customers, licensors and licensees and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future. As a result of the related party transactions entered into between us and affiliates of Grande described in Note 3 to our financial statements, our lender deemed us to be in breach of certain covenants contained in our credit facility, including a covenant restricting us from lending money and from entering into related party transactions without the consent of its lender. Our lender under the credit facility agreed to waive such breaches and we and the lender entered into an amendment to the credit facility. Under the amendment, (i) we were required to grant the lender a security interest in the $23 million Note and the Guaranty referred to in Note 3 to our financial statements, (ii) a failure (following a 15 day cure period) by the borrowers to make payments to us as required by the terms of the Note, described in Note 3 to the financial statements would have been deemed a default under the credit facility, (iii) the number of field audits by the lender will be increased from two to three each year and (iv) we were required to pay $125,000 to the lender in connection with the amendment. The loss or significant reduction in business of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, Target, and Kmart could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. 13 Table of Contents We are highly dependent upon sales of our products to certain of our customers, including Wal-Mart, Target and Kmart. During our fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, Wal-Mart stores accounted for approximately 30% and 37%, respectively, Target stores accounted for approximately 21% and 17%, respectively, and Kmart stores accounted for approximately 6% and 10%, respectively, of our net revenues. Except for non-recurring promotional item sales to ESI International in fiscal 2007, which were 12% of net revenues, no other customer accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues during these periods, other customers may account for more than 10% of our net revenues in future periods. All purchases of our products by customers are made through purchase orders and we do not have any long-term contracts with any of our customers. The loss of Wal-Mart, Target or Kmart, or any of our other customers to which we sell a significant amount of our products or any significant portion of orders from Wal-Mart, Target or Kmart, or such other customers or any material adverse change in the financial condition of such customers could negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings. The failure to maintain our relationships with our licensees, licensors and distributors or the failure to obtain new licensees, licensors or distribution relationships could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We maintain agreements that allow licensees to use our Emerson® and H.H. Scott® trademarks for the manufacture and sale of specific consumer electronics and other products. In addition, we maintain agreements for the distribution of products bearing our brands, into defined geographic areas. Although we have entered into agreements with certain of our licensees and distributors of our products, most of which have a term of three years or less all of which will expire by September 2021, including our agreement with Funai, we cannot assure that such agreements will be renewed when the terms of such agreements expire, or that our relationships with our licensees or distributors will be maintained on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, during our fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, and 2007, we recognized a significant decrease in licensing revenues under our agreement with Funai. The failure to maintain our relationships with Funai and our other licensees and distributors on terms satisfactory to us, the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships or the failure by our licensees to protect the integrity and reputation of our Emerson® and H.H. Scott® trademarks could materially and adversely affect our licensing revenues and our earnings. We also maintain a license agreement with Apple Computer Inc. to develop and market products that are compatible with iPod® audio and video devices. This license has been renewed through June of 2008. License agreements with MTV Networks to license the Nickelodeon name, trademark and logo, along with several of Nickelodeon’s trademarks and logos, were not renewed, though we have, as of December 2006 entered into an inward license agreement with Mattel to license the Barbie name, trademark and logo. The license agreement expires December 2009. Under the license agreement Emerson will produce and sell a line of Barbie ™ Real Electronics. We may not be able to maintain or extend such relationships which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Our revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot anticipate market trends or enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands and trends in a timely manner, as well as expanding into new markets and developing new products. In addition, to increase our penetration of current markets and gain footholds in new markets for our products, we must maintain our existing products and integrate them 14 Table of Contents with new products. We may not be successful in developing, marketing and releasing new products that respond to technological developments or changing customer needs and preferences. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of these new products. In addition, these new products may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If release dates of any future products or enhancements to our products are delayed, or if these products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance when released, our sales volume may decline and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, new products or enhancements by our competitors may cause customers to defer or forgo purchases of our products, which could also materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our products. The availability to secure our products could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationship with our customers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for our component parts and raw materials, most of which are located outside of the United States. Although there are many suppliers for each of our component parts and raw materials, we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for many of the significant components and raw materials. This reliance involves a number of significant potential risks, including: • lack of availability of materials and interruptions in delivery of components and raw materials from our suppliers; • manufacturing delays caused by such lack of availability or interruptions in delivery; • fluctuations in the quality and the price of components and raw materials, in particular due to the petroleum price impact on such materials; and • risks related to foreign operations. We generally do not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of our suppliers. Midea, Capetronic Displays, and Lasco Industries are our largest suppliers of components for our products, each of which accounted for more than 10% of our purchases of components for our products for our latest fiscal year. Our failure to maintain existing relationships with our suppliers or to establish new relationships in the future could also negatively affect our ability to obtain our components and raw materials used in our products in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain ample supply of product from our existing suppliers or alternative sources of supply, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ orders which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. If our original equipment manufacturers are unable to deliver our products in the required amounts and in a timely fashion, we could experience delays or reductions in shipments to our customers which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. All of our products are manufactured in accordance with our specifications by original equipment manufacturers principally located in China. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain our products from the original equipment manufacturers located in China in the required quantities and quality and in a timely fashion, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments to our customers which could negatively affect our ability to meet the requirements of our customers, as well as our relationships with our customers, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Unanticipated disruptions in our operations or slowdowns by our suppliers, manufacturers and shipping companies could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products and service our customers which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. Our ability to provide high quality customer service, process and fulfill orders and manage inventory depends on: • the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our call center and distribution centers; and • the timely and uninterrupted performance of third party manufacturers and suppliers, shipping companies, and dock workers. Any material disruption or slowdown in the operation of our call center, distribution centers, manufacturing facilities or management information systems, or comparable disruptions or slowdowns suffered by our principal manufacturers, suppliers and shippers could cause delays in our ability to receive, process and fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused. As a result, our revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected by foreign regulations and changes in the political, public health and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we operate our business. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales of products manufactured by third parties located primarily in China. In addition, third parties located in China and other countries located in the same region produce and supply many of the components and raw materials used in our products. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks that could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and could subject us to increased costs. The main factors that may adversely affect our revenues and increase our costs are: • currency fluctuations which could cause an increase in the price of the components and raw materials used in our products and a decrease in our profits; • more stringent export restrictions in the countries in which we operate which could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products to our customers; • tariffs and other trade barriers which could make it more expensive for us to obtain and deliver our products to our customers; 16 Table of Contents • political instability and economic downturns in these countries which could adversely affect our ability to obtain our products from our manufacturers or deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion; • seasonal reductions in business activity in these countries during the summer months which could adversely affect our sales; and • new restrictions on the sale of electronic products containing certain hazardous substances. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, many of these risks and cannot predict the impact of any particular risk on our operations. However, any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our revenues and/or increase our operating expenses. The seasonality of our business, as well as changes in consumer spending and economic conditions, may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Our net revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The main factors that may cause these fluctuations are: • seasonal variations in operating results; • variations in the sales of our products to our significant customers; • increases in returned consumer electronics products in the March quarter which follows our peak September and December selling quarters; • variations in manufacturing and supplier relationships; • if we are unable to correctly anticipate and provide for inventory requirements from quarter to quarter, we may not have sufficient inventory to deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion or we may have excess inventory that we are unable to sell; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ demands and spending patterns; • changes in market and economic conditions; and • competition. In addition, our quarterly operating results could be materially adversely affected by political instability, war, acts of terrorism or other disasters. Sales of our products are somewhat seasonal due to consumer spending patterns, which tend to result in significantly stronger sales in our September and December fiscal quarters, especially as a result of the holiday season. This pattern will probably not change significantly in the future. Although we believe that the seasonality of our business is based primarily on the timing of consumer demand for our products, fluctuations in operating results can also result from other factors affecting 17 Table of Contents us and our competitors, including new product developments or introductions, availability of products for resale, competitive pricing pressures, changes in product mix, pricing and product reviews and other media coverage. Due to the seasonality of our business, our results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of our results for the year. Our sales and earnings can also be affected by changes in the general economy since purchases of consumer electronics are generally discretionary for consumers. Our success is influenced by a number of economic factors which affect disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, oil and gas prices and taxation rates. Adverse changes in these economic factors, among others, may restrict consumer spending, thereby negatively affecting our sales and profitability. As a result of these and other factors, revenues for any quarter are subject to significant variation, which may adversely affect our results of operations and the market price for our common stock. If our third party sales representatives fail to adequately promote, market and sell our products, our revenues could significantly decrease. A significant portion of our product sales are made through third party sales representative organizations, whose members are not our employees. Our level of sales depends on the effectiveness of these organizations, as well as the effectiveness of our own employees. Some of these third party representatives may sell (and do sell), with our permission, competitive products of third parties as well as our products. During our fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, these organizations were responsible for approximately 50% and 55%, respectively, of our net revenues during such periods. In addition, two of these representative organizations were responsible for a significant portion of these revenues. If any of our third party sales representative organizations engaged by us, especially our two largest, fails to adequately promote, market and sell our products, our revenues could be significantly decreased until a replacement organization or distributor could be retained by us. Finding replacement organizations and distributors could be a time consuming process during which our revenues could be negatively impacted. We may seek to make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our management’s attention and our capital resources. We may seek to grow our business through the acquisition of related businesses. Such acquisitions present risks that could materially adversely affect our earnings, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our everyday business activities; • the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; • the incurring of additional expenses related to such acquisitions, whether or not such acquisitions are consummated; • the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business; and 18 Table of Contents • the need to expand management, administration and operational systems. If we make such acquisitions, we cannot predict whether: • we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any new businesses into our business; • we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or • if there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in: • potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; • the incurrence of additional debt; and • the recognition of significant charges for impairment and amortization expense related to goodwill and other intangible assets. We continuously evaluate potential acquisitions of related businesses. However, competition for such potential acquisitions is intense and we have not reached any agreement or arrangement with respect to any particular acquisition and we may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. We are subject to intense competition in the industry in which we operate, which could cause material reductions in the selling price of our products or losses of our market share. The consumer electronics industry is highly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new products and features. Our products compete in the low to medium-priced sector of the consumer electronics market and compete primarily on the basis of: • reliability; • brand recognition; • quality; • price; • design; • consumer acceptance of the Emerson® trademark; and • quality service and support to retailers and our customers. 19 Table of Contents In recent years, we and many of our competitors, have regularly lowered prices, and we expect these pricing pressures to continue. If these pricing pressures are not mitigated by increases in volume, cost reductions from our supplier or changes in product mix, our revenues and profits could be substantially reduced. As compared to us, many of our competitors have: • significantly longer operating histories; • significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources; and • greater brand recognition. As a result, our competitors may be able to: • adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; • devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services; and • respond more effectively to pricing pressures. These factors could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, competition could increase if: • new companies enter the market; • existing competitors expand their product mix; or • we expand into new markets. An increase in competition could result in material price reductions or loss of our market share. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary rights. We own the Emerson® trademark, which is materially important to our business, as well as our licenses, other trademarks and proprietary rights that are used for certain of our home entertainment and consumer electronics products. Our trademarks are registered throughout the world, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, France, Spain, Germany, China, Japan, India and the United Kingdom. However, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us. In addition, in the event third party licensees fail to protect the integrity of our trademarks, the value of these marks could be materially adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents The laws of some foreign countries in which we operate may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do laws in the United States. The protections afforded by the laws of such countries may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect the license of our trade names and trademarks to third parties as well as our ability to sell our products. Litigation may be necessary to: • enforce our intellectual property rights; • protect our trade secrets; and • determine the scope and validity of such intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention from the operation of our business. We may receive notice of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Such actions could result in litigation and we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending such claims. The party making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief. Such relief could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute or market our products and services in such jurisdiction. We may also be required to seek licenses to such intellectual property. We cannot predict, however, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, that such licenses could be obtained on terms that are commercially reasonable and acceptable to us. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could delay or preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products and could result in increased costs to us. We could be exposed to product liability or other claims for which our product liability or other insurance may be inadequate. A failure of any of the products marketed by us may subject us to the risk of product liability claims and litigation arising from injuries allegedly caused by the improper functioning or design of our products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance in amounts which we consider adequate, we cannot assure that: • our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities; • adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or • our insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms. Although we maintain liability insurance in amounts that we consider adequate, we cannot assure that such policies will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. To the extent product liability or other litigation losses are beyond the limits or scope of our insurance coverage, our expenses could materially increase. 21 Table of Contents The inability to use our tax net operating losses could result in a charge to earnings and could require us to pay higher taxes. We have substantial tax net operating losses available to reduce taxable income for federal and state income tax purposes. A portion of the benefit associated with the tax net operating losses has been recognized as a deferred tax asset in our financial statements and could be used to reduce our tax liability in future profitable periods. We believe these net deferred tax assets will be realized through tax planning strategies available in future periods and future profitable operating results. Although realization is not assured, we believe it is more likely than not that all of the remaining net deferred tax assets will be realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be reduced or eliminated in the near term if certain tax planning strategies are not successfully executed, or estimates of future taxable income during the carry-forward period is reduced. Our indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funds and may increase our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. From time to time we incur substantial debt in connection with our operations. As a result, we may be subject to the risks associated with indebtedness, including: • we must dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to pay debt service costs and, as a result, we have less funds available for operations and other purposes; • it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financings, if such funds are available at all; • we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and • if we default under any of our existing credit facilities or if our creditors demand payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure our borrowings under our credit facilities and are subject to covenants that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Our indebtedness under our credit facilities is secured by substantially all of our assets. If we default under the indebtedness secured by our assets, those assets would be available to the secured creditor to satisfy our obligations to the secured creditor. In addition, our credit facilities impose certain restrictive covenants, including financial, ownership, operational and net worth covenants. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could result in all or any of the following: • acceleration of the payment of our outstanding indebtedness; • our inability to borrow additional amounts under our existing financing arrangements; and • our inability to secure financing on favorable terms or at all from alternative sources. 22 Table of Contents Any of these consequences could significantly reduce the amount of cash and financing available to us which in turn would adversely affect our ability to operate our business, including acquiring our products from our manufacturers and distributing our products to our customers. We had identified material weaknesses in our internal controls and, while new internal control policies and procedures have been installed, if we are unable to maintain appropriate internal controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of its financial statements, harm our operating results, limit our access to credit facilities necessary to fund our operations, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in the our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. We maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As noted in Item 9A – “Controls and Procedures,” certain events in fiscal 2007 revealed material weaknesses in our internal controls. We will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by the our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and management and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. Our Audit Committee has assigned the highest priority to the improvement of our internal controls over financial reporting and has taken, and will continue to take, action in furtherance of such improvement and in response to the events described under Item 9A – “Controls and Procedures.” We cannot assure you that such remediation efforts will be effective to prevent events or actions which are inconsistent with our internal controls or that it will not, in the future, identify further areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting or that our internal controls will not be circumvented. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures or if such controls and procedures are not complied with, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, limit our access to credit facilities necessary to fund our operations, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. As noted in Note 3 to our financial statements contained herein, the Audit Committee is conducting an independent review of the transactions discussed therein. The review may uncover additional 23 Table of Contents facts concerning these transactions, additional related party transactions, or additional deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting. Market Related Risks The market price of our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations from time to time. The market price for our common stock and for securities of similar companies has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Factors which may affect our market price include: • market conditions in the industries in which we operate; • competition; • sales or the possibility of sales of our common stock; • our results of operations and financial condition; and • general economic conditions. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it harder for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors and management. Several provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. If our common stock is de-listed from the American Stock Exchange, shareholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which the shares were purchased, or at all. In order for our common stock to continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange, we must meet the current American Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, including, among other things, satisfying the audit committee composition requirements and meeting our filing requirements with the SEC. In addition, we are a “controlled company” under the rules of the American Stock Exchange and are not required to comply with the rules relating to independent directors, board nominations and executive compensation. During fiscal 2007, we failed to timely file our report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2006. In addition, we have received notices from the American Stock Exchange in the past for failure to 24 Table of Contents meet certain continued listing requirements. If we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, our common stock could be de-listed from the American Stock Exchange. If our common stock were to be de-listed from the American Stock Exchange, our common stock could continue to trade on the National Association of Securities Dealers’ over-the-counter bulletin board or on the Pink Sheets, as the case may be. Any such de-listing of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and less coverage of us by securities analysts, if any. Also, if in the future we were to determine that we need to seek additional equity capital, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the public or private equity markets. Forward-Looking Information This report contains forward looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 under Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include statements with respect to our beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, and future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond our control, and which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements through our use of words such as “may,” “will,” “can,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “should,” “indicate,” “would,” “believe,” “contemplate,” “expect,” “seek,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “could,” “intend,” “target,” “potential,” and other similar words and expressions of the future. These forward-looking statements may not be realized due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation: • the loss of any of our key customers or reduction in the purchase of our products by any such customers; • our inability to improve and maintain effective internal controls or the failure by our personnel to comply with such internal controls; • the failure to maintain our relationships with our licensees and distributors or the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships on favorable terms; • our inability to anticipate market trends, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products; 25 Table of Contents • our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for our components and raw materials; • our dependence on third party manufacturers to manufacture and deliver our products; • the seasonality of our business, as well as changes in consumer spending and economic conditions; • the failure of third party sales representatives to adequately promote, market and sell our products; • our inability to protect our intellectual property; • the effects of competition; • changes in foreign laws and regulations and changes in the political and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we operate; • conflicts of interest that exist based on our relationship with Grande; • the outcome of the Audit Committee’s review of our related party transactions and internal controls; • changes in accounting policies, rules and practices; and • the other factors listed under “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary notice. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report or the date of the document incorporated by reference into this annual report. We have no obligation, and expressly disclaim any obligation, to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We have expressed our expectations, beliefs and projections in good faith and we believe they have a reasonable basis. However, we cannot assure you that our expectations, beliefs or projections will result or be achieved or accomplished. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 