Item 1A. Risk Factors The reader should carefully consider these risk factors in addition to those set forth in the Company’s financial statements or the notes thereto. Additional risks about which the Company is not yet aware or that the Company currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely affect the Company’s business operations. If any of the following occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. In that case, the price of the Company’s common stock may decline. 9 Table of Contents Business Related Risks Uncertain Impact of Appointment of Provisional Liquidators for Grande, Emerson’s Controlling Shareholder. The consequences for the Company, if any, of the appointment of Provisional Liquidators over Grande and the subsequent filing by Grande with the United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan in June 2011 of a Chapter 15 petition under the United States Bankruptcy Code are uncertain at this time, although it is possible, as noted below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that actions taken by the Provisional Liquidator over Grande could affect in an adverse way a number of significant aspects of the Company’s business. Subsequent to the appointment, certain major factory suppliers, including Midea, have significantly reduced the maximum amount of open credit lines available to the Company. At the factories’ request, the Company made accelerated payments in June and July of 2011 to reduce the balances owing from the Company on its open trade payable accounts with the respective factory suppliers to comply with such new credit terms. The Company relies on its cash on hand and cash generated by ongoing operations to manage its business. The Provisional Liquidators informed Emerson, on June 1, 2011, that they do not have any intention of interrupting the business of Emerson, that Emerson will continue to be operated as usual without interruption, and that they did not have any intent at that point of disposing of the shares of Emerson stock held by Grande. The controlling ownership of the Company’s common stock by an indirect subsidiary of Grande, which is listed and is based in Hong Kong, substantially reduces the influence of other stockholders, and the interests of Grande may conflict with the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. Grande, through one of its indirect subsidiaries, is the beneficial owner of a significant amount of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of July 13, 2012 (see Item 1 “Business — Controlling Shareholder” for disclosures regarding the approximate shareholding position of Grande in the Company). As a result, Grande currently controls significantly the approval process for actions that require stockholder approval, including: the election of the Company’s directors and the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other significant corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. Because of Grande’s ownership position, other stockholders have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. A number of the Company’s directors and senior executive officers also are managing directors or senior officers of Grande and have loyalties and fiduciary obligations to both Grande and the Company. Christopher Ho, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, and Duncan Hon, the Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company, are also directors of Grande. In addition, Mr. Ho serves as The Chairman of the Board of Grande and Mr. Hon serves as an officer and director of Grande. As described in Note 3 to the Company’s financial statements and in the Company’s previous filings with the SEC, there have been a number of related party transactions between the Company, Grande, its subsidiaries and affiliates (see Item 1A “Risk Factors — Business Related Risks — “Uncertain Impact of Appointment of Provisional Liquidators for Grande, Emerson’s Controlling Shareholder”). The Company has established adequate procedures designed to ensure that related party transactions are fair to the Company. The loss or significant reduction in business with either of the Company’s key customers, Wal-Mart and Target, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and earnings. The Company is highly dependent upon sales of its products to Wal-Mart and Target. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 48% and 58% of the Company’s net revenues, respectively, and Target accounted for approximately 39% and 29%, respectively, of the Company’s net revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues during these periods. All customer purchases are made through purchase orders and the Company does not have any long-term contracts with its customers. The complete loss of, or significant reduction in business from, or a material adverse change in the financial condition of, Wal-Mart or Target would cause a material and adverse change in the Company’s revenues and operating results (see Item 1A “Risk Factors — Business Related Risks — “Uncertain Impact of Appointment of Provisional Liquidators for Grande, Emerson’s Controlling Shareholder”). 10 Table of Contents The Company depends on a limited number of suppliers for its products. The inability to secure products could reduce the Company’s revenues and adversely affect its relationship with its customer, and the inability to secure products at competitive costs could negatively impact the Company’s earnings. Although there are multiple suppliers for each of the Company’s products, the Company relies and is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for its main products, all of which are located outside of the United States. This reliance involves a number of significant potential risks, including: • lack of availability of materials and interruptions in delivery of components and raw materials from suppliers; • manufacturing delays caused by such lack of availability or interruptions in delivery; • fluctuations in the quality and the price of components and raw materials, in particular due to the petroleum price impact on such materials; • fluctuations in the cost of procuring finished goods inventory; and • risk related to foreign operations. The Company does not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of its suppliers. Midea was the Company’s largest supplier during fiscal 2012 and accounted for 66% of the Company’s purchases of products during fiscal 2012. The Company’s failure to maintain existing relationships with its suppliers or to establish new relationships on similar pricing and credit terms in the future could negatively affect the Company’s ability to obtain products in a timely manner. If the Company is unable to obtain an ample supply of product from its existing suppliers or alternative sources of supply, it may be unable to satisfy its customers’ orders, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and relationships with its customers. Finding replacement suppliers could be a time consuming process during which the Company’s revenues and liquidity could be negatively impacted (see Item 1A “Risk Factors — Business Related Risks — “Uncertain Impact of Appointment of Provisional Liquidators for Grande, Emerson’s Controlling Shareholder”). If the Company’s contract manufacturers are unable to deliver products in the required amounts and in a timely fashion, the Company could experience delays or reductions in shipments to its customers, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and relationships with its customers. Unanticipated disruptions in the Company’s operations, slowdowns or shutdowns by its suppliers, manufacturers and shipping companies could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver its products and services to its customers which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and relationships with its customers. The Company’s ability to provide high quality customer service, process and fulfill orders, and manage inventory depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its distribution centers and the timely and uninterrupted performance of third party manufacturers and suppliers, shipping companies and dock workers. Any material disruption, slowdown or shutdown of the Company’s operation of its call center, distribution centers, or management information systems, or comparable disruptions, slowdowns or shutdowns suffered by the Company’s principal manufacturers, suppliers and shippers could cause delays in the Company’s ability to receive, process and fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused. As a result, the Company’s revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. All of the Company’s products are manufactured in accordance with its specifications by factories principally located in China. If the Company is unable to obtain products from these factories in the required quantities and quality and in a timely fashion, the Company could experience delays or reductions in product shipments to its customers, which could negatively affect the Company’s ability to meet the requirements of its customers, as well as its relationships with its customers, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results. Substantially all of the Company’s suppliers are located in China. Inadequate development and maintenance of infrastructure in China, including inadequate power and water supplies, transportation and raw materials availability, and the deterioration in the general political, economic and social environments in China may make it difficult, more expensive and possibly prohibitive for these suppliers to continue to operate in China. If the Company cannot find suitable replacements for any manufacturers that have or may in the future close their facilities, the Company’s revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents The failure by the Company to maintain its relationships with its licensees, licensors and distributors or the failure to obtain new licensees, licensors or distribution relationships could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and earnings. The Company maintains agreements that allow licensees to use the Company’s trademarks for the manufacture and sale of specific consumer electronics and other products. In addition, the Company maintains agreements for the distribution of products bearing its brands into defined geographic areas. Although the Company has entered into agreements with certain of its licensees and distributors of its products, most have terms of three years or less, including the Company’s agreement with Funai, which accounts for approximately 75% of the Company’s total licensing revenue, and which expires in December 2012 unless renewed. The Company cannot assure that such agreements will be renewed or that the Company’s relationships with its licensees or distributors will be maintained on satisfactory terms or at all. The failure to maintain its relationships with Funai and other licensees and distributors on terms satisfactory to the Company, the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships or the failure by the Company’s licensees to protect the integrity and reputation of the Company’s trademarks could materially and adversely affect the Company’s licensing revenues and earnings. The Company’s business could be materially and adversely affected if it cannot protect its intellectual property rights or if it infringes on the intellectual property rights of others. The Company’s ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to maintain and protect its proprietary rights. The Company owns the Emerson® and other trademarks, which are materially important to its business, as well as other trademarks, patents, licenses and proprietary rights that are used for certain of the products that it markets and sells. The Company’s trademarks are registered throughout the world, including the United States and other countries. The Company also has two patents in the United States on its SmartSet® technology, both of which expire in September 2018. The laws of some foreign countries in which the Company operates may not protect the Company’s proprietary rights to the same extent as do laws in the United States. The protections afforded by the laws of such countries may not be adequate to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any trademarks, patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to the Company. In addition, in the event third party licensees fail to protect the integrity of the Company’s trademarks, the value of these marks could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s inability to protect its proprietary rights could materially and adversely affect the license of its trade names, trademarks and patents to third parties as well as its ability to sell its products. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights, protect the Company’s trade secrets; and determine the scope and validity of such intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention from the operation of the Company’s business. The Company may receive notices of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Such actions could result in litigation and the Company could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending such claims. The party making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief. Such relief could effectively block the Company’s ability to make, use, sell, distribute or market its products and services in such jurisdiction. The Company may also be required to seek licenses to such intellectual property. The Company cannot predict, however, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, that such licenses could be obtained on terms that are commercially reasonable and acceptable to the Company. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could delay or preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of its products and could result in increased costs to the Company. The Company’s revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected if it cannot anticipate market trends or enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products. The Company’s success is dependent on its ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands and trends in a timely manner, as well as expanding into new markets and developing new products. In addition, to increase the Company’s penetration of current markets and gain footholds in new markets for its products, the Company must maintain its existing products and integrate them with new products. The Company may not be successful in developing, marketing and releasing new products that respond to technological developments or changing customer needs and preferences. The Company may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of these new products. These new products may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If release dates of any future products or enhancements to the Company’s products are delayed, or if these products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance when released, the Company’s sales volume may decline and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, new products or enhancements by the Company’s competitors may cause customers to defer or forgo purchases of the Company’s products, which could also materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and earnings. 12 Table of Contents The Company relies on its cash on hand and cash generated from operations to fund its business. The Company relies on its cash on hand and cash generated by on-going operations to manage its business, and has not attempted to seek alternative sources of financing at this time. Foreign regulations and changes in the political, social and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which the Company operates its business could affect the Company’s revenues and earnings materially and adversely. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue from sales of products manufactured by third parties located primarily in China. In addition, third parties located in China and other countries located in the same region produce and supply many of the components and raw materials used in the Company’s products. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate revenues and could subject the Company to increased costs. Among the factors that may adversely affect the Company’s revenues and increase its costs are: • currency fluctuations which could cause an increase in the price of the components and raw materials used in the Company’s products and a decrease in its profits; • Chinese labor laws; • labor shortages in manufacturing facilities located in China; • the elimination or reduction of value-added tax refunds to Chinese factories that manufacture products for export; • the rise of inflation and substantial economic growth in China; • more stringent export restrictions in the countries in which the Company operates which could adversely affect its ability to deliver its products to its customers; • tariffs and other trade barriers which could make it more expensive for the Company to obtain and deliver its products to its customers; • political instability and economic downturns in these countries which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain its products from its manufacturers or deliver its products to its customers in a timely fashion; • new restrictions on the sale of electronic products containing certain hazardous substances; and • the laws of China are likely to govern many of the Company’s supplier agreements. Any of the factors described above may materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and/or increase its operating expenses. The Company is subject to intense competition in the industry in which it operates, which could cause material changes in the selling price of its products or losses of its market share. The housewares and consumer electronics industry is highly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new products and features. The Company’s products compete in the low to medium-priced sector of the housewares and consumer electronics market and compete primarily on the basis of reliability, brand recognition, quality, price, design, consumer acceptance of the Emerson® trademark and quality service and support to retailers and its customers. The Company and many of its competitors are subject to factory cost increases, and the Company expects these pressures to continue. If these pressures are not mitigated by increases in selling price or cost reductions from the Company’s suppliers or changes in product mix, of if the consumers of the Company’s products change their buying habits as a result of the Company’s actions, the Company’s revenues and profits could be substantially reduced. As compared to the Company, many of its competitors have significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources and greater brand recognition. As a result, the Company’s competitors may be able to (i) adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; (ii) devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services; and (iii) respond more effectively to pricing pressures. 13 Table of Contents In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market, existing competitors expand their product mix or the Company expands into new markets. An increase in competition could result in material price reductions or loss of the Company’s market share. Changes in consumer spending and economic conditions may cause its quarterly operating results to fluctuate and cause its stock price to decline. The Company’s net revenue and operating results may vary significantly from year to year, which may adversely affect its results of operations and the market price for its common stock. Factors that may cause these fluctuations include: • changes in market and economic conditions; • the discretionary nature of consumers’ demands and spending patterns; • variations in the sales of the Company’s products to its significant customers; • variations in manufacturing and supplier relationships; • if the Company is unable to correctly anticipate and provide for inventory requirements, it may not have sufficient inventory to deliver its products to its customers in a timely fashion or the Company may have excess inventory that it is unable to sell; • new product developments or introductions; • product reviews and other media coverage; • competition, including competitive price pressures; and • political instability, war, acts of terrorism or other disasters. If the Company’s third party sales representatives fail to adequately promote, market and sell the Company’s products, the Company’s revenues could significantly decrease. A significant portion of the Company’s product sales are made through third party sales representative organizations, whose members are not employees of the Company. The Company’s level of sales depends on the effectiveness of these organizations, as well as the effectiveness of its own employees. Some of these third party representatives may sell (and do sell), with the Company’s permission, competitive products of third parties as well as the Company’s products. During the Company’s fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011, these organizations were responsible for approximately 46% and 37%, respectively, of its net revenues during such periods. In addition, one of these representative organizations was responsible for a significant portion of these revenues. If any of the Company’s third party sales representative organizations engaged by the Company, especially the Company’s largest, fails to adequately promote, market and sell its products, the Company’s revenues could be significantly decreased until a replacement organization or distributor could be retained by the Company. Finding replacement organizations and distributors could be a time consuming process during which the Company’s revenues could be negatively impacted. 14 Table of Contents The Company could be exposed to product liability or other claims for which its product liability or other insurance may be inadequate. A failure of any of the products marketed by the Company may subject it to the risk of product liability claims and litigation arising from injuries allegedly caused by the improper functioning or design of its products. Although the Company currently maintains product liability insurance in amounts which the Company considers adequate, the Company cannot assure that: • its insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities; • adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or • its insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms. Although the Company maintains liability insurance in amounts that it considers adequate, the Company cannot assure that such policies will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. To the extent product liability or other litigation losses are beyond the limits or scope of the Company’s insurance coverage, the Company’s expenses could materially increase. Market Related Risks Grande’s controlling interest in the Company’s common stock as well as the Company’s organizational documents and Delaware law make it difficult for the Company to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of Grande, the Company’s board of directors and management. Grande’s controlling interest in the Company’s shares as well as several provisions of the Company’s organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of its common stock. Under the terms of the Company’s certificate of incorporation, its board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by its current board of directors (see Item 1A “Risk Factors — Business Related Risks — “Uncertain Impact of Appointment of Provisional Liquidators for Grande, Emerson’s Controlling Shareholder”). If the Company’s common stock is de-listed from the NYSE MKT, shareholders’ liquidity in their shares may be adversely affected and shareholders may have difficulty selling their shares or attaining a satisfactory price. In order for the Company’s common stock to be eligible to continue to be listed on the NYSE MKT, the Company must meet the current NYSE MKT continued listing requirements, including satisfying the Audit Committee composition requirements and the timely filing of periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If the Company is unable to continue to meet these requirements, its common stock could be de-listed from the NYSE MKT. If the Company’s common stock were to be de-listed from the NYSE MKT, its common stock could continue to trade on the National Association of Securities Dealers’ over-the-counter bulletin board or on the Pink Sheets, as the case may be. Any such de-listing of the Company’s common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for its common stock, in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price and through delays in the timing of transactions and less coverage of the Company by securities analysts, if any. It also could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to raise capital in the public or private equity markets if the Company were to determine that it needs to seek additional equity capital in the future. 15 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Information This report contains forward looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 under Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include statements with respect to the Company’s beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, and future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond the Company’s control, and which may cause its actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements through the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “can,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “should,” “indicate,” “would,” “believe,” “contemplate,” “expect,” “seek,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “could,” “intend,” “target,” “potential,” and other similar words and expressions of the future. These forward-looking statements may not be realized due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation: • the impact, if any, on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation arising from the appointment of the Provisional Liquidators over Grande see Item 1A “Risk Factors — Business Related Risks — “Uncertain Impact of Appointment of Provisional Liquidators for Grande, Emerson’s Controlling Shareholder”; • the decline in, and any further deterioration of, consumer spending for retail products, such as the Company’s products; • the Company’s inability to resist price increases from its suppliers or pass through such increases to its customers; • the loss of any of the Company’s key customers or reduction in the purchase of the Company’s products by any such customers; • conflicts of interest that exist based on the Company’s relationship with Grande; • the Company’s inability to improve and maintain effective internal controls or the failure by its personnel to comply with such internal controls; • the Company’s inability to maintain its relationships with its licensees and distributors or the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships on favorable terms; • the Company’s inability to anticipate market trends, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products; • the Company’s dependence on a limited number of suppliers for its components and raw materials; • the Company’s dependence on third party manufacturers to manufacture and deliver its products; • changes in consumer spending and economic conditions; • the failure of third party sales representatives to adequately promote, market and sell the Company’s products; • the Company’s inability to protect its intellectual property; • the effects of competition; • changes in foreign laws and regulations and changes in the political and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which the Company operates; • changes in accounting policies, rules and practices; • limited access to financing or increased cost of financing; and • the other factors listed under “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC. 16 Table of Contents All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary notice. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report or the date of the document incorporated by reference into this annual report. The Company has no obligation, and expressly disclaim any obligation, to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The Company has expressed its expectations, beliefs and projections in good faith and the Company believes they have a reasonable basis. However, the Company cannot assure the reader that its expectations, beliefs or projections will result or be achieved or accomplished. 