Item 1A. Risk Factors The reader should carefully consider these risk factors in addition to those set forth in the Company’s financial statements or the notes thereto. Additional risks about which the Company is not yet aware or that the Company currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely affect the Company’s business operations. If any of the following occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. In that case, the price of the Company’s common stock may decline. 8 Table of Contents Business Related Risks Uncertain Impact of Appointment of Provisional Liquidators for Grande, Emerson’s Controlling Shareholder. The consequences for the Company, if any, of the appointment of Provisional Liquidators over Grande and the subsequent filing by Grande with the United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan in June 2011 of a Chapter 15 petition under the United States Bankruptcy Code are uncertain at this time, although it is possible, as noted below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that actions taken by the Provisional Liquidators over Grande could affect in an adverse way a number of significant aspects of the Company’s business. Subsequent to the appointment, certain major factory suppliers, including Midea, significantly reduced the maximum amount of open credit lines available to the Company and requested that the Company make accelerated payments to them to reduce the balances owing from the Company on its open trade payable accounts with the respective factory suppliers to comply with such new credit terms. The Company relies on its cash on hand and cash generated by ongoing operations to manage its business. The Provisional Liquidators informed Emerson, on June 1, 2011, that they do not have any intention of interrupting the business of Emerson, that Emerson will continue to be operated as usual without interruption, and that they did not have any intent at that point of disposing of the shares of Emerson stock held by Grande. Subsequently, on March 20, 2013, the Provisional Liquidators informed Emerson that they are obligated to liquidate the 15,243,283 shares beneficially owned by Grande. However, in February 2014, the Provisional Liquidators for and on behalf of Grande issued a public announcement that Grande, among other things, had been in discussions with different investors to pursue a restructuring plan and the resumption of trading of Grande’s shares on the HKSE. In addition, in May 2014, the Provisional Liquidators for and on behalf of Grande issued a public announcement disclosing that on May 2, 2014, Grande, the Provisional Liquidators and a creditor of Grande entered into an agreement to implement the “Grande Restructuring Proposal” submitted by a creditor of Grande. Based on information contained within the public announcement issued for Grande in May 2014, if the Grande Restructuring Proposal is implemented, Mr. Christopher Ho, who served as the Company’s Chairman of the Board until November 2013 and is currently the sole director of Grande, and his associates would continue to have a majority interest in Grande and would regain the power to direct the voting and disposition of the 15,243,283 shares beneficially owned by Grande. As disclosed in the Schedule 13D/A filed by the Reporting Persons on May 22, 2014, the Grande Restructuring Proposal includes a plan to re-list Grande on the HKSE and provides that many assets of Grande, including its shares of Emerson, would remain part of Grande. According to the public announcement issued for Grande in May 2014, the Grande Restructuring Plan will require approvals, consents and sanctions of the HKSE, courts in Hong Kong and Bermuda, and the creditors and shareholders of Grande. In addition, on June 11, 2014, Grande announced that it had received a summons issued by a creditor of Grande seeking the removal of the Provisional Liquidators. On June 1, 2015 the Provisional Liquidators for and on behalf of Grande issued a public announcement disclosing that by letter dated May 29, 2015, the HKSE decided to allow Grande to proceed with Grande’s “Updated Resumption Proposal”, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions by December 21, 2015. It is not possible at this time to predict whether Grande can satisfy the conditions established by the HKSE for the resumption or relisting of Grande on HKSE, or whether the Grande Restructuring Proposal will receive all necessary approvals, nor can there be any assurances regarding the timing, terms or effects of implementing the Grande Restructuring Proposal or if the Provisional Liquidators will be removed. However, even though the Provisional Liquidators continue to maintain the ability to exercise the power to direct the voting and disposition of shares, as long as the Provisional Liquidators are pursuing this restructuring proposal that would result in Grande retaining beneficial ownership of the 15,243,283 shares of Emerson common stock, the Provisional Liquidators may not be actively seeking to liquidate those shares. If the Grande Restructuring Proposal is completed as described within the public announcement issued for Grande in May 2014, it is expected that the 15,243,283 shares of Emerson common stock held of record by Grande’s subsidiary, S&T, would remain with S&T and that Grande would once again have the power to direct the voting and disposition of this 56.2% controlling interest in Emerson common stock. It is not possible at this time to predict what impact the removal of the Provisional Liquidators would have on the Grande Restructuring Proposal or Emerson and Emerson cannot predict nor provide any assurances regarding the possible effects on the Company, its shareholders, the trading price of its common stock or any other consequences that could result if the Grande Restructuring Proposal is approved and Grande again has the power to control Emerson. 9 Table of Contents The controlling ownership of the Company’s common stock by an indirect subsidiary of Grande substantially reduces the influence of other stockholders, and the interests of Grande may conflict with the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. Grande, through one of its indirect subsidiaries, is the beneficial owner of a significant amount of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of June 23, 2015 (see Item 1 “Business — Controlling Shareholder” for disclosures regarding the approximate shareholding position of Grande in the Company). However, as described in this report, the directors of Grande no longer have the ability to exercise control over Grande or the power to direct the voting and disposition of the Company’s shares beneficially owned by Grande. Instead, the Provisional Liquidators currently have such power. As a result, Grande, through the Provisional Liquidators, currently controls significantly the approval process for actions that require stockholder approval, including: the election of the Company’s directors and the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other significant corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. Because of Grande’s ownership position, other stockholders have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. In addition, several provisions of the Company’s organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of its common stock. Under the terms of the Company’s certificate of incorporation, its board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by its current board of directors. Certain of the Company’s directors also may have conflicts of interests as a result of positions held with Grande or FTI Consulting (Hong Kong) Limited and have loyalties and fiduciary obligations to both Grande or FTI Consulting (Hong Kong) Limited and the Company. Duncan Hon, the Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company, also is an officer of certain subsidiaries of Grande. In addition, John Batchelor, the Company’s Chairman of the Board, is a Senior Managing Director with FTI Consulting (Hong Kong) Limited (“FTI”) as are the two Joint and Several Provisional Liquidators for Grande. As a result Messrs. Hon and Batchelor may have conflicts of interest when acting on behalf of the Company or on behalf of Grande, or FTI, as applicable. In addition, as described in Note 3 to the Company’s financial statements and in the Company’s previous filings with the SEC, there have been certain related party transactions between the Company and certain subsidiaries and affiliates of Grande. The Company has established adequate procedures designed to ensure that related party transactions are fair to the Company. The loss or significant reduction in business with either of the Company’s key customers, Target and Wal-Mart, would materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and earnings. The Company is highly dependent upon sales of its products to Target and Wal-Mart. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, Target accounted for approximately 51% and 58%, respectively, of the Company’s net revenues, and Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 28% and 22% of the Company’s net revenues, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues during these periods. All customer purchases are made through purchase orders and the Company does not have any long-term contracts with its customers. The complete loss of, or significant reduction in business from, or a material adverse change in the financial condition of, Target or Wal-Mart would cause a material and adverse change in the Company’s revenues and operating results. For example, the Company believes that its key customers will discontinue several of the Company’s product offerings during fiscal 2016, the sales of which accounted for approximately 15% of the Company’s fiscal 2015 consolidated gross product sales. The loss of these sales would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations unless these sales could be replaced either by sales of these or similar products to new customers or by sales of new products to these key customers. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to increase sales at levels sufficient to offset the adverse impact of the loss of these product offerings, if at all. 10 Table of Contents The Company is dependent on a limited number of products for its sales. We derive a substantial portion of our product revenues from a limited number of products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our product revenues in the near term. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2015, the Company’s gross product sales were comprised of five product types within two categories — housewares products and audio products, and two of these product types, namely microwave ovens and compact refrigerators — both within the housewares category — generated approximately 95% of the Company’s gross product sales, with microwave ovens generating approximately 67% of the total and compact refrigerators generating approximately 28% of the total. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2014, the Company’s gross product sales were comprised of the same five product types within the same two categories — housewares products and audio products, and two of these product types, namely microwave ovens and compact refrigerators — both within the housewares category — generated approximately 93% of the Company’s gross product sales, with microwave ovens generating approximately 62% of the total and compact refrigerators generating approximately 31% of the total. Because the market for these product types and categories is characterized by periodic new product introductions, the Company’s future financial performance will depend, in part, on the successful and timely development and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of these product types and other products distributed by the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful in marketing these products types within these categories or any other new or enhanced products. As a result of this dependence, a significant decline in pricing of, or market acceptance of these product types and categories, either in general or specifically as marketed by the Company, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation. The loss or reduction of business of one or a combination of our microwave oven and compact refrigerator products could materially adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Company believes that its key customers will discontinue several of the Company’s product offerings during fiscal 2016, the sales of which accounted for approximately 15%of the Company’s fiscal 2015 consolidated gross product sales. The loss of these sales would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations unless these sales could be replaced either by sales of these or similar products to new customers or by sales of new products to these key customers. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to increase sales at levels sufficient to offset the adverse impact of the loss of these product offerings, if at all. The Company may be liable for additional tax payments to the IRS in connection with the extraordinary dividend paid by the Company to recipients on March 24, 2010 which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. On March 2, 2010, the Board declared an extraordinary dividend of $1.10 per common share which was paid on March 24, 2010. In connection with the Company’s determination as to the taxability of the dividend, the Board relied upon information and research provided to it by the Company’s tax advisors and, in reliance on the “stock-for-debt” exception in the Internal Revenue Code Sections 108(e)(8) and (e)(10), concluded that 4.9% of such dividend paid was taxable to the recipients. In August 2012, the Company received a Form 886-A from the IRS which challenges the Company’s conclusions and determines that the Company does not qualify for the above-referenced exception. Accordingly, the IRS has concluded that 100% of the dividend paid was taxable to the recipients. The Company is defending its position and calculations and is contesting the position asserted by the IRS. The Company prepared and, on October 25, 2012, delivered its rebuttal to the IRS contesting the IRS determination. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in defending its position. In the event that the Company is not successful in establishing with the IRS that the Company’s calculations were correct, then the shareholders who received the dividend likely will be subject to and liable for an assessment of additional taxes due. Moreover, the Company may be contingently liable for taxes due by certain of its shareholders resulting from the dividend paid by the Company. Initially, the Company withheld from the dividend paid to foreign shareholders an amount equal to the tax liability associated with such dividend. On April 7, 2010, upon a request made to the Company by its foreign controlling shareholder, S&T, the Company entered into an agreement with S&T (the “Agreement”), whereby the Company returned to S&T on April 7, 2010 that portion of the funds withheld for taxes from the dividend paid on March 24, 2010 to S&T, which the Company believed was not subject to U.S. tax based on the Company’s good-faith estimate of its accumulated earnings and profits at that time. The Agreement includes provisions pursuant to which S&T agreed to indemnify the Company for any liability imposed on it as a result of the Company’s agreement not to withhold such funds for S&T’s possible tax liability and a pledge of stock as collateral. The Company continues to assert that such dividend is largely not subject to U.S. tax based on the Company’s good-faith estimate of its accumulated earnings and profits. In addition, the Company also continues to assert that this transaction results in an off-balance sheet arrangement and a possible contingent tax liability of the Company, which, if recognized, would be offset by the calling by the Company on S&T of the indemnification provisions of the Agreement. 11 Table of Contents In February 2011, upon the request of S&T to the Company, the Company and S&T agreed that the collateral pledged as a part of the Agreement would no longer be required and such collateral was returned by the Company to S&T in March 2011 and the Agreement was amended and restated to remove the collateral requirement but retain the indemnification provisions. The Agreement, as amended (the “Amended Agreement”), remains in effect as of today. In September 2014, the Company, with S&T’s consent, withheld $0.5 million in cash, to be pledged as collateral against the Amended Agreement, from the dividend paid to S&T on September 30, 2014 along with such dividend paid on that date to all common stockholders. The Company holds, as of March 31, 2015, $0.5 million in cash collateral from S&T against the Amended Agreement. In the event that (i) the Company is not successful in establishing with the IRS that the Company’s calculations were correct and (ii) S&T is unable or unwilling to pay the additional taxes due or indemnify the Company under the terms of the Amended Agreement, the Company may be liable to pay such additional taxes, which, together with penalties and interest, are currently estimated by the Company to be approximately $4.8 million as of March 31, 2015, $0.5 million of which is collateralized in cash held by the Company as of March 31, 2015 as described above and which is classified by the Company as restricted cash on its balance sheet. Any such liability, should it be required to be recognized by the Company, would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in the period recognized. S&T is a subsidiary of Grande, which is currently in liquidation (as described above under “Controlling Shareholder”). Therefore, the ability of the Company to enforce its rights to indemnification under the Amended Agreement and to collect from S&T any additional taxes, interest and penalties due may be severely impaired. The failure by the Company to maintain its relationships with Funai and its other licensees and distributors or the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues, earnings and business. The Company maintains agreements that allow licensees to use the Company’s trademarks for the manufacture and sale of specific consumer electronics and other products. In addition, the Company maintains agreements for the distribution of products bearing its brands into defined geographic areas. Although the Company has entered into agreements with certain of its licensees and distributors of its products, most have terms of three years or less, including the Company’s agreement with Funai, which accounts for approximately 86% of the Company’s total licensing revenue and which contributes substantial product volume and market presence through Funai’s manufacture and distribution of products utilizing the Emerson® brand name in the United States. Although the agreement with Funai has been amended and extended several times, including most recently in December 2013 to extend the term of the agreement until March 31, 2018, the Company cannot assure that the Funai license or any other such agreements will be renewed in the future or that the Company’s relationships with its licensees, including Funai, or distributors will be maintained on satisfactory terms or at all. The failure to maintain its relationships with Funai and other licensees and distributors on terms satisfactory to the Company, the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships or the failure by the Company’s licensees to protect the integrity and reputation of the Company’s trademarks could materially and adversely affect the Company’s licensing revenues and earnings. In addition, since the Funai license provides a substantial contribution to and enhancement of the Emerson® brand name in the U.S. marketplace, the failure by the Company to maintain its relationship and licensing agreement with Funai on terms satisfactory to the Company could also materially and adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company depends on a limited number of suppliers for its products. If our relationships with such suppliers terminate or are otherwise impaired, we would likely experience increased costs, disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a material loss of net sales. Although there are multiple potential suppliers for each of the Company’s products, the Company relies and is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for its main products, all of which are located outside of the United States. The Company does not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of its suppliers. Midea was the Company’s largest supplier and accounted for 66% of the Company’s purchases of products during fiscal 2015. The Company’s failure to maintain existing relationships with its suppliers or to establish new relationships on similar pricing and credit terms in the future could negatively affect the Company’s ability to obtain products in a timely manner. If the Company is unable to obtain an ample supply of product from its existing suppliers or secure alternative sources of supply, it may be unable to satisfy its customers’ orders, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and relationships with its customers. Finding replacement suppliers could be a time consuming process during which the Company’s revenues and liquidity could be negatively impacted (see Item 1A “Risk Factors — Business Related Risks — “Uncertain Impact of Appointment of Provisional Liquidators for Grande, Emerson’s Controlling Shareholder”). Increases in costs of products may materially reduce the Company’s profitability. Factors that are largely beyond the Company’s control, such as the cost, quality and availability of the raw materials and components needed by suppliers of the Company’s products, may affect the cost of such products, and the Company may not be able to pass those costs on to its customers. As an example, when the prices of petroleum increase significantly, the Company’s profitability may be negatively impacted. 12 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to deliver products in the required amounts and in a timely fashion, the Company could experience delays or reductions in shipments to its customers, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and relationships with its customers. The Company’s ability to provide high quality customer service, process and fulfill orders, and manage inventory depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation and timely and uninterrupted performance of its suppliers. The Company can provide no assurances that it will not experience operational difficulties with its suppliers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, increases in manufacturing costs and increased lead times. If the Company is unable to obtain products from these factories in the required quantities and quality and in a timely fashion, the Company could experience delays or reductions in product shipments to its customers, which could negatively affect the Company’s ability to meet the requirements of its customers, as well as its relationships with its customers, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results. All the Company’s suppliers are based in China and as a result the Company is subject to risks associated with international operations and global manufacturing and sourcing including, among others: • currency fluctuations; • labor disputes, such as the 2014 Los Angeles/Long Beach port strike, and union actions; • potential political, economic and social instability; • inclement weather and natural disasters; • possible acts of terrorism; • restrictions on transfers of funds; • changes in import and export duties and quotas; • changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs; • uncertainties involving the costs to transport products; • disruptions in the global transportation network; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • regulatory issues involved in dealing with foreign suppliers and in exporting and importing products; • protection of intellectual property; • difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Furthermore, any material disruption, slowdown or shutdown of the operation of the Company’s principal logistics providers and shippers, including without limitation as a result of labor disputes, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping containers and increased security restrictions, could cause delays in the Company’s ability to receive, process and fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused. As a result, the Company’s relationships with its customers, revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on a third-party logistics provider for the storage and distribution of our products in the United States and, if such third party logistics provider incurs any damage to the facilities where our products are stored or is unable to distribute our products as needed, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. We rely on a third-party logistics provider for the storage and distribution of our products. The facilities where our products are stored by such provider may also be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including earthquakes, power outages, communications failure or terrorism. Any material damage to the facilities where our products are stored could adversely affect our inventory and the ability of such third-party logistics provider to meet the needs of our customers. In addition, an inability to maintain our contracts with such third-party logistics providers or a disruption or slowdown in the operations of such third-party logistics providers, including as a result of damage to the facilities of such providers or a strike by such providers, could cause delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, our products to be returned or receipt of products to be refused, any of which could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Our contract with our third-party logistics provider is terminable upon written notice by either party for convenience without cause. If we are unable to maintain our contract with our third-party logistics provider, we would be required to retain a new third party logistics provider and we may be unable to retain such third party at a cost that is acceptable to us. If our shipping costs were to increase as a result of an increase by such third-party logistics providers or as a result of obtaining a new third-party logistics provider and if we are unable to pass on these higher costs to our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. 13 Table of Contents The Company’s business could be materially and adversely affected if it cannot protect its intellectual property rights or if it infringes on the intellectual property rights of others. The Company’s ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to maintain and protect its proprietary rights. The Company owns the Emerson® and other trademarks, which are materially important to its business, as well as other trademarks, patents, licenses and proprietary rights that are used for certain of the products that it markets and sells. The Company’s trademarks are registered throughout the world, including the United States and other countries. The Company also has two patents in the United States on its SmartSet® technology, both of which expire in September 2018. The laws of some foreign countries in which the Company operates may not protect the Company’s proprietary rights to the same extent as do laws in the United States. The protections afforded by the laws of such countries may not be adequate to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any trademarks, patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to the Company. In addition, in the event third party licensees fail to protect the integrity of the Company’s trademarks, the value of these marks could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s inability to protect its proprietary rights could materially and adversely affect the license of its trade names, trademarks and patents to third parties as well as its ability to sell its products. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights, protect the Company’s trade secrets; and determine the scope and validity of such intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention from the operation of the Company’s business. The Company may receive notices of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Such actions could result in litigation and the Company could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending such claims. The party making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief. Such relief could effectively block the Company’s ability to make, use, sell, distribute or market its products and services in such jurisdiction. The Company may also be required to seek licenses to such intellectual property. The Company cannot predict, however, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, that such licenses could be obtained on terms that are commercially reasonable and acceptable to the Company. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could delay or preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of its products and could result in increased costs to the Company. The Company’s revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected if it cannot anticipate market trends or enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products. The Company’s success is dependent on its ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands and trends in a timely manner, as well as expanding into new markets and developing new products that are profitable to the Company. In addition, to increase the Company’s penetration of current markets and gain footholds in new markets for its products, the Company must maintain its existing products and integrate them with new products. The Company may not be successful in developing, marketing and releasing new products that respond to technological developments or changing customer needs and preferences. The Company may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of these new products. These new products may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If release dates of any future products or enhancements to the Company’s products are delayed, or if these products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance when released, the Company’s sales volume may decline and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, new products or enhancements by the Company’s competitors may cause customers to defer or forgo purchases of the Company’s products, which could also materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and earnings. The Company does not maintain any credit facilities (other than certain letters of credit) and relies on its cash on hand and cash generated from operations to fund its business. The Company does not maintain any credit facilities (other than certain letters of credit) in connection with the operation of its business. The Company has relied on, and continues to rely on, its cash on hand and cash generated by operations to manage its business. 14 Table of Contents Foreign regulations and changes in the political, social and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which the Company operates its business could affect the Company’s revenues and earnings materially and adversely. The Company has operations in China and derives a significant portion of its revenue from sales of products manufactured by third parties located in China. In addition, third parties located in China and other countries located in the same region produce and supply many of the components and raw materials used in the Company’s products. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to generate revenues and could subject the Company to increased costs. Among the factors that may adversely affect the Company’s revenues and increase its costs are: • currency fluctuations which could cause an increase in the price of the components and raw materials used in the Company’s products and a decrease in its profits; • Chinese labor laws; • labor shortages affecting the Company’s facilities and its suppliers’ manufacturing facilities located in China; • the elimination or reduction of value-added tax refunds to Chinese factories that manufacture products for export; • the rise of inflation and substantial economic growth in China; • more stringent export restrictions in the countries in which the Company operates which could adversely affect its ability to deliver its products to its customers; • tariffs and other trade barriers which could make it more expensive for the Company to obtain and deliver its products to its customers; • political instability and economic downturns in these countries which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain its products from its manufacturers or deliver its products to its customers in a timely fashion; • new restrictions on the sale of electronic products containing certain hazardous substances; and • the laws of China are likely to govern many of the Company’s supplier agreements. Any of the factors described above may materially and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and/or increase its operating expenses. The Company is subject to intense competition in the industry in which it operates, which could cause material changes in the selling price of its products or losses of its market share. The housewares and consumer electronics industry is highly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new products and features. The Company’s products compete in the low to medium-priced sector of the housewares and consumer electronics market and compete primarily on the basis of reliability, brand recognition, quality, price, design, consumer acceptance of the Emerson® trademark and quality service and support to retailers and its customers. The Company and many of its competitors are subject to factory cost increases, and the Company expects these pressures to continue. If these pressures are not mitigated by increases in selling price or cost reductions from the Company’s suppliers or changes in product mix, or if the consumers of the Company’s products change their buying habits as a result of the Company’s actions, the Company’s revenues and profits could be substantially reduced. As compared to the Company, many of its competitors have significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources and greater brand recognition. As a result, the Company’s competitors may be able to (i) adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; (ii) devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services; and (iii) respond more effectively to pricing pressures. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market, existing competitors expand their product mix or the Company expands into new markets. An increase in competition could result in material price reductions or loss of the Company’s market share. Changes in consumer spending and economic conditions may cause its quarterly operating results to fluctuate and cause its stock price to decline. The Company’s net revenue and operating results may vary significantly from year to year, which may adversely affect its results of operations and the market price for its common stock. Factors that may cause these fluctuations include: • changes in market and economic conditions; • the discretionary nature of consumers’ demands and spending patterns; 15 Table of Contents • variations in the sales of the Company’s products to its significant customers; • variations in manufacturing and supplier relationships; • if the Company is unable to correctly anticipate and provide for inventory requirements, it may not have sufficient inventory to deliver its products to its customers in a timely fashion or the Company may have excess inventory that it is unable to sell; • new product developments or introductions; • product reviews and other media coverage; • competition, including competitive price pressures; and • political instability, war, acts of terrorism or other disasters. If the Company’s third party sales representatives fail to adequately promote, market and sell the Company’s products, the Company’s revenues could significantly decrease. A significant portion of the Company’s product sales are made through third party sales representative organizations, whose members are not employees of the Company. The Company’s level of sales depends on the effectiveness of these organizations, as well as the effectiveness of its own employees. Some of these third party representatives may sell (and do sell), with the Company’s permission, competitive products of third parties as well as the Company’s products. During the Company’s fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, these organizations were responsible for approximately 61% and 64%, respectively, of its net revenues during such periods. In addition, one of these representative organizations was responsible for a significant portion of these revenues. If any of the Company’s third party sales representative organizations engaged by the Company, especially the Company’s largest, fails to adequately promote, market and sell its products, the Company’s revenues could be significantly decreased until a replacement organization or distributor could be retained by the Company. Finding replacement organizations and distributors could be a time consuming process during which the Company’s revenues could be negatively impacted. The Company could be exposed to product liability or other claims for which its product liability or other insurance may be inadequate. A failure of any of the products marketed by the Company may subject it to the risk of product liability claims and litigation arising from injuries allegedly caused by the improper functioning or design of its products. Although the Company currently maintains product liability insurance in amounts which the Company considers adequate, the Company cannot assure that: • its insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities; • adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or • its insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms. Although the Company maintains liability insurance in amounts that it considers adequate, the Company cannot assure that such policies will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. To the extent product liability or other litigation losses are beyond the limits or scope of the Company’s insurance coverage, the Company’s expenses could materially increase. Forward-Looking Information This report contains forward looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 under Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include statements with respect to the Company’s beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, and future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond the Company’s control, and which may cause its actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements through the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “can,” “anticipate,” “assume,” “should,” “indicate,” “would,” “believe,” “contemplate,” “expect,” “seek,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “could,” “intend,” “target,” “potential,” and other similar words and expressions of the future. These forward-looking statements may not be realized due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation: • the impact, if any, on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation arising from the appointment of the Provisional Liquidators over Grande see Item 1A “Risk Factors — Business Related Risks — “Uncertain Impact of Appointment of Provisional Liquidators for Grande, Emerson’s Controlling Shareholder”; 16 Table of Contents • the decline in, and any further deterioration of, consumer spending for retail products, such as the Company’s products; • the Company’s inability to resist price increases from its suppliers or pass through such increases to its customers; • the loss of any of the Company’s key customers or reduction in the purchase of the Company’s products by any such customers; • conflicts of interest that exist based on the Company’s relationship with Grande; • the Company’s inability to maintain effective internal controls or the failure by its personnel to comply with such internal controls; • the Company’s inability to maintain its relationships with its licensees and distributors or the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships on favorable terms; • cash generated by operating activities represents the Company’s principal source of funding and therefore the Company depends on its ability to successfully manage its operating cash flows to fund its operations; • the Company’s inability to anticipate market trends, enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products; • the Company’s dependence on a limited number of suppliers for its components and raw materials; • the Company’s dependence on third party manufacturers to manufacture and deliver its products; • changes in consumer spending and economic conditions; • the failure of third party sales representatives to adequately promote, market and sell the Company’s products; • the Company’s inability to protect its intellectual property; • the effects of competition; • changes in foreign laws and regulations and changes in the political and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which the Company operates; • changes in accounting policies, rules and practices; • limited access to financing or increased cost of financing; and • the effects of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and Chinese renminbi relative to the dollar and increases in costs of production in China; and • the other factors listed under “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary notice. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report or the date of the document incorporated by reference into this annual report. The Company has no obligation, and expressly disclaim any obligation, to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The Company has expressed its expectations, beliefs and projections in good faith and the Company believes they have a reasonable basis. However, the Company cannot assure the reader that its expectations, beliefs or projections will result or be achieved or accomplished. 