RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider these risk factors in addition to our financial statements, including the notes to such financial statements. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. BUSINESS RELATED RISKS The loss, or significant reduction in business of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart and Target, could negatively affect our revenues and could decrease our earnings. We are highly dependent upon sales of our consumer electronic products to certain of our customers, including Wal-Mart and Target. During our fiscal years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, Wal-Mart stores accounted for approximately 30% and 25%, respectively, and Target stores accounted for approximately 12% and 15%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues. Although no other customer in either of our operating segments accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated net revenues during these periods, other customers may account for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenues in future periods. All purchases of our products by customers in both of our operating segments are made through purchase orders and we do not have any long-term contracts with any of our customers. The loss of Wal-Mart or Target, or any of our other customers to which we sell a significant amount of our products or any significant portion of orders from Wal-Mart or Target, or such other customers or any material adverse change in the financial condition of such customers could negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings. 16 The failure to maintain our relationships with our licensees, licensors and distributors or the failure to obtain new licensees, licensors or distribution relationships could negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings. We maintain license agreements that allow licensees to use our Emerson(R) and H.H. Scott(R) trademarks for the manufacture and sale of consumer electronics and other products. In addition, we maintain distribution agreements for the distribution of our consumer electronics products into defined geographic areas. Although we have entered into agreements with certain of our licensees and distributors of consumer electronics products, most of which have a term of three years or less and expire between March 2006 and February 2010, including our agreement with Funai, we cannot assure that such agreements will be renewed when the terms of such agreements expire, or that our relationships with our licensees or distributors will be maintained on satisfactory terms or at all. The failure to maintain our relationships with Funai and our other licensees and distributors, the failure to obtain new licensees or distribution relationships or the failure by our licensees to protect the integrity and reputation of our Emerson(R) and H.H. Scott(R) trademarks could negatively affect our licensing revenues and decrease our earnings. In addition, we maintain license agreements with MTV Networks to license the Nickelodeon name, trademark and logo, along with several of Nickelodeon's trademarks and logos, each of which expire in December 2006. We may not be able to renew the license on terms favorable to us or at all. The failure to maintain our relationship with MTV Networks or other licensors could negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings. Our sporting goods business licenses certain well-known names and trademarks, including MacGregor(R) that expires in 2040, and allows us to manufacture, promote, sell and distribute specified products and equipment. Although the MacGregor(R) agreement expires in 2040, we cannot be assured that our relationship with MacGregor(R) will be maintained on satisfactory terms or at all. The non-renewal or termination of one or more of our material licenses in our sporting goods business would eliminate our ability to sell products bearing such names and trademarks and decrease our earnings. Our revenues and earnings could be negatively affected if we cannot anticipate market trends or enhance existing products or achieve market acceptance of new products. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands and trends in a timely manner. In addition, to increase our penetration of current markets and gain footholds in new markets for our products, we must maintain existing products and integrate them with new products. We may not be successful in developing, marketing and releasing new products that respond to technological developments or changing customer needs and preferences. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of these new products. In addition, these new products may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. If release dates of any future products or enhancements to our products are delayed, or if these products or enhancements fail to achieve market acceptance when released, our sales volume may decline and earnings could be negatively affected. In addition, new products or enhancements by our competitors may cause customers to defer or forgo purchases of our products, which could also negatively affect our revenues and earnings. 17 We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our components and raw materials and any interruption in the availability of these components and raw materials used in our products could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationship with our customers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers, most of which are located outside of the United States, for the components and raw materials used in our consumer electronics and sporting good products. Although there are many suppliers for each of our component parts and raw materials, we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for many of the significant components and raw materials. This reliance involves a number of significant risks, including: o lack of availability of materials and interruptions in delivery of components and raw materials from our suppliers; o manufacturing delays caused by such lack of availability or interruptions in delivery; o fluctuations in the quality and the price of components and raw materials, in particular due to the petroleum price impact on such materials; and o risks related to foreign operations. We do not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of our suppliers. StarLite, Lasco Industries and Oxygen are our largest suppliers of components for our consumer electronics products, each of which accounted for more than 10% of our purchases of components for our consumer electronics products for our latest fiscal year. Our failure to maintain existing relationships with our suppliers or to establish new relationships in the future could also negatively affect our ability to obtain our components and raw materials used in our products in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain ample supply of product from our existing suppliers or alternative sources of supply, we may be unable to satisfy our customers' orders which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationship with our customers. The operating results of our sporting good segment may continue to be affected by budgetary restrictions of schools and government agencies. A substantial portion of our sporting goods product revenues are generated through sales to the institutional market, including: o public and private schools; o colleges and universities; o military academies; o municipal and governmental agencies; o military and correctional facilities; o youth sports leagues. 18 As a result, our sporting goods business is substantially dependent on the budgetary allowances of schools as well as local, state and federal government agencies. Restrictions or reductions to the budgeted spending of these entities could reduce the amount of goods purchased from us and could materially adversely affect our revenues and earnings. If our original equipment manufacturers are unable to deliver our products in the required amounts and in a timely fashion, we could experience delays or reductions in shipments to our customers which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationship with our customers. All of our consumer electronic products and approximately 23.0% of our sporting good products are manufactured in accordance with our specifications by original equipment manufacturers principally located in: o South Korea; o China; o Malaysia; o Thailand; and o Taiwan If we are unable to obtain our products from the original equipment manufacturers located in these countries in the required quantities and quality and in a timely fashion, we could experience delays or reductions in product shipments to our customers which could negatively affect our ability to meet the requirements of our customers, as well as our relationships with our customers. Unanticipated disruptions in our operations or slowdowns by our suppliers, manufacturers and shipping companies could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products and service our customers which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationship with our customers. Our ability to provide high quality customer service, process and fulfill orders and manage inventory depends on: o the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our call center, distribution center and manufacturing facilities related to our sporting goods segment; and o the timely and uninterrupted performance of third party manufacturers and suppliers, shipping companies, and dock workers relating to both our consumer electronics and sporting goods segments. 19 Any material disruption or slowdown in the operation of our call center, distribution center, manufacturing facilities or management information systems, or comparable disruptions or slowdowns suffered by our principal manufacturers, suppliers and shippers could cause delays in our ability to receive, process and fulfill customer orders and may cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused. Our sporting goods segment ships approximately 60% of its products using United Parcel Service. A strike by UPS or any of our other major carriers or any other disruption in our ability or our customer's ability to receive our products as a result of a strike or otherwise could materially adversely affect our results of operations as a result of our failure to deliver our products in a timely manner and using other more expensive freight carriers. The operations of our sporting goods segment are subject to high fixed costs, which could adversely affect our earnings. The operations and maintenance of our call center, distribution center, manufacturing facilities and management information systems related to our sporting goods segment involve substantial fixed costs. Paper and postage are significant components of our sporting goods segment operating costs. Catalog mailings entail substantial paper, postage, and costs associated with catalog development, each of which is subject to price fluctuations. If net revenues are substantially below expectations, these fixed costs may not be proportionately reduced and could materially adversely affect the earnings of our sporting goods segment and, in turn, our consolidated earnings. Our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected by foreign regulations and changes in the political, public health and economic conditions in the foreign countries in which we operate our business. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales of products manufactured by third parties located primarily in China, South Korea, Malaysia, Thailand and Taiwan. In addition, third parties located in these and other countries located in the same region produce and supply many of the components and raw materials used in our products. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and could subject us to increased costs. The main factors that may adversely affect our revenues and increase our costs are: o currency fluctuations which could cause an increase in the price of the components and raw materials used in our products and a decrease in our profits; o more stringent export restrictions in the countries in which we operate which could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products to our customers; o tariffs and other trade barriers which could make it more expensive for us to obtain and deliver our products to our customers; o political instability and economic downturns in these countries which could adversely affect our ability to obtain our products from our manufacturers or deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion; and o seasonal reductions in business activity in these countries during the summer months which could adversely affect our sales. 20 In addition, the prior outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which had particular impact in China, Hong Kong and Singapore, had a negative effect on our consumer electronics operations. Our operations, including our ability to obtain our products in a timely fashion, could be impacted again, including disrupting the operation of our suppliers, manufacturers and shipping companies, each of which could adversely affect our earnings, should SARS reoccur in the future. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, many of these risks and cannot predict the impact of any particular risk on our operations. However, any of these factors may materially adversely affect our revenues and/or increase our operating expenses. The seasonality of our business, as well as changes in consumer spending and economic conditions, may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Our net revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. The main factors that may cause these fluctuations are: o seasonal variations in operating results; o variations in the sales of our products to our significant customers; o increases in returned consumer electronics products in the March quarter which follows our peak September and December selling quarters; o variations in manufacturing and supplier relationships; o if we are unable to correctly anticipate and provide for inventory requirements from quarter to quarter, we may not have sufficient inventory to deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion or we may have excess inventory that we are unable to sell; o the discretionary nature of our customers' demands and spending patterns; o changes in market and economic conditions; and o competition. In addition, our quarterly operating results could be materially adversely affected by political instability, war, acts of terrorism or other disasters. Sales of our consumer electronics products are somewhat seasonal due to consumer spending patterns, which tend to result in significantly stronger sales in our September and December fiscal quarters, especially as a result of the holiday season. Our sporting goods segment is also somewhat seasonal due to stronger demand for its products during the March fiscal quarter due to volume generated by spring and summer sports, favorable outdoor weather conditions and school needs before summer closings. These patterns will probably not change significantly in the future. Although we believe that the seasonality of our business is based primarily on the timing of consumer demand for our products, fluctuations in operating results can also result from other factors affecting us and our competitors, including new product developments or introductions, availability of products for resale, competitive pricing pressures, changes in product mix, pricing and product reviews and other media coverage. Due to the seasonality of our business, our results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of our results for the year. 21 Our sales and earnings can also be affected by changes in the general economy since purchases of consumer electronics and sporting goods are generally discretionary for consumers and subject to budgetary constraints by schools and government agencies. Our success is influenced by a number of economic factors affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, budgetary restrictions of schools and government agencies, interest rates and taxation rates. Adverse changes in these economic factors, among others, may restrict consumer spending or increase budgetary restrictions at schools and government agencies, thereby negatively affecting our sales and profitability. As a result of these and other factors, revenues for any quarter are subject to significant variation, which may adversely affect our results of operations and the market price for our common stock. If our third party sales representatives fail to adequately promote, market and sell our consumer electronic products, our revenues could significantly decrease. A portion of our consumer electronic product sales are made through third party sales representative organizations, whose members are not our employees. Our level of sales depends on the effectiveness of these organizations, as well as the effectiveness of our own employees. Some of these third party representatives may sell, with our permission, competitive products manufactured by other third parties as well as our products. During our fiscal years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, these organizations were responsible for approximately 45% and 49%, respectively, of our net consumer electronics revenues during such periods. In addition, two of these representative organizations were responsible for a significant portion of these revenues. If any of our third party sales representative organizations engaged by us, especially our two largest, fails to adequately promote, market and sell our consumer electronics products, our revenues could be significantly decreased until a replacement organization or distributor could be retained by us. Finding replacement organizations and distributors could be a time consuming process during which our revenues could be negatively impacted. The ownership of our common stock by Geoffrey P. Jurick, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, substantially reduces the influence of our other stockholders. Geoffrey Jurick, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, owns approximately 38.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Geoffrey Jurick currently has the ability to influence significantly the actions that require stockholder approval, including: o the election of our directors; and o the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. 22 As a result, our other stockholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. In January 2005, Geoffrey P. Jurick, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Emerson Radio Corp., obtained a $16 million loan from a foreign financial institution. The loan (which, prior to extension, came due on April 20, 2005) currently matures on July 20, 2005, is guaranteed by a third party unaffiliated with Emerson and is secured by a pledge by Mr. Jurick of approximately 10 million shares of his Emerson common stock (approximately 38% of Emerson's common stock). If the loan term is not further extended and the loan is not repaid at maturity, the stock could be utilized to satisfy Mr. Jurick's obligations. We may seek to make acquisitions that prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our management's attention and our capital resources. We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of related businesses. Such acquisitions present risks that could materially adversely affect our earnings, including: o the diversion of our management's attention from our everyday business activities; o the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired business; o the incurring of additional expenses related to such acquisitions, whether or not such acquisitions are consummated; o the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business; and o the need to expand management, administration and operational systems. If we make such acquisitions, we cannot predict whether: o we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of any new businesses into our business; o we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; or o there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in: o potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; o the incurrence of additional debt; and o the recognition of significant charges for depreciation and amortization related to goodwill and other intangible assets. 23 We continuously evaluate potential acquisitions of related businesses. However, competition for such potential acquisitions is intense and we have not reached any agreement or arrangement with respect to any particular acquisition and we may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. We are subject to intense competition in the industries in which we operate, which could cause material reductions in the selling price of our products or losses of our market share. The consumer electronics industry and the institutional market for sporting goods and leisure products are highly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new products and features. Our consumer electronics segment competes in the low to medium-priced sector of the consumer electronics market and competes primarily on the basis of: o reliability; o quality; o price; o design; o consumer acceptance of the Emerson(R) trademark; and o quality service and support to retailers and our customers. Our sporting goods segment competes in the institutional sporting goods market principally with local sporting goods dealers, retail sporting goods stores, other direct mail catalog marketers and providers of sporting goods on the Internet. Our sporting goods segment competes principally on the basis of: o brand; o quality; o price; o product availability; and o customer service. 24 In recent years we and many of our competitors have regularly lowered prices, and we expect these pricing pressures to continue. If these pricing pressures are not mitigated by increases in volume, cost reductions or changes in product mix, our revenues and profits could be substantially reduced. As compared to us, many of our competitors have: o significantly longer operating histories; o significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources; and o greater name recognition. As a result, our competitors may be able to: o adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; o devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services; and o respond more effectively to pricing pressures. These factors could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, competition could increase if: o new companies enter the market; o existing competitors expand their product mix; or o we expand into new markets. An increase in competition could result in material price reductions or loss of our market share. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary rights. We own the Emerson(R) trademark, which is materially important to our business, as well as our license, other trademarks and proprietary rights that are used for certain of our home entertainment and consumer electronics products. In addition, we license names and trademarks in connection with our sporting goods business. Our trademarks are registered throughout the world, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, France, Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom. However, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us. In addition, in the event third party licensees fail to protect the integrity of our trademarks, the value of these marks could be adversely affected. 25 The laws of some foreign countries in which we operate may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do laws in the United States. The protections afforded by the laws of such countries may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect the license of our trade names and trademarks to third parties as well as our ability to sell our products. Litigation may be necessary to: o enforce our intellectual property rights; o protect our trade secrets; and o determine the scope and validity of such intellectual property rights. Any such litigation, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management's attention from the operation of our business. We may receive notice of claims of infringement of other parties' proprietary rights. Such actions could result in litigation and we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending such claims. The party making such claims could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief. Such relief could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute or market our products and services in such jurisdiction. We may also be required to seek licenses to such intellectual property. We cannot predict, however, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, that such licenses could be obtained on terms that are commercially reasonable and acceptable to us. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could delay or preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products and could result in increased costs to us. We could be exposed to product liability or other claims for which our product liability or other insurance may be inadequate. A failure of any of the products marketed by us, particularly those products sold by our sporting goods segment, may subject us to the risk of product liability claims and litigation arising from injuries allegedly caused by the improper functioning or design of our products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance in amounts which we consider adequate, we cannot assure that: o our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities; o adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or o our insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms. We and certain of our officers and directors, are party to a class action lawsuit and we cannot assure the outcome of such litigation. Although we maintain liability insurance in amounts that we consider adequate, we cannot assure that such policies will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. To the extent product liability or other litigation losses are beyond the limits or scope of our insurance coverage, our expenses could materially increase. See Item 3 - "Legal Proceedings". 26 The inability to use our tax net operating losses could result in a charge to earnings and could require us to pay higher taxes. Both Emerson and SSG have substantial tax net operating losses available to reduce taxable income for federal and state income tax purposes. A portion of the benefit associated with the tax net operating losses has been recognized as a deferred tax asset in our financial statements and could be used to reduce our tax liability in future profitable periods. We believe these net deferred tax assets will be realized through tax planning strategies available in future periods and future profitable operating results. Although realization is not assured at either Emerson or SSG, we believe it is more likely than not that all of the remaining net deferred tax assets will be realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be reduced or eliminated in the near term if certain tax planning strategies are not successfully executed, or estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period is reduced. In addition, transactions consummated by us or Geoffrey Jurick, that together with other transactions consummated by Emerson, SSG or Mr. Jurick or that involve the common stock of Emerson or SSG, are deemed collectively to result in a change of control of Emerson or SSG, respectively, and under the tax code could limit the use of our tax net operating losses. In the event that either Emerson or SSG is unable to utilize its tax net operating losses in a reasonable time frame, it would be required to adjust its deferred tax asset on its financial statements which would result in a charge to earnings. Additionally, should the utilization of tax net operating losses be limited, we would be required to pay a greater amount of taxes in future periods. Our existing indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funds and may increase our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. From time to time we incur debt in connection with our operations. As a result, we may be subject to the risks associated with indebtedness, including: o we must dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to pay debt service costs and, as a result, we have less funds available for operations and other purposes; o it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financings, if available at all; o we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and o if we default under any of our existing credit facilities or if our creditors demand payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. 27 We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure our borrowings under our credit facilities and are subject to covenants that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Our indebtedness under our credit facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets. If we default under the indebtedness secured by our assets, those assets would be available to the secured creditor to satisfy our obligations to the secured creditor. In addition, our credit facilities impose certain restrictive covenants, including financial, ownership, operational and net worth covenants. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could result in all or any of the following: o acceleration of the payment of our outstanding indebtedness; o our inability to borrow additional amounts under our existing financing arrangements; and o our inability to secure financing on favorable terms or at all from alternative sources. Any of these consequences could significantly reduce the amount of cash and financing available to us which in turn would adversely affect our ability to operate our business, including acquiring our products from our manufacturers and distributing our products to our customers. MARKET RELATED RISKS The market price of our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations from time to time. The market price for our common stock and for securities of similar companies has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Factors which may affect our market price include: o market conditions in the industries in which we operate; o competition; o sales or the possibility of sales of our common stock; o our results of operations and financial condition; and o general economic conditions. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it harder for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors and management. 28 Several provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This report contains various forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Reform Act") and information that is based on management's beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. When used in this report, the words "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "predict", "project", and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We cannot guarantee the accuracy of the forward-looking statements, and you should be aware that our actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including the statements under "Risk Factors" set forth above and "Critical Accounting Policies" set forth in Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". Due to these uncertainties and risks, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. 