ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, our corporate credit ratings and the ratings for our securities are as follows: Fitch Moody's Standard & Poor's Corporate Credit Rating n/r Baa2 BBB- EDE First Mortgage Bonds BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ EDE First Mortgage Bonds 혰 Pollution Control Series AAA Aaa AAA Senior Notes BBB Baa2 BB+ Trust Preferred Securities BBB- Baa3 BB Commercial Paper F2 P-2 A-3 Outlook Negative Negative Stable The ratings indicate the agencies' assessment of our ability to pay interest, distributions and principal on these securities. A rating is not a recommendation to purchase, sell or hold securities and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The lower the rating, the higher the interest cost of the securities when they are sold. In addition, a downgrade in our senior unsecured long-term debt rating would result in an increase in our borrowing costs under our bank credit facility. If any of our ratings fall below investment grade (investment grade is defined as Baa3 or above for Moody's and BBB- or above for Standard & Poor's and Fitch), our ability to issue short-term debt, commercial paper or other securities or to market those securities would be impaired or made more difficult or expensive. Therefore, any such downgrades could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, our senior unsecured debt rating from Standard & Poor's is BB+ (a non-investment grade rating). In addition, on February 14, 2008, Moody's placed all of our ratings on review for possible downgrade. This action, as well as any actual downgrade of our commercial paper rating from Moody's, may make it difficult for us to issue commercial paper. To the extent we are unable to issue commercial paper, we will need to meet our short-term debt needs through borrowings under our higher-cost revolving credit facility. We cannot assure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. We are exposed to market risk in our fuel procurement strategy and may incur losses from these activities. We have established a risk management practice of purchasing contracts for future fuel needs to meet underlying customer needs. Within this activity, we may incur losses from these contracts. These losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. By using physical and financial instruments, we are exposed to credit risk and market risk. Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty might fail to fulfill its obligations under contractual terms. Market risk is the exposure to a change in the value of commodities caused by fluctuations in market variables, such as price. The fair value of derivative financial instruments we hold is adjusted cumulatively on a monthly basis until prescribed determination periods. At the end of each determination period, which is the last day of each calendar month in the period, any realized gain or loss for that period related to the contract will be reclassified to fuel expense. 21 We are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. The utility commissions in the states where we operate regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including the rates that we can charge customers, siting and construction of facilities, pipeline safety and compliance, customer service and our ability to recover increases in our fuel and purchased power costs. The FERC has jurisdiction over wholesale rates for electric transmission service and electric energy sold in interstate commerce. Federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities. Information concerning recent filings requesting increases in rates and related matters is set forth under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 혰 Rate Matters." We are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Despite our requests, these regulatory commissions have sole discretion to leave rates unchanged, grant increases or order decreases in the base rates we charge our utility customers. They have similar authority with respect to our recovery of increases in our fuel and purchased power costs. If our costs increase and we are unable to recover increased costs through base rates or fuel adjustment clauses, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A combination of increases in customer demand, decreases in output from our power plants and/or the failure of performance by purchased power contract counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If demand for power increases significantly and rapidly (due to weather or other conditions) and either our power plants do not operate as planned or the parties with which we have contracted to purchase power are not able to, or fail to, deliver that power, we would be forced to purchase power in the spot-market. Those unforeseen costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Item 1, "Business 혰 Fuel and Natural Gas Supply", Item 2, "Properties 혰 Electric Segment Facilities" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for more information. We are exposed to increases in costs and reductions in revenue which we cannot control and which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The primary drivers of our electric operating revenues in any period are: (1) rates we can charge our customers, (2) weather, (3) customer growth and (4) general economic conditions. Of the factors driving revenues, weather has the greatest short-term effect on the demand for electricity for our regulated business. Mild weather reduces demand and, as a result, our electric operating revenues. Weather can also impact the revenues of our natural gas utility business. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our natural gas service territory and a significant amount of our natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating seasons. Accordingly, our natural gas operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter. The primary drivers of our electric operating expenses in any period are: (1) fuel and purchased power expense, (2) maintenance and repairs expense, including repairs following severe weather and plant outages, (3) taxes and (4) non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization expense. Of the factors driving expenses, fuel and purchased power costs are our largest expense items. Increases in the price of natural gas or the cost of purchased power will result in increases in electric operating expenses. Our 22 existing strategies for mitigating such risks include hedging against changes in natural gas prices and utilizing fuel adjustment mechanisms to recover actual fuel and purchased power expenses. Such efforts, however, may not offset or permit us to recover all of such increased costs. Therefore, significant increases in electric operating expenses or reductions in electric operating revenues may occur and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to recover increases in the cost of natural gas from our natural gas utility customers, or may lose customers as a result of any price increases. In our natural gas utility business, we are permitted to recover the cost of gas directly from our customers through the use of a purchased gas adjustment provision. However, this provision only permits the recovery of "prudently incurred" costs. To the extent the MPSC determines that any of our costs were not prudently incurred, we would have to repay any such amounts that we collected from customers as part of an annual reconciliation. In addition, increases in natural gas costs affect total prices to our customers and, therefore, the competitive position of gas relative to electricity and other forms of energy. Increases in natural gas costs may also result in lower usage by customers unable to switch to alternate fuels. Such disallowed costs or customer losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in coal deliveries could require us to reduce the output of our coal-fired generating facilities and lead to increases in our fuel and purchased power costs. We depend upon regular deliveries of coal as fuel for our Riverton, Asbury and Iatan plants, and as fuel for the facility which supplies us with purchased power under our contract with Westar Energy. Substantially all of this coal comes from mines in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and is delivered to the plants by train. Production problems in these mines, railroad transportation or congestion problems, such as those that occurred in 2005 and 2006, or unavailability of trains could affect delivery cycle times required to maintain plant inventory levels, causing us to implement coal conservation and supply replacement measures to retain adequate reserve inventories at our facilities. These measures could include some or all of the following: reducing the output of our coal plants, increasing the utilization of our higher-cost gas-fired generation facilities, purchasing power from other suppliers, adding additional leased trains to our supply system and purchasing locally mined coal which can be delivered without using the railroads. Such measures could result in increases in our fuel and purchased power costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation with regard to air and other environmental matters. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, and new interpretations of existing environmental laws and regulations, have been adopted and may in the future be adopted which may substantially increase our future environmental expenditures for both new facilities and our existing facilities. Compliance with current and future air emission standards (such as those limiting emission levels of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) and, potentially, carbon dioxide (CO2)) has required, and may in the future require, significant environmental expenditures. Although we generally recover such costs through our rates, there can be no assurance that we will recover all, or any part of, such increased costs in future rate cases. The incurrence of additional material environmental costs which are not recovered in our rates may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 