ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, our corporate credit rating and the ratings for our securities are as follows: Standard & Poor’s Moody’s Fitch Corporate Credit Rating BBB Baa2 n/r First Mortgage Bonds A- Baa1 BBB+ First Mortgage Bonds — Pollution Control Series AAA Aaa n/r Senior Notes BBB- Baa2 BBB Trust Preferred Securities BB+ Baa3 BBB- Commercial Paper A-3 P-2 F2 Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch currently have a negative outlook, a stable outlook and a stable outlook, respectively, on Empire. These ratings indicate the agencies’ assessment of our ability to pay interest, distributions and principal on these securities. The lower the rating, the higher the interest cost of the securities when they are sold. If any of our ratings were to fall below investment grade (investment grade is defined as Baa3 or above for Moody’s and BBB- or above for Standard & Poor’s and Fitch), our ability to issue short-term debt, commercial paper or other securities or to market those securities would be impaired or made more difficult. We cannot assure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Any downgrade in our senior unsecured long-term debt rating would, under the terms of our revolving credit facility, result in an increase in our borrowing costs under that credit facility. Any downgrade below investment grade could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to market risk in our fuel procurement strategy and may incur losses from these activities. We have established a risk management practice of purchasing contracts for future fuel needs to meet underlying customer needs. Within this activity, we may incur losses from these contracts. These losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. By using physical and financial instruments, we are exposed to credit risk and market risk. Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty might fail to fulfill its obligations under contractual terms. Market risk is the exposure to a change in the value of commodities caused by fluctuations in market variables, such as price. The fair value of derivative financial instruments we hold is adjusted cumulatively on a monthly basis until prescribed determination periods. At the end of each determination period, which is the last day of each calendar month in the period, any realized gain or loss for that period related to the contract will be reclassified to fuel expense. We are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal and state utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. The utility commissions in the states where we operate regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service, our ability to recover increases in our fuel and purchased power costs and the rates that we can charge customers. 18 FERC has jurisdiction over wholesale rates for electric transmission service and electric energy sold in interstate commerce. Federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities. Information concerning recent filings requesting increases in rates and related matters is set forth under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Regulated Segment — Electric Operating Revenues and Kilowatt-Hour Sales — Rate Matters.” We are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Despite our requests, these regulatory commissions have sole discretion to leave rates unchanged, grant increases or order decreases in the base rates we charge our customers. They have similar authority with respect to our recovery of increases in our fuel and purchased power costs. In the event that our costs increase and we are unable to recover increased costs through base rates, interim energy charges or fuel adjustment clauses, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A combination of increases in customer demand, decreases in output from our power plants and/or the failure of performance by purchased power contract counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the event that demand for power increases significantly and rapidly (due to weather or other conditions) and either our power plants do not operate as planned or the parties with which we have contracted to purchase power are not able to, or fail to, deliver that power, we would be forced to purchase power in the spot-market. Those unforeseen costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Item 1, “Business — Fuel,” Item 2, “Properties — Electric Facilities” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Regulated Segment — Results of Operations — Operating Revenue Deductions” for more information. We are exposed to increases in costs and reductions in revenue which we cannot control and which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The primary drivers of our electric operating revenues in any period are: (1) rates we can charge our customers, (2) weather, (3) customer growth and (4) general economic conditions. The primary drivers of our electric operating expenses in any period are: (1) fuel and purchased power expense, (2) maintenance and repairs expense, (3) employee pension and health care costs, (4) taxes and (5) non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization expense. Of the factors driving revenues, weather has the greatest short-term effect on the demand for electricity for our regulated business. Mild weather reduces demand and, as a result, our electric operating revenues. Of the factors driving expenses, fuel and purchased power costs are our largest expense items. Increases in the price of natural gas or the cost of purchased power will result in increases in electric operating expenses. Our existing strategies for mitigating such risks include hedging against changes in natural gas prices and utilizing interim energy charges and fuel adjustment mechanisms to recover actual fuel and purchased power expenses. On February 1, 2006, we filed a request with the MPSC for an annual increase in base rates and a request for the new Missouri fuel adjustment mechanism for fuel cost recovery. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of this rate case filing. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Regulated Segment — Results of Operations — Rate Matters” for more information. Such efforts, however, may not offset or permit us to recover all of such increased costs. Therefore, significant increases in electric operating expenses or reductions in electric operating revenues may occur and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 We have recently experienced, and may continue to experience, coal delivery shortfalls which could require us to reduce the output of our coal-fired generating facilities and lead to increases in our fuel and purchased power costs. We depend upon regular deliveries of coal as fuel for our Riverton, Asbury and Iatan plants, and as fuel for the facility which supplies us with purchased power under our contract with Westar Energy. Substantially all of this coal comes from mines in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and is delivered to the plants by railroad. In recent months, due to widespread railroad congestion problems, the railroads have been unable to achieve the delivery cycle times required to maintain our plants’ inventory levels. As a result, inventory levels at our plants have declined. We expect that the railroads’ congestion problems and resulting delivery delays will continue for an indefinite period. As a result, we have implemented coal conservation and supply replacement measures to retain adequate reserve inventories at our facilities. These measures have included, or may include in the future, reducing the output of these plants, increasing the utilization of our gas-fired generation facilities, purchasing power from other suppliers, adding additional leased trains to our supply system and purchasing locally mined coal which can be delivered without using the railroads. Such measures may result in increases in our fuel and purchased power costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation with regard to air and other environmental matters. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, and new interpretations of existing environmental laws and regulations, have been adopted and may in the future be adopted which may substantially increase our future environmental expenditures for both new facilities and our existing facilities. Although we generally recover such costs through our rates, there can be no assurance that we will recover all, or any part of, such increased costs in future rate cases. The incurrence of additional material environmental costs which are not recovered in our rates may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future acquisitions, including the contemplated acquisition of the Missouri natural gas distribution operations of Aquila, Inc., are subject to integration and other risks. On September 21, 2005 we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Aquila, Inc. pursuant to which we agreed to acquire the Missouri natural gas distribution operations of Aquila. In addition, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, selectively acquire additional regulated and non-regulated businesses or assets that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. Acquisitions are accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In addition, we may not obtain the expected benefits or cost savings from the Missouri natural gas acquisition or any other acquisition. Further, acquisitions are subject to risks associated with the difficulty and expense of obtaining regulatory approval for the acquisitions, obtaining the necessary financing for the acquisitions and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or assets. If any of these risks materialize, they may result in disruptions to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, which could increase the costs of operating our existing or acquired businesses or negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 