ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, our corporate credit ratings and the ratings for our securities are as follows: Fitch Moody's Standard & Poor's Corporate Credit Rating n/r* Baa2 BBB- EDE First Mortgage Bonds BBB+ Baa1 BBB+ EDE First Mortgage Bonds — Pollution Control Series AAA Aaa AAA Senior Notes BBB Baa2 BBB- Trust Preferred Securities BBB- Baa3 BB Commercial Paper F2 P-2 A-3 Outlook Negative Negative Stable *Not rated. The ratings indicate the agencies' assessment of our ability to pay interest, distributions and principal on these securities. A rating is not a recommendation to purchase, sell or hold securities and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The lower the rating, the higher the interest cost of the securities when they are sold. In addition, a downgrade in our senior unsecured long-term debt rating would result in an increase in our borrowing costs under our bank credit facility. If any of our ratings fall below investment grade (investment grade is defined as Baa3 or above for Moody's and BBB- or above for Standard & Poor's and Fitch), our ability to issue short-term debt, commercial paper or other securities or to market those securities would be impaired or made more difficult or expensive. Therefore, any such downgrades could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any actual downgrade of our commercial paper rating from Moody's or Fitch, may make it difficult for us to issue commercial paper. To the extent we are unable to issue commercial paper, we will need to meet our short-term debt needs through borrowings under our revolving credit facility, which may result in higher costs. We cannot assure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. Financial market disruptions may increase financing costs, limit access to the credit markets or cause reductions in investment values in our pension plan assets. The recent general market declines resulting in part from the sub-prime mortgage issues have generally reduced access to the capital markets and reduced market returns on investments. We estimate our capital expenditures to be $168.9 million in 2009. Although we believe it is unlikely we will have difficulty accessing the markets for the capital needed to complete these projects, our financing costs will likely be higher when compared to previous years. The market's effect on our pension plan assets resulted in a negative return of 25.1% in 2008. This decline will likely result in increased funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006. We are exposed to factors that can increase our fuel and purchased power expenditures, including disruption in deliveries of coal or natural gas, decreased output from our power plants, failure of performance by purchased power counterparties and market lb in our fuel procurement strategy. Fuel and purchased power costs are our largest expenditures. Increases in the price of coal, natural gas or the cost of purchased power will result in increased electric operating expenditures. 22 Table of Contents We depend upon regular deliveries of coal as fuel for our Riverton, Asbury and Iatan plants, and as fuel for the facility which supplies us with purchased power under our contract with Westar Energy. Substantially all of this coal comes from mines in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and is delivered to the plants by train. Production problems in these mines, railroad transportation or congestion problems, such as those that occurred in 2005 and 2006, or unavailability of trains could affect delivery cycle times required to maintain plant inventory levels, causing us to implement coal conservation and supply replacement measures to retain adequate reserve inventories at our facilities. These measures could include some or all of the following: reducing the output of our coal plants, increasing the utilization of our higher-cost gas-fired generation facilities, purchasing power from other suppliers, adding additional leased trains to our supply system and purchasing locally mined coal which can be delivered without using the railroads. Such measures could result in increased fuel and purchased power expenditures. With the addition of the Missouri fuel adjustment mechanism effective September 1, 2008, we now have a fuel cost recovery mechanism in all of our jurisdictions, which significantly reduces our net income exposure to the impact of the lbs discussed above. However, cash flow could still be impacted by these increased expenditures. We are also subject to prudency reviews which could negatively impact our net income if a regulatory commission would conclude our costs were incurred imprudently. We have also established a lb management practice of purchasing contracts for future fuel needs to meet underlying customer needs and manage cost and pricing uncertainty. Within this activity, we may incur losses from these contracts. By using physical and financial instruments, we are exposed to credit lb and market lb. Market lb is the exposure to a change in the value of commodities caused by fluctuations in market variables, such as price. The fair value of derivative financial instruments we hold is adjusted cumulatively on a monthly basis until prescribed determination periods. At the end of each determination period, which is the last day of each calendar month in the period, any realized gain or loss for that period related to the contract will be reclassified to fuel expense and recovered or refunded to the customer through our fuel adjustment mechanisms. Credit lb is the lb that the counterparty might fail to fulfill its obligations under contractual terms. We are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state utility regulatory agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover our costs from utility customers. The utility commissions in the states where we operate regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including the rates that we can charge customers, siting and construction of facilities, pipeline safety and compliance, customer service and our ability to recover increases in our fuel and purchased power costs. The FERC has jurisdiction over wholesale rates for electric transmission service and electric energy sold in interstate commerce. Federal, state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities. Information concerning recent filings requesting increases in rates and related matters is set forth under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Rate Matters." We are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Despite our requests, these regulatory commissions have sole discretion to leave rates unchanged, grant increases or order decreases in the base rates we charge our utility customers. They have similar authority with respect to our recovery of increases in our fuel and purchased power costs. If our costs increase and we are unable to recover increased costs through base rates or fuel adjustment clauses, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Operations lbs may adversely affect our business and financial results. The operation of our electric generation, and electric and gas transmission and distribution systems involves many lbs, including breakdown or failure of expensive and sophisticated equipment, processes and personnel performance; operating limitations that may be imposed by equipment conditions, environmental or other regulatory requirements; fuel supply or fuel transportation reductions or interruptions; transmission scheduling constraints; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, severe weather or other similar occurrences. We have implemented training, preventive maintenance and other programs, but there is no assurance that these programs will prevent or minimize future breakdowns, outages or failures of our generation facilities. In those cases, we would need to either produce replacement power from our other facilities or purchase power from other suppliers at potentially volatile and higher cost in order to meet our sales obligations. These and other operating events may reduce our revenues, increase costs, or both, and may materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We are exposed to increases in costs and reductions in revenue which we cannot control and which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The primary drivers of our electric operating revenues in any period are: (1) rates we can charge our customers, (2) weather, (3) customer growth and (4) general economic conditions. Of the factors driving revenues, weather has the greatest short-term effect on the demand for electricity for our regulated business. Mild weather reduces demand and, as a result, our electric operating revenues. In addition, changes in customer demand due to downturns in the economy could reduce our revenues. The primary drivers of our electric operating expenses in any period are: (1) fuel and purchased power expenses, (2) maintenance and repairs expense, including repairs following severe weather and plant outages, (3) taxes and (4) non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization expense. Although we generally recover maintenance and repairs expense and such costs through our rates, there can be no assurance that we will recover all, or any part of, such increased costs in future rate cases. The primary drivers of our gas operating revenues in any period are: (1) rates we can charge our customers, (2) weather, (3) customer growth, (4) the cost of natural gas and interstate pipeline transportation charges and (5) general economic conditions. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our natural gas service territory and a significant amount of our natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating seasons. Accordingly, our natural gas operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter. The primary driver of our gas operating expense in any period is the price of natural gas. Significant increases in electric and gas operating expenses or reductions in electric and gas operating revenues may occur and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to recover increases in the cost of natural gas from our natural gas utility customers, or may lose customers as a result of any price increases. In our natural gas utility business, we are permitted to recover the cost of gas directly from our customers through the use of a purchased gas adjustment provision. Our PGA provision is regularly reviewed by the MPSC. In addition to reviewing our adjustments to customer rates, the MPSC reviews our costs for prudency as well. To the extent the MPSC may determine certain costs were not incurred 24 Table of Contents prudently, it could adversely affect our gas segment earnings and cash flows. In addition, increases in natural gas costs affect total prices to our customers and, therefore, the competitive position of gas relative to electricity and other forms of energy. Increases in natural gas costs may also result in lower usage by customers unable to switch to alternate fuels. Such disallowed costs or customer losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation with regard to air and other environmental matters. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, and new interpretations of existing environmental laws and regulations, have been adopted and may in the future be adopted which may substantially increase our future environmental expenditures for both new facilities and our existing facilities. Compliance with current and future air emission standards (such as those limiting emission levels of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) and, potentially, carbon dioxide (CO2)) has required, and may in the future require, significant environmental expenditures. Although we generally recover such costs through our rates, there can be no assurance that we will recover all, or any part of, such increased costs in future rate cases. The incurrence of additional material environmental costs which are not recovered in our rates may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost and schedule of construction projects may materially change. We have entered into contracts to purchase an undivided interest in 50 megawatts of the Plum Point Energy Station's new 665-megawatt, coal-fired generating facility which is being built near Osceola, Arkansas. We have also entered into an agreement with KCP&L to purchase an undivided ownership interest in the coal-fired Iatan 2 generating facility. We will own 12%, or approximately 100 megawatts, of the 850-megawatt unit. There are lbs that actual costs may exceed budget estimates, delays may occur in obtaining permits and materials, suppliers and contractors may not perform as required under their contracts, there may be inadequate availability or increased cost of qualified craft labor, the scope and timing of projects may change, and other events beyond our control may occur that may materially affect the schedule, budget and performance of these projects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents 