Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that pose material risks to our business, operating results and financial condition which are frequently beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, those listed below. These risk factors include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All forward-looking statements, including those detailed in our public filings with the SEC, news releases and other communications, speak only as of the dates of those filings or communications. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations. Our business could be adversely affected by reduced levels of cash, whether from operations or pursuant to the terms of our debt, as well as our ability to refinance our existing debt. Reduced levels of cash generated from operations as well as our ability to refinance our existing debt could adversely impact our current business and our ability to grow. Historically, our principal sources of cash have been cash flows from operations and borrowings from banks and other sources. Given the continued weak global economic conditions, operations may continue to generate less cash. Our current bank credit agreement expires in November 2009. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a new bank credit agreement with satisfactory terms and conditions on a timely basis. In addition, the holders of our $40,000,000 of 7% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes may, as of February 2010, require us to repurchase those Notes at 100% of the principal plus unpaid interest, and we expect that they will do so. Our existing cash balance and the cash we generate from operations will not be sufficient to pay the principal amount of these Notes. As further discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we believe that the credit markets are improving and we are working with an advisor to explore other financing alternatives. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance this debt on a timely basis and on satisfactory terms, if at all. The effects of the weak global economic conditions and the distressed financial markets may continue to adversely affect our sales, capital structure and liquidity. The current weak global economic conditions and the distressed financial markets have generally resulted in reduced demand for products, volatility in the capital markets, and constricted credit availability. Continuation of these economic conditions can further reduce our sales, and the uncertainty in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access necessary capital, whether by refinancing our existing debt, or obtaining agreements for new debt, or by issuing securities as well as increase the cost of such capital. Reduced access to capital and credit markets combined with reduced cash flow from operations would adversely affect our liquidity. The downturn in the global economy and the transportation safety and highway construction industries may continue to adversely affect our operating results. General economic downturns, including downturns in the transportation safety and highway construction industries, could result in a material decrease in our revenues and operating results. We believe that the current downturn of global economic conditions and the related reduction in government funding adversely impacted our performance in fiscal years 2008 and 2009. Sales of our products are sensitive to foreign, domestic and regional economies in general, and in particular, changes in government infrastructure spending which can be adversely impacted by reduced tax revenues. In addition, trends toward privatization of highways may impact the nature of spending on transportation safety products. Many of our costs are fixed and cannot be quickly reduced in response to decreased demand. 10 Table of Contents A decrease or delay in federal government funding of transportation safety and highway construction and maintenance may cause our revenues, profits and cash flow to decrease. We depend substantially on federal, state and local funding for transportation safety, highway construction and maintenance and other related infrastructure projects. Federal government funding for infrastructure projects is usually accomplished through highway authorization bills, which establish funding over a multi-year period. The most recent highway authorization legislation, SAFETEA-LU, expires September 30, 2009. We anticipate that delays in the passage of a new highway bill will occur, which may increase uncertainty in state and local governments and delays in commencing infrastructure projects. SAFETEA-LU was delayed nearly two years after the previous law had expired. Even after federal legislation is enacted, funding appropriations may be revised in future congressional sessions, and federal funding for infrastructure projects may be reduced in the future. Federal transportation spending is funded through a highway trust fund which derives most of its money from gasoline tax revenue. When the price of gasoline increased in 2008, the number of miles driven decreased significantly which depleted the surplus in the federal highway trust fund. In September, 2008, legislation was enacted to transfer $8 billion from the general fund to the highway trust fund in an attempt to keep the fund solvent through September 2009. However, reduced tax revenues and altered driving patterns further impacted the solvency of the highway trust fund, and in August 2009 legislation was enacted that included a transfer of $7 billion to the highway trust fund so that critical infrastructure projects will remain funded through September 30, 2009. We expect that before September 30, 2009, Congress and the Obama administration will agree to extend the highway authorizations for a limited time (perhaps 12 to 18 months) at current levels, and will transfer funds to the highway trust fund to provide ample time for the adoption of a new multi-year highway authorization law. Failure to replenish the highway trust fund expeditiously may have an adverse impact on our sales and financial performance in fiscal 2010. Congress enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February 2009 which includes approximately $27 billion in stimulus funding for highway and bridge improvements, aimed at increasing jobs through infrastructure projects. There is no assurance that this stimulus spending program will positively affect the demand for our products in fiscal 2010, or thereafter. Constraints on state and local government budgets and decreases in state highway funding adversely affect our financial performance. States and municipalities may continue to reduce spending on highways due to reduced tax revenues and other budget constraints and priorities. Loss of tax revenues and such budgetary constraints adversely affect the ability of states to fund transportation, highway and infrastructure projects, and therefore reduce the demand for our products. Municipalities also suffer from budget constraints that can reduce transportation safety spending. Like the federal highway trust fund which depends on gasoline tax revenue, state highway funds also are dependent on revenue from state gasoline taxes. A number of states also contribute a portion of their sales tax on new car purchases into their state highway funds. A decrease in miles driven or new car sales may adversely affect the ability of states to fund transportation projects, and correspondingly, reduce the demand for our products. The majority of states have been experiencing budgetary constraints and deficits which are expected to continue into our fiscal 2010. We depend on principal customers. Although we depend on principal customers, no single customer of Quixote represents a significant portion of total revenues. In fiscal 2009, approximately 7%, 6% and 6% of our consolidated revenues resulted from sales to customers in the States of New York, Texas and Illinois, respectively. Customers may include distributors, contractors, departments of transportation, state agencies, local governments 11 Table of Contents or municipalities. Any reduction in state transportation safety spending could materially affect our sales in those states, whether caused by reduced tax revenues or other budget constraints or priorities. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from our customers in these states could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many state governments, including New York, Texas and Illinois, have announced budget short-falls, which could further adversely affect sales of our products. Our customers and suppliers may be adversely affected by the current global economic conditions, reduced government spending on transportation and highway projects, and the distressed credit markets. In turn, delays in placing orders and payment for products and higher default rates by our customers, as well as increased costs and imposition of more stringent terms and conditions by our suppliers could adversely affect our financial performance. We are in a competitive marketplace. To the extent one or more of our current or future competitors introduce products that better address customer requirements, or are less expensive than our products, our business could be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain our leadership position in certain product lines. Competition may adversely affect the selling prices and the profit margins on our products. We may not be successful in developing and marketing our existing products or new products or incorporating new technology on a timely basis or at a reduced cost. If we are unable to timely develop and introduce new products, or enhance existing products, or reduce costs in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements or demands, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have acquired complementary businesses in the past and, as a part of our strategy, may continue to acquire complementary businesses. The gross profit margins of certain acquired product lines are lower than our historical gross profit margin, which adversely affects our gross profit margin. Given competitive conditions, we may be unable to improve our gross profit margins for these products. We have been affected by increased prices for certain commodities, particularly steel, aluminum and resin, which are a significant component of the cost of certain of our products. Such price increases negatively impact our gross margin for certain products, if we are unable to pass along to our customers cost increases. Increasing fuel and freight costs may also adversely affect our performance. Our products often are subject to government testing, inspection and approval. We frequently supply products and services pursuant to agreements with general contractors or government agencies. The successful completion of our obligations under these contracts is often subject to satisfactory testing, inspection and approval of such products and services. Although we endeavor to satisfy the requirements of each of these contracts to which we are a party, no assurance can be given that the necessary approval of our products and services will be granted on a timely basis or at all, and that we will receive any payments due to us. In some cases, we may be dependent on others to complete these projects which may also delay payments to us. Any failure to obtain these approvals and payments may have a material adverse effect on our business and future financial performance. Global economic conditions, as well as difficulties in managing and expanding in international markets, could affect future growth in these markets. In fiscal year 2009, international sales were $25,938,000 or 28%, of our total sales and we believe international markets are an important source of our growth. We plan to continue to increase our presence in these markets. However, the current deterioration of the global economy has had an 12 Table of Contents adverse impact on our international sales, and we anticipate, will continue to adversely affect our international sales, as foreign governments reduce spending for transportation and infrastructure projects. In connection with an increase in international sales efforts, we need to hire, train and retain qualified personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory barriers may exist. Moreover, funding and government requirements vary by country with respect to transportation safety. In a number of countries there are no governmental requirements or funding for transportation safety and we must educate officials and demonstrate the need for and the benefits of our products. In addition, our international revenues are subject to the following risks: •fluctuating currency exchange rates could reduce the demand for or profitability of foreign sales by affecting the pricing of our products; •the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including the requirements for additional testing of our products; •dependence on foreign sales agents; •difficulty collecting foreign receivables, •political and economic instability of foreign governments; and •imposition of protective legislation such as import or export barriers. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology from infringement or if our technology infringes technology owned by others, then the demand for our products may decrease or we may be forced to modify our products which could increase our costs. We hold numerous patents covering technology and applications related to many of our products and systems, and numerous trademarks and trade names registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in foreign countries. Our existing and future patents and trademarks may not adequately protect us against infringements, especially in certain foreign countries, and pending patent or trademark applications may not result in issued patents or trademarks. Our patents, registered trademarks and patent applications may not be upheld if challenged, and competitors may develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of our patents. This could increase competition for our products and materially decrease our revenues. If our products are deemed to infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify the design of our products, change the name of our products or obtain a license for the use of some of the technologies used in our products. We may be unable to do any of the foregoing in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could cause us to incur additional costs or lose expected revenue. Past and future acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our future financial results. Historically we have grown by acquisitions and we may acquire additional businesses in the future. We may be unable to achieve the benefits expected to be realized from our acquisitions. We may incur additional costs and our management's attention may be diverted because of unforeseen expenses, complications, delays and other risks inherent in acquiring businesses, including the following: •we may have difficulty integrating the acquired businesses as planned, which may include integration of systems of internal controls over financial reporting and other financial and administrative functions; •acquisitions may divert management's attention from our existing operations; 13 Table of Contents •we may have difficulty in competing successfully for available acquisition candidates, completing future acquisitions or accurately estimating the financial effect of any businesses we acquire; •we may have delays in realizing the benefits of our strategies for an acquired business; •we may not be able to retain key employees necessary to continue the operations of an acquired business; •acquisition costs may be met with cash or debt, increasing the risk that we will be unable to satisfy current financial obligations; •we may acquire businesses that are less profitable or have lower profit margins than our historical profit margins; and •companies we acquire may have unknown liabilities that could require us to spend significant amounts of additional capital. Management's estimates and assumptions affect reported amounts of expenses and changes in those estimates could impact operating results. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually, and the results of such testing may adversely affect our financial results. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $9,246,000 in the Inform segment in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. We use a variety of valuation techniques in determining fair value. The impairment review is highly judgmental and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions have a significant impact on the amount of any impairment charge recorded. Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flow methods and are dependent upon assumptions of future sales trends, market conditions and cash flows of each reporting unit over several years. Actual results may differ significantly from the estimates and assumptions used. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events which are included in the financial statements or tax returns. In assessing the realizability of the deferred tax assets, management makes certain assumptions about whether the deferred tax assets will be realized. Realization of deferred tax assets assumes that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income so that the assets will be realized. The factors that we consider in assessing the likelihood of realization include the forecast of future taxable income, available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax assets as well as certain federal and state laws that impose restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we performed an Internal Revenue Code Section 382 analysis with respect to our net operating loss and credit carryforwards and determined that there was currently no such limitation. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Although we assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there is no assurance that such determinations by us are in fact adequate. Changes in our effective tax rates or amounts assessed upon examination of our tax returns may have a material adverse impact on our results and our financial condition. We currently expect the net deferred tax assets of $21,255,000 recorded as of June 30, 2009 to be fully realizable in part based upon expected future projected income and the significant length of time to utilize net operating losses. However, changes in expectations related to the extent and duration of the economic downturn and its impact on our operating results as well as a subsequent change in ownership which may limit the utilization of net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards could cause us to further review the realizability of our deferred tax assets. It is possible that the review would result in an increased valuation allowance, increasing income tax expense, which would adversely affect our net income. 14 Table of Contents Our success depends on our management and other employees. To execute our business plans, we need to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified people is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and work environment. Our ability to attract and retain executives, qualified engineers, skilled manufacturing and marketing personnel and other professionals, either through direct hiring or acquisition of other businesses employing such professionals, is an important factor in determining our future success. Our facilities or facilities of our customers and suppliers could be susceptible to natural disasters. One of our major manufacturing facilities is located in the Southeastern U.S. Should a natural disaster such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flood severely damage one of our major manufacturing facilities, or damage a major facility of one or more of our significant customers or suppliers, our business could be materially disrupted. Our insurance coverage could be inadequate. In accordance with risk management practices, we continually re-evaluate risks, their potential costs and the cost of minimizing them. To reduce our exposure to material risks, we purchase insurance in certain circumstances. We believe that we maintain adequate insurance coverage to effectively mitigate risk when possible. However, certain risks are inherent in our business and our insurance may not be adequate to cover potential claims or may be unavailable. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which may affect our stock price. Our quarterly revenues, expenses, operating results and gross profit margins vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some quarters, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The reasons our quarterly results may fluctuate include: •seasonality inherent in the transportation safety and highway construction and maintenance industry; •variations in profit margins attributable to product mix; •changes in the general competitive and economic conditions; •delays in, or uneven timing in the delivery of, customer orders; •the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; and •delays in federal highway funding and budgetary restraints on state and local government spending. Period to period comparisons of our results should not be relied on as indications of future performance. We may experience volatility in our stock price. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors, including: •the relatively small public float of our stock; •quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, as described in the prior risk factor; 15 Table of Contents •continued suspension of our semi-annual dividend; •changes in securities analysts' estimates of our future earnings; and •loss of significant customers or significant business developments relating to us or our competitors. Our failure to meet analysts' expectations, even if minor, could cause the market price of our common stock to continue to decline. In addition, stock markets have generally experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our common stock's market price. In the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies' securities. If any such litigation is instigated against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acts of war or terrorism could adversely impact our business and operating results. Acts of war or terrorism (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors or customers, which could significantly impact our sales, costs, expenses and financial condition. The potential for acts of war or hostility or terrorism may create many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. We are uninsured for losses and interruption caused by acts of war. * * * The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and evaluated all factors affecting our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For these reasons, the reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 