Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that pose material risks to our business, operating results and financial condition which are frequently beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: 8 A decrease or delay in federal government funding of transportation safety and highway construction and maintenance may cause our revenues and profits to decrease. We depend substantially on federal, state and municipal funding for transportation safety, highway construction and maintenance and other related infrastructure projects. Any decrease or delay in government funding could cause our revenues and profits to decrease. Federal government funding for infrastructure projects is usually accomplished through highway authorization bills, which establish funding over a multi-year period. The most recent highway authorization bill, SAFETEA-LU, became law in August 2005, after the prior law, which authorized federal spending through September 30, 2003, was extended at then current funding levels eleven times. Until the new law was passed, the transportation safety allotment in federal and state budgets was uncertain, and we believe this uncertainty negatively impacted spending on our products and services. The delayed passage of the new highway funding bill adversely affected our financial performance in fiscal year 2005 and fiscal year 2006. SAFETEA-LU currently expires September 30, 2009. Delays in a new highway bill could occur and could relate to political uncertainties. Even after federal legislation is enacted, funding appropriations may be revised in future congressional sessions, and federal funding for infrastructure projects may be reduced in the future. In addition, Congress could pass legislation in future sessions which would divert highway funds for other national purposes or would restrict funding for infrastructure projects unless states comply with certain federal policies. Constraints on state and local government budgets may adversely affect our financial performance. States and municipalities may reduce spending on highways due to budget constraints as well as other budget priorities. Such budgetary constraints adversely affect the ability of states to fund transportation, highway and infrastructure projects, and therefore reduce the demand for our products. Municipalities also suffer from budget constraints that can reduce transportation safety spending. Downturns in domestic or foreign economies or the transportation safety and highway construction industries may adversely affect our results. General economic downturns, including downturns in the transportation safety and highway construction industries, could result in a material decrease in our revenues and operating results. We believe that the economic downturn and the related domestic funding uncertainty during fiscal years 2002 into 2006 negatively affected our expected revenue growth. Sales of our products are sensitive to foreign, domestic and regional economies in general, and in particular, changes in government infrastructure spending. In addition, trends toward privatization of highways may impact the nature of spending on transportation safety products. Many of our costs are fixed and cannot be quickly reduced in response to decreased demand. Our products often are subject to government testing, inspection and approval. We frequently supply products and services pursuant to agreements with general contractors or directly with government agencies. The successful completion of our obligations under these contracts is often subject to satisfactory testing, inspection and approval of such products and services. Although we endeavor to satisfy the requirements of each of these contracts to which we are a party, no assurance can be given that the necessary approval of our products and services will be granted on a timely basis or at all, and that we will receive any payments due to us. In some cases, we may be dependent on others to complete these projects which may also delay payments to us. Any failure to obtain these approvals and payments may have a material adverse effect on our business and future financial performance. 9 Past and future acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our future financial results. We grow our Company by acquisitions and may acquire additional businesses in the future. We may be unable to achieve the benefits expected to be realized from our acquisitions. We may incur additional costs and our management’s attention may be diverted because of unforeseen expenses, complications, delays and other risks inherent in acquiring businesses, including the following: · we may have difficulty integrating the acquired businesses as planned, which may include integration of systems of internal controls over financial reporting and other financial and administrative functions; · acquisitions may divert management’s attention from our existing operations; · we may have difficulty in competing successfully for available acquisition candidates, completing future acquisitions or accurately estimating the financial effect of any businesses we acquire; · we may have delays in realizing the benefits of our strategies for an acquired business; · we may not be able to retain key employees necessary to continue the operations of an acquired business; · acquisition costs may be met with cash or debt, increasing the risk that we will be unable to satisfy current financial obligations; · we may acquire businesses that are less profitable or have lower profit margins than our historical profit margins; and · acquired companies may have unknown liabilities that could require us to spend significant amounts of additional capital. In May and December, 2003, we made two acquisitions in the Intersection Control segment. Integration of these businesses, combined with reduced demand for our products, adversely affected our financial performance in fiscal 2005 and 2006. Given substandard performance of our Intersection Control segment, we recorded asset impairment charges in that segment of $13,374,000 for the year ended June 30, 2006. Confronted with the underperformance of the Intersection Control business, in April 2006, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan for that business which included further rationalizing of operations and divesting certain non-core product lines. We completed the restructuring plan in the second quarter of fiscal 2007. However, the restructuring activities may not result in profitability for the Intersection Control segment. Management’s estimates and assumptions affect reported amounts of expenses and changes in those estimates could impact operating results. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually, and the results of such testing may adversely affect our financial results. We use a variety of valuation techniques in determining fair value. The impairment review is highly judgmental and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions have a significant impact on the amount of any impairment charge recorded, and actual results may differ significantly from the estimates and assumptions used. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events which are included in the financial statements or tax returns. In assessing the realizability of the deferred tax assets, management makes certain assumptions about whether the deferred tax assets will be realized. We expect the deferred tax assets currently recorded to be fully realizable, however there can be no assurance that an increased valuation allowance would not need to be recorded in the future. 10 Our business could be adversely affected by reduced levels of cash, whether from operations or from bank borrowings. Historically, our principal sources of funds have been cash flows from operations and borrowings from banks. Our operating and financial performance may generate less cash and result in our failing to comply with our bank credit agreement covenants. We are currently in compliance with the covenants of the credit agreement and expect to be during fiscal 2008. However, our ability to remain in compliance in the future will depend on our future financial performance and may be affected by events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to remain in compliance with the credit agreement, or that we will be able to obtain future amendments to the credit agreement to avoid a default. In the event of a default, there can be no assurance that we could negotiate a new credit agreement or that we could obtain a new credit agreement with satisfactory terms and conditions within a reasonable time period. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology from infringement or if our technology infringes technology owned by others, then the demand for our products may decrease or we may be forced to modify our products which could increase our costs. We hold numerous patents covering technology and applications related to many of our products and systems, and numerous trademarks and trade names registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in foreign countries. Our existing and future patents and trademarks may not adequately protect us against infringements, especially in certain foreign countries, and pending patent or trademark applications may not result in issued patents or trademarks. Our patents, registered trademarks and patent applications may not be upheld if challenged, and competitors may develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of our patents. This could increase competition for our products and materially decrease our revenues. If our products are deemed to infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify the design of our products, change the name of our products or obtain a license for the use of some of the technologies used in our products. We may be unable to do any of the foregoing in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could cause us to incur additional costs or lose expected revenue. Our success depends on our management and other employees. A factor in our ability to profitably execute our work is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified people is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and work environment. Leslie J. Jezuit, our Chairman and President, and Daniel P. Gorey, our Chief Financial Officer, are of significant importance to our business and operations. The loss of their services may adversely affect our business. In addition, our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers, skilled manufacturing and marketing personnel and other professionals, either through direct hiring or acquisition of other businesses employing such professionals, is an important factor in determining our future success. Difficulties in managing and expanding in international markets could affect future growth in these markets. In fiscal year 2007, international sales were $23,399,000 or 17%, of our total sales and we believe international markets are an important source of growth. We plan to continue to increase our presence in these markets. In connection with an increase in international sales efforts, we need to hire, train and retain qualified personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory barriers may exist. Moreover, funding and government requirements vary by country with respect to transportation safety. In a number of countries there are no governmental requirements or funding for transportation safety and we must 11 educate officials and demonstrate the need for and the benefits of our products. In addition, international revenues are subject to the following risks: · fluctuating currency exchange rates could reduce the demand for or profitability of foreign sales by affecting the pricing of our products; · the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including the requirements for additional testing of our products; · dependence on foreign sales agents; · political and economic instability of foreign governments; and · the imposition of protective legislation such as import or export barriers. There are risks associated with doing business in China. Some of our future business projects will be located in China, where we opened a new facility in Beijing during fiscal 2007. As a consequence, the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of the risks related to doing business in China include: · The legal environment in China is uncertain and our ability to legally protect our investment could be limited; · The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities; · Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China; · Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our cash effectively; and · More restrictive rules on foreign investment could adversely affect our ability to expand our operation in China or repatriate any profits earned there. We depend on principal customers. Although we depend on principal customers, no single customer of Quixote represents a significant portion of total revenues. In fiscal 2007, approximately 9%, 8% and 7% of our consolidated revenues resulted from sales to customers in the States of California, Florida and Texas, respectively. Customers may include distributors, contractors, departments of transportation, state agencies, local governments or municipalities. A change in spending policy could materially affect our sales in those states. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from these or our other major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are in a competitive marketplace. To the extent one or more of our current or future competitors introduce products that better address customer requirements, or are less expensive than our products, our business could be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain our leadership position in certain products. Competition may adversely affect the selling prices and the profit margins on our products. We may not be successful in developing and marketing our existing products or new products or incorporating new technology on a timely basis or at a reduced cost. If we are unable to timely develop and introduce new products, or enhance existing products, or reduce costs in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements or demands, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 12 We have acquired complementary businesses over the past several years and, as a part of our strategy, may continue to acquire complementary businesses. The gross profit margins of certain acquired product lines are lower than our historical gross profit margin, which adversely affects our gross profit margin. Given competitive conditions, we may be unable to improve our gross profit margins for these businesses and products. We have been affected by increased prices for certain commodities, particularly aluminum, steel and resin, which are a significant component of the cost of certain of our products. Such price increases negatively impact our gross margin for certain products, if we are unable to pass along to our customers cost increases. Increasing fuel and freight costs adversely affected our performance in fiscal 2006 and 2007. We expect these trends will continue in fiscal 2008. Our facilities or facilities of our customers and suppliers could be susceptible to natural disasters. Two of our major facilities are located in the Southeastern U.S. Should a natural disaster such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or flood severely damage one of our major manufacturing facilities, or damage a major facility of one or more of our significant customers or suppliers, our business could be materially disrupted. Our insurance coverage could be inadequate. In accordance with risk management practices, we continually re-evaluate risks, their potential costs and the cost of minimizing them. To reduce our exposure to material risks, we purchase insurance in certain circumstances. We believe that we maintain adequate insurance coverage to effectively mitigate risk when possible. However, certain risks are inherent in our business and our insurance may not be adequate to cover potential claims or may be unavailable. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which may affect our stock price. Our quarterly revenues, expenses, operating results and gross profit margins vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some quarters, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The reasons our quarterly results may fluctuate include: · seasonality inherent in the transportation safety and highway construction and maintenance industry; · variations in profit margins attributable to product mix; · changes in the general competitive and economic conditions; · delays in, or uneven timing in the delivery of, customer orders; · the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; and · delays in federal highway funding and budgetary restraints on state and local government spending. Period to period comparisons of our results should not be relied on as indications of future performance. We may experience volatility in our stock price. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors, including: · the relatively small public float of our stock; 13 · quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, as described in the prior risk factor; · changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our future earnings; and · loss of significant customers or significant business developments relating to us or our competitors. Our failure to meet analysts’ expectations, even if minor, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, stock markets have generally experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. In the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies’ securities. If any such litigation is instigated against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acts of war could adversely impact our business and operating results. Acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors or customers, which could significantly impact our sales, costs, expenses and financial condition. The potential for acts of war or hostility may create many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. We are uninsured for losses and interruption caused by acts of war. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and evaluated all factors affecting our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 