ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face in our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In such an event, our common stock could decline in price and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, and competitors’ pricing strategies, which can adversely affect our sales, margins, and net income. Our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local market conditions, and competitors’ pricing strategies, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges. Certain macroeconomic events, such as the recent crisis in the financial markets, could have a more wide-ranging and prolonged impact on the general business environment, which could also adversely affect us. Whether we can manage these risks effectively depends mainly on the following: • Our ability to manage upward pressure on commodity prices and the impact of government actions to manage national economic conditions such as consumer spending, inflation rates and unemployment levels, particularly given the current volatility in the global financial markets; • The impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and the potential impact of union organizing efforts on day-to-day operations of our manufacturing facilities. 6 Table of Contents Declining economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. Markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption due in part to the financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system and the financial markets generally. The consequences of a potential or prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets, all of what we have seen of late. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in demand for our products, which may adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. The terms and conditions of our credit facility impose certain restrictions on our operations. We may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, for proposed expansion projects. The terms and conditions of our credit facility impose certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, make capital expenditures, acquisitions, asset dispositions, as well as other customary covenants, such as minimum equity level and total funded debt to EBITDA, as defined. Our ability to comply with the covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, such as distressed and volatile financial markets which could trigger an impairment charge to our recorded intangible assets. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facility. In the event of a default, the bank could elect to declare the outstanding principal amount of our credit facility, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under our credit facility to be immediately due and payable. As of February 29, 2012, we were in compliance with all terms and conditions of our credit facility, which matures on August 18, 2016. Declining financial market conditions could adversely impact the funding status of our pension plan. We maintain a defined-benefit pension plan covering approximately 10% of our employees. Included in our financial results are pension costs that are measured using actuarial valuations. The actuarial assumptions used may differ from actual results. In addition, as our pension assets are invested in marketable securities, severe fluctuations in market values could potentially negatively impact our funding status, recorded pension liability, and future required minimum contribution levels. We may be required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets which could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be negatively affected in the future. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable tangible assets acquired. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. A decline in market conditions may indicate a potential impairment of goodwill. An impairment test was completed for our fiscal year February 29, 2012, and we concluded that no impairment charge was necessary. At February 29, 2012, our goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $121.6 million and $87.4 million, respectively. Digital technologies will continue to erode the demand for our printed business documents. The increasing sophistication of software, internet technologies, and digital equipment combined with our customers’ general preference, as well as governmental influences, for paperless business environments will continue to reduce the number of printed documents sold. Moreover, the documents that will continue to coexist with software applications will likely contain less value-added print content. Many of our custom-printed documents help companies control their internal business processes and facilitate the flow of information. These applications will increasingly be conducted over the internet or through other electronic payment systems. The predominant method of our clients’ communication to their customers is by printed information. As their customers become more accepting of internet communications, our clients may increasingly opt for the less costly electronic option, which would reduce our revenue. The pace of these trends is difficult to predict. These factors will tend to reduce the industry-wide demand for printed documents and require us to gain market share to maintain or increase our current level of print-based revenue. In response to the gradual obsolescence of our standardized forms business, we continue to develop our capability to provide custom and full-color products. If new printing capabilities and new product introductions do not continue to offset the obsolescence of our standardized business forms products, and we aren’t able to increase our market share, our sales and profits will be affected. Decreases in sales of our standardized business forms and 7 Table of Contents products due to obsolescence could also reduce our gross margins. This reduction could in turn adversely impact our profits, unless we are able to offset the reduction through the introduction of new high margin products and services or realize cost savings in other areas. Our distributors face increased competition from various sources, such as office supply superstores. Increased competition may require us to reduce prices or to offer other incentives in order to enable our distributors to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Low price, high value office supply chain stores offer standardized business forms, checks and related products. Because of their size, these superstores have the buying power to offer many of these products at competitive prices. These superstores also offer the convenience of “one-stop” shopping for a broad array of office supplies that our distributors do not offer. In addition, superstores have the financial strength to reduce prices or increase promotional discounts to expand market share. This could result in us reducing our prices or offering incentives in order to enable our distributors to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Technological improvements may reduce our competitive advantage over some of our competitors, which could reduce our profits. Improvements in the cost and quality of printing technology are enabling some of our competitors to gain access to products of complex design and functionality at competitive costs. Increased competition from these competitors could force us to reduce our prices in order to attract and retain customers, which could reduce our profits. We could experience labor disputes that could disrupt our business in the future. As of February 29, 2012, approximately 12% of our domestic employees are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiations. Three unions represent all of our hourly employees in Mexico. While we feel we have a good working relationship with all the unions, there can be no assurance that any future labor negotiations will prove successful, which may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor, or may break down and result in the disruption of our business or operations. We obtain our raw materials from a limited number of suppliers, and any disruption in our relationships with these suppliers, or any substantial increase in the price of raw materials or material shortages could have a material adverse effect on us. Cotton yarn is the primary raw material used in Alstyle’s manufacturing processes. Cotton accounts for approximately 47.3% of the manufactured product cost at current pricing levels. Alstyle acquires its yarn from three major sources that meet stringent quality and on-time delivery requirements. The largest supplier provided 60% of Alstyle’s yarn requirements during the year and has an entire yarn mill dedicated to Alstyle’s production. To maintain our high standard of color control associated with our apparel products, we purchase our dyeing chemicals from limited sources. If Alstyle’s relations with its suppliers are disrupted, Alstyle may not be able to enter into arrangements with substitute suppliers on terms as favorable as its current terms, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We also purchase our paper products from a limited number of sources, which meet stringent quality and on-time delivery standards under long-term contracts. However, fluctuations in the quality of our paper, unexpected price increases or other factors that relate to our paper products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Both cotton and paper are commodities that are subject to periodic increases or decreases in price, sometimes quite significant. There is no effective market to cost-effectively insulate us against unexpected changes in price of paper, and corporate negotiated purchase contracts provide only limited protection against price increases. We generally acquire our cotton yarn under short-term purchase contracts with our suppliers. While we generally do not use derivative instruments, including cotton option contracts, to manage our exposure to movements in cotton market prices, we believe we are competitive with other companies in the United States apparel industry in negotiating the price of cotton. During fiscal year 2010, spot cotton prices increased significantly, however, manufacturers were able to insulate themselves from some of these increases with forward purchase contracts. However, because spot cotton prices remained at these levels for a sustained period of time, these favorable forward contracts expired and were replaced with higher-priced contracts which are now significantly higher than current spot cotton prices. These higher-priced contracts are what have been and will continue to be flowing into large manufacturer’s cost of goods sold over the next several quarters. Generally, when cotton or paper prices are increased, we attempt to recover the higher costs by raising the prices of our products to our customers. In the price-competitive 8 Table of Contents marketplaces in which we operate, we may not always be able to pass through any or all of the higher costs. As such, any significant increase in the price of paper or cotton or shortages in the availability of either, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face intense competition to gain market share, which may lead some competitors to sell substantial amounts of goods at prices against which we cannot profitably compete. Demand for Alstyle’s products is dependent on the general demand for shirts and the availability of alternative sources of supply. Alstyle’s strategy in this market environment is to be a low cost producer and to differentiate itself by providing quality service and quality products to its customers. Even if this strategy is successful, its results may be offset by reductions in demand or price declines due to competitors’ pricing strategies. Our Print Segment also faces the risk of our competition following a strategy of selling their products at or below cost in order to cover some amount of fixed costs, especially in distressed economic times. The apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. The apparel industry is cyclical and dependent upon the overall level of discretionary consumer spending, which changes as regional, domestic and international economic conditions change. These include, but are not limited to, employment levels, energy costs, interest rates, tax rates, personal debt levels, and uncertainty about the future. Any deterioration in general economic conditions that creates uncertainty or alters discretionary consumer spending habits could reduce our sales, increase our costs of goods sold or require us to significantly modify our current business practices, and consequently negatively impact our results of operations. Our foreign-based apparel operations could be subject to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other market barriers, political and economic instability, and social unrest in the countries where it operates, which could negatively impact our operating results. Alstyle operates manufacturing facilities in Mexico and sources certain product manufacturing and purchases from El Salvador, Thailand, India, Pakistan, China and other foreign sources. Alstyle’s foreign operations could be subject to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other market barriers, political and economic instability, and social unrest in the countries where it operates. The impact of any such events that may occur in the future could subject Alstyle to additional costs or loss of sales, which could adversely affect our operating results. In particular, Alstyle operates its facilities in Mexico pursuant to the “maquiladora” duty-free program established by the Mexican and United States governments. This program enables Alstyle to take advantage of generally lower costs in Mexico, without paying duty on inventory shipped into or out of Mexico. There can be no assurance that the governments of Mexico and the United States will continue the program currently in place or that Alstyle will continue to be able to benefit from this program. The loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, all Alstyle’s knit and dye operations are now located in one facility in Agua Prieta, Mexico. Any disruptions in operations through any of the above factors, as well as others, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operational results. Our apparel products are subject to foreign competition, which in the past have been faced with significant U.S. government import restrictions. Foreign producers of apparel often have significant labor cost advantages. Given the number of these foreign producers, the substantial elimination of import protections that protect domestic apparel producers could materially adversely affect Alstyle’s business. The extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to considerable political considerations. The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) became effective on January 1, 1994 and has created a free-trade zone among Canada, Mexico, and the United States. NAFTA contains a rule of origin requirement that products be produced in one of the three countries in order to benefit from the agreement. NAFTA has phased out all trade restrictions and tariffs among the three countries on apparel products competitive with those of Alstyle. Alstyle manufactures all of its products in the Agua Prieta manufacturing plant and performs substantially all of its cutting and sewing in five plants located in Mexico in order to take advantage of the NAFTA benefits. Subsequent repeal or alteration of NAFTA could adversely affect our business. The Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) became effective May 28, 2004 and retroactive to January 1, 2004 for textiles and apparel. It creates a free trade zone similar to NAFTA by and between the United 9 Table of Contents States and Central American countries (El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Dominican Republic.) Textiles and apparel are duty-free and quota-free immediately if they meet the agreement’s rule of origin, promoting new opportunities for U.S. and Central American fiber, yarn, fabric and apparel manufacturing. The agreement gives duty-free benefits to some apparel made in Central America that contains certain fabrics from NAFTA partners Mexico and Canada. Alstyle did not outsource any of its production to outside contract manufacturers in the last two quarters of this fiscal year, and we do not anticipate that alteration or subsequent repeal of CAFTA would have a material effect on our operations, other than improvement over our competitive capabilities. The World Trade Organization (WTO), a multilateral trade organization, was formed in January 1995 and is the successor to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). This multilateral trade organization has set forth mechanisms by which world trade in clothing is being progressively liberalized by phasing-out quotas and reducing duties over a period of time that began in January of 1995. As it implements the WTO mechanisms, the United States government is negotiating bilateral trade agreements with developing countries, which are generally exporters of textile and apparel products, that are members of the WTO to get them to reduce their tariffs on imports of textiles and apparel in exchange for reductions by the United States in tariffs on imports of textiles and apparel. In January 2005, United States import quotas were removed on knitted shirts from China. The elimination of quotas and the reduction of tariffs under the WTO may result in increased imports of certain apparel products into North America. In May 2005, quotas on three categories of clothing imports, including knitted shirts, from China were re-imposed. A reduction of import quotas and tariffs could make Alstyle’s products less competitive against low cost imports from developing countries. Environmental regulations may impact our future operating results. We are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and foreign laws and regulations establishing health and environmental quality standards, and may be subject to liability or penalties for violations of those standards. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing remediation of contamination at facilities currently or formerly owned or operated by us or to which we have sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, recycling or disposal. We may be subject to future liabilities or obligations as a result of new or more stringent interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In addition, we may have liabilities or obligations in the future if we discover any environmental contamination or liability at any of our facilities, or at facilities we may acquire. Our new apparel manufacturing facility in Mexico is subject to certain risks regarding sales growth and cost savings, as well as transition risks associated with moving the current production. Our new manufacturing facility was built to capture anticipated future growth and savings in production costs over our cost structure in Anaheim, CA. Should such growth or production savings not materialize, such events may impact our ability to achieve our expected return and/or could negatively impact our operational results and financial condition. We are exposed to the risk of non-payment by our customers on a significant amount of our sales. Our extension of credit involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition and payment history. We monitor our credit risk exposure by periodically obtaining credit reports and updated financials on our customers. We saw a heightened amount of bankruptcies by our customers, especially retailers, during the recent economic downturn. While we maintain an allowance for doubtful receivables for potential credit losses based upon our historical trends and other available information, in times of economic turmoil, there is heightened risk that our historical indicators may prove to be inaccurate. The inability to collect on sales to significant customers or a group of customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business incurs significant freight and transportation costs. We incur significant freight costs to transport our goods, especially as it relates to our Apparel Segment where we transport yarn from our domestic suppliers to our textile facility in Mexico. The internal freight from the textile to the sewing facilities, as well as the logistic cost of keeping our product in the distribution centers to maintain our product close to the customer and on time to market is also significant. In addition, we incur transportation expenses to ship our products to our customers. Significant increases in the costs of freight and transportation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, as there can be no assurance that we could pass these increased costs to our customers. 10 Table of Contents The price of energy is prone to significant fluctuations and volatility. Our apparel manufacturing operations require high inputs of energy, and therefore changes in energy prices directly impact our gross profit margins. We are focusing on manufacturing methods that will reduce the amount of energy used in the production of our apparel products to mitigate the rising costs of energy. Significant increases in energy prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, as there can be no assurance that we could pass these increased costs to our customers, given the competitive environment in which our Apparel segment operates. We depend upon the talents and contributions of a limited number of individuals, many of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss or interruption of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, Vice President of Apparel or Chief Financial Officer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we maintain employment agreements with these individuals, it cannot be assured that the services of such individuals will continue. Increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the Company’s financial results and cash flow. The Company’s expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. Unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could impact the Company’s financial results and cash flow. Healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system. The Company is not able at this time to determine the impact that healthcare reform could have on the Company-sponsored medical plans. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 