ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face in our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In such an event, our common stock could decline in price and you may lose all or part of your investment. We may be required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets in the future, which could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be negatively affected in the future. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. At February 29, 2008, our goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $178.4 million and $88.2 million, respectively. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to write down the value of these assets. Annually, we have conducted a review of our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets to determine whether there has been impairment. We cannot provide assurance that we will not be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on our shareholders’ equity and financial results and may cause a decline in our stock price. Printed business forms may be superseded over time by “paperless” business forms or otherwise affected by technological obsolescence and changing customer preferences, which could reduce our sales and profits. Printed business forms and checks may eventually be superseded by “paperless” business forms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business over time. The price and performance capabilities of personal computers and related printers now provide a cost-competitive means to print low-quality versions of many of our business forms on plain paper. In addition, electronic transaction systems and off-the-shelf business software applications have been designed to automate several of the functions performed by our business form and check products. In response to the gradual obsolescence of our standardized forms business, we continue to develop our capability to provide custom and full-color products. If new printing capabilities and new product introductions do not continue to offset the obsolescence of our standardized business forms products, there is a risk that the number of new customers we attract and existing customers we retain may diminish, which could reduce our sales and profits. Decreases in sales of our standardized business forms and products due to obsolescence could also reduce our gross margins. This reduction could in turn adversely impact our profits, unless we are able to offset the reduction through the introduction of new high margin products and services or realize cost savings in other areas. 7 Table of Contents Our distributors face increased competition from various sources, such as office supply superstores. Increased competition may require us to reduce prices or to offer other incentives in order to enable our distributors to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Low price, high value office supply chain stores offer standardized business forms, checks, and related products. Because of their size, these superstores have the buying power to offer many of these products at competitive prices. These superstores also offer the convenience of “one-stop” shopping for a broad array of office supplies that our distributors do not offer. In addition, superstores have the financial strength to reduce prices or increase promotional discounts to expand market share. This could result in us reducing our prices or offering incentives in order to enable our distributors to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Technological improvements may reduce our competitive advantage over some of our competitors, which could reduce our profits. Improvements in the cost and quality of printing technology are enabling some of our competitors to gain access to products of complex design and functionality at competitive costs. Increased competition from these competitors could force us to reduce our prices in order to attract and retain customers, which could reduce our profits. We could experience labor disputes that could disrupt our business in the future. As of February 29, 2008, approximately 12% of our domestic employees are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiations. Two unions represent all of our hourly employees in Mexico. There can be no assurance that any future labor negotiations will prove successful, which may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor, or may break down and result in the disruption of our business or operations. We obtain our raw materials from a limited number of suppliers and any disruption in our relationships with these suppliers, or any substantial increase in the price of raw materials, material shortages, or an increase in transportation costs, could have a material adverse effect on us. Cotton yarn is the primary raw material used in Alstyle’s manufacturing processes. Cotton accounts for approximately 40% of the manufactured product cost. Alstyle acquires its yarn from three major sources that meet stringent quality and on-time delivery requirements. The largest supplier provides more than 70% of Alstyle’s yarn requirements and has an entire yarn mill dedicated to Alstyle’s production. If Alstyle’s relations with its suppliers are disrupted, Alstyle may not be able to enter into arrangements with substitute suppliers on terms as favorable as its current terms and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Alstyle generally acquires its cotton yarn under short-term purchase orders with its suppliers, and has exposure to swings in cotton market prices. Alstyle does not use derivative instruments, including cotton option contracts, to manage its exposure to movements in cotton market prices. Alstyle may use such derivative instruments in the future. We believe we are competitive with other companies in the United States apparel industry in negotiating the price of cotton. However, any significant increase in the price of cotton or shortages in the availability of cotton as the result of farmers switching to alternative crops, such as corn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Freight costs also represent a significant cost to our apparel company. We incur freight costs associated with the delivery of yarn to our manufacturing facility in Anaheim, CA. We also incur freight costs associated with transporting our knit and dyed products to Mexico and our final sewn products from Mexico to our various distribution centers. Any significant increase in transportation costs due to increased fuel costs, etc. could have a material impact on our reported apparel margins. We also purchase our paper products from a limited number of sources, which meet stringent quality and on-time delivery standards under long-term contracts. However, fluctuations in the quality of our paper, unexpected price increases, etc. could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 8 Table of Contents Alstyle faces intense competition to gain market share, which may lead some competitors to sell substantial amounts of goods at prices against which we cannot profitably compete. Demand for Alstyle’s products is dependent on the general demand for shirts and the availability of alternative sources of supply. Alstyle’s strategy in this market environment is to be a low cost producer and to differentiate itself by providing quality service to its customers. Even if this strategy is successful, its results may be offset by reductions in demand or price declines. Apparel business is subject to cyclical trends. The United States apparel industry is sensitive to the business cycle of the national economy. Moreover, the popularity, supply and demand for particular apparel products can change significantly from year to year. Alstyle may be unable to compete successfully in any industry downturn due to excess capacity. Our apparel foreign operations could be subject to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other market barriers and political and economic instability in the countries where it operates, which could negatively impact our operating results. Alstyle operates cutting and sewing facilities in Mexico, and sources certain product manufacturing and purchases in El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras, Pakistan, China, and Southeast Asia. Alstyle’s foreign operations could be subject to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other market barriers and political and economic instability in the countries where it operates. The impact of any such events that may occur in the future could subject Alstyle to additional costs or loss of sales, which could adversely affect our operating results. In particular, Alstyle operates its facilities in Mexico pursuant to the “maquiladora” duty-free program established by the Mexican and United States governments. This program enables Alstyle to take advantage of generally lower costs in Mexico, without paying duty on inventory shipped into or out of Mexico. There can be no assurance that the governments of Mexico and the United States will continue the program currently in place or that Alstyle will continue to be able to benefit from this program. The loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on our business. Our apparel products are subject to foreign competition, which in the past has been faced with significant U.S. government import restrictions. Foreign producers of apparel often have significant labor cost advantages. Given the number of these foreign producers, the substantial elimination of import protections that protect domestic apparel producers could materially adversely affect Alstyle’s business. The extent of import protection afforded to domestic apparel producers has been, and is likely to remain, subject to considerable political considerations. The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) became effective on January 1, 1994 and has created a free-trade zone among Canada, Mexico, and the United States. NAFTA contains a rule of origin requirement that products be produced in one of the three countries in order to benefit from the agreement. NAFTA has phased out all trade restrictions and tariffs among the three countries on apparel products competitive with those of Alstyle. Alstyle performs substantially all of its cutting and sewing in five plants located in Mexico in order to take advantage of the NAFTA benefits. Subsequent repeal or alteration of NAFTA could adversely affect our business. The Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) became effective May 28, 2004 and retroactive to January 1, 2004 for textiles and apparel. It creates a free trade zone similar to NAFTA by and between the United States and Central American countries (El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Dominican Republic.) Textiles and apparel will be duty-free and quota-free immediately if they meet the agreement’s rule of origin, promoting new opportunities for U.S. and Central American fiber, yarn, fabric and apparel manufacturing. The agreement will also give duty-free benefits to some apparel made in Central America that contains certain fabrics from NAFTA partners Mexico and Canada. Alstyle sources approximately 20% of its sewing to a contract manufacturer in El Salvador, and we do not anticipate that this will have a material effect on our operations. The World Trade Organization (WTO), a multilateral trade organization, was formed in January 1995 and is the successor to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). This multilateral trade organization has set forth mechanisms by which world trade in clothing is being progressively liberalized by phasing-out quotas and reducing duties over a period of time that began in January of 1995. As it implements the WTO mechanisms, the United States government is negotiating bilateral trade agreements with developing countries, which are generally exporters of textile and apparel products, that are members of the WTO to get them to reduce their tariffs on imports of textiles and apparel in exchange for reductions by the United States in tariffs on imports of textiles and apparel. 9 Table of Contents In January 2005, United States import quotas have been removed on knitted shirts from China. The elimination of quotas and the reduction of tariffs under the WTO may result in increased imports of certain apparel products into North America. In May 2005, quotas on three categories of clothing imports, including knitted shirts, from China were re-imposed. A reduction of import quotas and tariffs could make Alstyle’s products less competitive against low cost imports from developing countries. Environmental regulations may impact our future operating results. We are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations establishing health and environmental quality standards, and may be subject to liability or penalties for violations of those standards. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing remediation of contamination at facilities currently or formerly owned or operated by us or to which we have sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, recycling or disposal. We may be subject to future liabilities or obligations as a result of new or more stringent interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In addition, we may have liabilities or obligations in the future if we discover any environmental contamination or liability at any of our facilities, or at facilities we may acquire. We depend upon the talents and contributions of a limited number of individuals, many of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss or interruption of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Apparel Division, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain employment agreements with these individuals, it cannot be assured that the services of such individuals will continue. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 