Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual operating results and developments to be materially different from those expressed or implied in any of our public announcements or filings including this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 26, 2010. These risks and uncertainties include the following items, which do not represent a comprehensive list of all the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Over the Counter — Bulletin Board which may limit purchase and sale of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTC-BB”). Certain investors have policies and regulations that may not allow investment in our common stock because it is listed on the OTC-BB. This may limit trading volume and affect the price of our common stock. In general, the market price of securities of thinly traded public companies has historically faced significant volatility. Our common stock does not experience a significant average daily trading volume. Accordingly, if one stockholder either elects to purchase or sell a block of our common stock, it may have a significant effect on the current trading price. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Factors that have influenced the trading prices for our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following: • actual or anticipated operating results; • market conditions in the industries in which we compete; • announcements by competitors; • results of litigation; • regulatory actions; and • general economic conditions. Any of the above factors would likely affect the market price of our common stock. During the current fiscal year, our core business, aircrew training simulators, was awarded three large multi-year contracts, two with the U.S. Department of Defense and one with a major international defense agency. Purchases such as these are infrequent and inconsistent. The U.S. Defense contracts were awarded under funds appropriated under the Base Realignment and Closure Act (BRAC). This Act had a specific focus and purpose and funds allocation. Although possible, it should not be assumed that additional awards will be obtained under this Act nor that additional funding under this Act will be available. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional contracts under BRAC funding our financial performance could be significantly negatively impacted. As of February 26, 2010, $48.3 million of our backlog was for two contracts awarded under BRAC funds. Additionally, $37.5 million represented one large international contract. We currently have a major outstanding proposal for another U.S. defense purchase which is also covered under BRAC funds. Given the political and economic environment, and the extremely competitive nature of these contracts, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining this or any major U.S. Defense contract. We have spent significant funds over the prior years to develop advanced technologies to support the defense simulator industry and our cost of software, plant assets and operating expenses is relatively high in comparison to our revenue base. Also, the cost of preparing these complicated proposals is significant. (Depending on the size and nature of the proposal, preparation costs including pre-engineering costs can exceed $500,000.) Consequently, our financial performance is highly dependent upon obtaining these contracts. There is a risk of an unfavorable outcome in litigation and resulting negative financial impact on our operating results. On May 29, 2008, a Request for Arbitration was filed against the Company with the Secretariat of the International Court of Arbitration by Mends International Ltd. (“Mends”). Mends’ Request for Arbitration arose out of a February 3, 1999 contract between the Company and Mends wherein Mends purchased aeromedical equipment for sale to the Nigerian Air Force. Mends asserted a claim for breach of contract and demanded $797,486, plus interest and costs. On September 16, 2008, Mends filed an Amended Request for Arbitration, adding tort claims for conversion and breach of fiduciary duty and seeking punitive damages. In response, the Company asserted a counterclaim seeking damages for other disputes with Mends that have arisen under the contract that Mends has put at issue in this arbitration. On April 27, 2009 the Company participated in an arbitration hearing in the United Kingdom on this matter. As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a decision had not been determined in this matter, although one is anticipated in the near future. The Company is contesting this arbitration case vigorously; however, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, the Company has recorded a reserve in this matter. 7 Table of Contents Our sources of revenues are not consistent; they tend to be concentrated within a few contracts with a few customers and in a particular mix. It cannot be assumed that any of these contracts, customers or mix will recur in future years. In any given fiscal year, a substantial portion of our revenues is typically derived from a small number of contracts and customers. In fiscal 2010, sales to two customers each represented 10% or more of total sales, totaling $10,536,000 or 24.6% of our total sales. In fiscal 2009, one customer contributed $7,327,000 or 20.0% of total sales. Of the February 26, 2010 sales backlog, one product line represented at least 10% of the total backlog: aircrew training systems ($81,707,000, 84.3%). Additionally, three customers represented a total of $85,724,000, or 88.4%, of the total backlog. At February 27, 2009 one customer accounted for 44.1% of our sales backlog. Of significance is the continued mix shift in fiscal year-end backlog to U.S. Governmental contracts. At February 26, 2010 this category constituted 51.0% of the total backlog and at February 26, 2009, U.S. Government contracts constituted 46.9% of the total backlog. It is also important to note that almost the entire U.S. Government backlog at February 26, 2010 reflected contracts awarded under funding allocated to the Base Realignment and Closure Act (BRAC). It should not be assumed that significant U.S. Government contracts of this magnitude would necessarily be awarded in the future. Our debt is concentrated and directly dependent upon either direct arrangements or under guarantee arrangements with H. F. Lenfest. In addition to cash flow from operations, a significant portion of our cash needs are supplied under direct arrangements or bank agreements guaranteed personally by H.F. Lenfest, a major shareholder and member of our Board of Directors. Mr. Lenfest has supplanted or provided funding in multiple arrangements and at multiple times since 2003. Should these personal guarantees no longer be available, this event might cause a disruption of available funds under our various financing arrangements. Additionally, we have a significant amount of indebtedness and Mr. Lenfest’s preferred stock. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future additional sources of cash available to us to service our required payments. Our ability to make debt payments depends on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Based upon our current level of operations and anticipated growth, we believe that cash on hand, future availability under the PNC Bank line of credit and our Line of Credit with Mr. Lenfest will be adequate to meet our future obligations through at least June 1, 2011. However, given that our bank debt is personally guaranteed by Mr. Lenfest and that all of our arrangements and agreements are with him as an individual, there can be no assurance that, should our business not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our debts or to make necessary capital expenditures, we will be successful in negotiating new financial arrangements with Mr. Lenfest or any other party, or that any refinancing of debt would be available and on commercially reasonable terms. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Annual Report to Stockholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We need to attain validation from the U.S. defense agencies of our Authentic Tactical Fighting Systems technology. A challenge for our ATFS technology has been marketing this technology to the world’s defense agencies. This is a new technology that is contrary to the conventional training belief that tactical flight and combat skills can only be learned in a flying aircraft. Although we made significant progress toward this goal during fiscal 2010 by being awarded a contract by the United States Air Force to provide a high performance training and research human centrifuge, at this point we cannot be certain that we will be able to overcome conventional thinking on training nor achieve an acceptable level of validation with respect to the applicability and efficacy of ATFS training. Our operations involve rapidly evolving products and technological change. The pace of technological change impacts products in our Training Services Group. Changing technology requires us to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Technology development is only partially funded through enhancements included in customer orders. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development nor that this development will be customer-funded in the same ratio going forward. Reinvestment of operating funds and profits in an amount greater than currently earned may be required. Even so, we cannot be assured that we will successfully identify new opportunities and continue to have the financial resources required to develop new products profitably. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. 8 Table of Contents Long term contracts under percentage of completion (“POC”) accounting comprise a significant portion of our fiscal 2010 revenues and our backlog at February 26, 2010. Delays in the delivery of our products may prevent us from invoicing our costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. At February 26, 2010, contracts accounted for under the percentage of completion (“POC”) accounting method comprised $91,143,000 or 94.0% of our total backlog. Additionally, contracts under POC accounted for $29,066,000 or 68.8% of our total revenues. In conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for long-term contracts under the POC accounting method, we record, due to timing differences, an asset for our costs and estimated earnings that exceed the amount we are able to bill our customers on uncompleted contracts. At February 26, 2010, this asset totaled $3,576,000. Although a significant portion of these costs have been billed and collected since the end of our fiscal year, we cannot bill additional amounts unless and until we meet certain contractual milestones related to the production, delivery and integration of our products. Typically, there will be a time lag ranging from six to twenty-four months between performance and associated costs for these types of projects and billing and collection of all contract payments. Our failure to meet milestones by delivering and integrating our products in a timely manner may impact our ability to collect final payments on these contracts, which could severely impact our cash flow. For an explanation of percentage of completion accounting, see the section “Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report to Stockholders attached hereto as Exhibit 13 and incorporated herein by reference. In the event we suffer production delays, we may be required to pay certain customers substantial liquidated damages and other penalties. The variety and complexity of our high technology product lines require us to deal with a multitude of suppliers and subcontractors. Some of the parts we purchase are highly specialized. Planning production, optimizing inventory levels, and meeting delivery schedules all require high coordination and at times may have conflicting goals. Most of our large aircrew training simulators and our software products must be custom designed and manufactured, which is not only complicated and expensive, but can also require long periods of time to accomplish. Slight errors in design, planning and managing production, inventory levels, delivery schedules, or manufacturing can result in unsatisfactory products that may not be correctable. If we are unable to meet our delivery schedules, we may be subject to penalties, which may have an adverse impact on our business. Our fixed-price and cost-reimbursement contracts may commit us to unfavorable terms. Historically, we have provided our products and services primarily through fixed-price contracts. Under a fixed-price contract, we agree to perform the scope of work required by the contract for a predetermined contract price. Although a fixed-price contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain contract losses. Therefore, unless there are customer-requested changes in scope or other changes in specifications which are reimbursable, we fully absorb cost overruns on fixed-price contracts and this reduces our profit margin on the contract. These cost overruns may result in us recognizing a loss on a contract. A further risk associated with fixed-price contracts is the difficulty of estimating sales and costs that are related to performance in accordance with contract specifications. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce our profitability and may cause us to incur a loss on the project. Although significant portions of our revenues are generated from the sale of our services and products in commercial markets, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in these markets. Most of our commercial contracts contain fixed pricing which subjects us to substantial risks relating to unexpected cost increases and other factors outside of our control. We may fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract. Any of these failures may reduce our profit or may cause a loss under our commercial contracts. In connection with certain commercial contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit, or similar credit enhancements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining these types of instruments or that these types of instruments, if available, will be affordable in the future. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must satisfy strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. If we fail to meet these performance obligations and milestones, the other party may terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 9 Table of Contents As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. Government contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. In addition, current U.S. Government budgetary constraints could lead to changes in the procurement environment. If such changes occur, our costs of complying with procurement requirements could increase and reduce our margins. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The termination of a government contract or relationship could also, under certain circumstances, result in our suspension or debarment from future government contracting for a period of time, and this could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. Presently, the Company is not aware of any circumstances which could result in its suspension or debarment from government contracting. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. As a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. Government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the contractor’s adequacy of and compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit contains a significant adverse finding, we could be subject to penalties and fines and contract termination, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The termination of a government contract or relationship could also, under certain circumstances, result in our suspension or debarment from future government contracting for a period of time, and this could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. Presently, the Company is not aware of any circumstances which could result in a significant adverse finding by the DCAA. Our contracts that are funded by the U.S. Government or foreign governments are subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. Government supply contracts generally are awarded to us through a competitive bidding process in which we may have many qualified competitors. Upon expiration, government supply contracts may be subject, once again, to the competitive bidding process. We cannot assure that we will be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of technical merit, personnel qualifications, financial capability, experience and price. In addition, new government contract awards also are subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competitive bidding process, the evaluation process or the award of a contract to a competitor. Other characteristics of the government contract market that may affect our operating results include the complexity of designs, and the difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Our earnings may vary materially on some contracts depending upon the types of government long-term contracts undertaken, the costs incurred in their performance, and the achievement of other performance objectives. Our international business is subject to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. Our international business exposes us to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. These risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. In addition, our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. Our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic and political factors, as well as U.S. foreign policy. Our international sales are subject to U.S. laws, regulations and policies, which sometimes include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), and other export laws and regulations. They are also subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from U.S. Government regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency, geo-political and economic risks. Our international contracts may include requirements on specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offsets, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. As a result of these factors, we could experience award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Legislative actions resulting in higher compliance costs are likely to adversely affect our future consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Compliance with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and new regulations enacted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), are resulting in increased compliance costs. We, like all other public companies, are incurring expenses and diverting employees’ time in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are a smaller reporting company, and have completed the process of documenting our systems of internal control and have evaluated our systems of internal control. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2007, we have been required to assess continuously our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect to continue to devote the necessary resources, including internal and external resources, to support our assessment. In the future, if we identify one or more material weaknesses, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our report is fairly stated or to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, this could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, have an adverse effect on our stock price and/or subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Compliance with these evolving standards will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may cause a diversion of our time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Changes in healthcare policy could increase our costs and impact sales of and reimbursement for our tests. Several proposals to reform the system of health care delivery in the U.S. are currently being considered by the federal and many state governments. Some of the reforms call for a government sponsored health plan. A number of states are also contemplating significant reform of their healthcare policies. A proposal for additional government-funded health care could subject expenditures for health care to governmental budget constraints and limits on spending. We cannot predict what healthcare policy reforms, if any, will be adopted or the effect that such adoption may have on our taxes, fees and other costs, which could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to environmental laws and potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including the handling and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous wastes, the recycling and treatment of electrical and electronic equipment, and emissions and discharges into the environment. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities. We are also subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Based on currently available information, although there can be no assurance, we believe that such costs and liabilities have not had and will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings tend to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: • the number, size and scope of our projects; • the mix of contracts (POC versus other); • equipment purchases and other expenditures required for our business; • our ability to finance our operations; • the number of bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • delays in sales bookings or production; • the level of employee productivity; • the adequacy of our provisions for receivable, inventory and other losses; • the accuracy of our estimate of resources required to complete ongoing projects; and • general economic conditions. Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets or schedules and other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of our investors in a particular period. 11 Table of Contents Our officers and directors own a significant amount of our common stock which permits them to exert significant influence over the direction of our business and affairs. As of May 1, 2010, our directors and executive officers own and could vote an aggregate of approximately 73.7% on a fully converted basis of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our directors and executive officers, if they act together, will be able to exert significant control over the direction of our business and affairs. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. The loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel, could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 