Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual operating results and developments to be materially different from those expressed or implied in any of our public announcements or filings including this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 23, 2007. These risks and uncertainties include the following items. This list is not inclusive of all the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. We have major litigation and claims in process and these require a significant amount of management time and effort. Additionally, legal costs are a major portion of our general and administrative spending, thus redirecting funds from other operating activities. We are currently preparing our claim with the U.S. Government to go to trial in July of this year. Additionally, we anticipate that our litigation with Disney will be resolved this fiscal year. Legal and claims costs in fiscal 2007 were $1.4 million or 15% of total general and administrative spending and 8% of sales. It is expected that this spending level will increase in fiscal 2008 as litigation nears the trial stage. See Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) for further information on our litigation. There is a risk of an unfavorable outcome in litigation and resulting potential negative financial impact on our operating results. In one of our cases of commercial litigation currently in progress, we have been counter-sued for an amount in excess of $65 million. While we believe we have valid defenses to each of the counterclaims and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these counterclaims, an unfavorable outcome could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position. With respect to our claim against the U.S. government, recoveries from prior claims of this nature have usually exceeded the carrying value of claims. However, this claim was filed in the Court of Federal Appeals whereas prior government claims were filed with the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals (ASBCA), which has complicated the litigation process. This case is currently scheduled for trial in July 2007. Our claims require significant management time and effort. Also, there is no assurance that we will always have positive experience with regard to recoveries for our contract claims, whether at the carrying values of the claims or amounts in excess of the carrying values of the claims, and an unfavorable result could have a material adverse effect on our financial situation. Our sources of revenues are not consistent; in any given fiscal year a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers that may not be recurring customers in future years. In any given fiscal year, a substantial portion of our revenues is typically derived from a small number of customers. For example, in fiscal 2007 one customer Jupitor (Japan) represented approximately 19% of total sales. In fiscal 2006 we generated approximately 30% of our revenues from sales to two customers, L-3 Communications and the Pakistan Air Force. In fiscal 2005, we generated approximately 36% of our revenues from sales to four customers, the Royal Malaysian Air Force, the United Kingdom Ministry of Defense, the Army Corp of Engineers, and a domestic customer. Two customers accounted for 44% of our sales backlog at February 23, 2007. We cannot be certain that our most significant customers at any point in time will continue to order our products and services at the same level at which they have ordered them in the past. Due to the expensive nature and highly specialized market for our products and services, if any of these customers stops purchasing our products and services and we are unable to identify new customers in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. If our funding source does not provide us with sufficient funds to operate our business, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Since 2003, H. F. Lenfest, a member of the Board of Directors of ETC, has provided significant funds which we have used to operate our business. Mr. Lenfest has also personally guaranteed our obligations to our commercial lender. In connection with our filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Mr. Lenfest has entered into an agreement with ETC pursuant to which he has agreed, subject to the terms of the agreement, to continue to fund our operations through June 30, 2008, provided that ETC shall not request more than an additional $10 million in the aggregate from May 9, 2007, through June 30, 2008, including all requests made under our existing unsecured promissory note and equity credit line. We are also in discussions with a commercial lender to obtain debt financing for our operations, which Mr. Lenfest has agreed to personally guarantee if we enter into a financing arrangement with the lender. We can provide no assurance regarding our ability to secure commercial financing for our operations. If Mr. Lenfest is unable or unwilling to fund our operations and we were unable to identify a suitable funding source to replace the financing provided by Mr. Lenfest, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial resources and prevent us from satisfying our debt service obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our subordinated debt, $10,000,000 face value, carries an interest rate of 10%, although this rate has been temporarily reduced to 8% for the period from December 1, 2004 through November 30, 2007. Our outstanding preferred stock (issued in 2006 to Mr. Lenfest) carries a coupon of 6% per annum. On November 16, 2006, the Company executed an Unsecured Promissory Note (the “Lenfest Note”) in favor of Mr. Lenfest in the aggregate principal amount of $3,000,000. Pursuant to the terms of the Lenfest Note, ETC can borrow up to $3,000,000, in increments of $1,000,000, prior to the maturity date of 8 Table of Contents October 6, 2007. Any borrowings under the Lenfest Note will carry an interest rate of 6% per annum. To conserve cash outlay, Mr. Lenfest has agreed to defer the actual payment of all dividends on outstanding preferred stock until April 6, 2012 or upon 30 days written notice of demand, but not before June 30, 2008. Additionally, starting with the interest payment on our subordinated debt which was due on December 1, 2006, Mr. Lenfest has agreed to defer payment of interest until February 18, 2009 or until such time as we receive written demand notice of payment, but not before June 30, 2008. (Mr. Lenfest has also agreed to waive paying interest on deferred interest payments.) Since our bank agreement with PNC expires in June 2007 and both the Lenfest Equity Line and the Lenfest Note expire in October 2007, we will need to restructure or replace our financing arrangements. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future borrowings available to us, sufficient to pay our debt. During fiscal 2007 and 2006 we experienced negative cash flows from operations of $6,997,000 and $7,849,000, respectively. At May 11, 2007, our short-term debt was $2,000,000, total long-term debt was $10,000,000 and we had $6,000,000 of outstanding preferred stock. Our total stockholders’ equity was $14,791,000. As of the date of this filing on Form 10-K, we had $9 million available under the Lenfest Equity Line and $1 million available under the Lenfest Note. Our ability to make debt payments depends on future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. We are currently in negotiations with a bank to establish a line of credit which will either replace or supplant our existing equity line and unsecured note with Mr. Lenfest. Based upon our current level of operations and anticipated growth, we believe that cash on hand and borrowings under either our existing arrangements or new arrangements with Mr. Lenfest and/or others will be adequate to meet our financial needs. There can be no assurance, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our debts or to make necessary capital expenditures, that we will be successful in negotiating new financial arrangements, or that any refinancing of debt would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences including: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or unavailable; • a portion of cash flow may be required to pay interest expense, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; • a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or an increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to reduce or modify our operations; • our significant debt may make us more leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • our significant debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or in the economy generally; • some of our existing debt contains financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to borrow additional funds, acquire and dispose of assets, and pay cash dividends; • our subordinated debt bears a relatively high interest rate, reflecting the unsecured nature and correspondingly higher risk associated with this type of financing. This results in higher interest expense and potential use of cash; and • although currently none of our debt bears interest at rates that vary with the prime rate of interest, it is expected that any additional debt which we might incur would carry a floating rate. If this were the case, any increases in the applicable prime rate of interest would reduce our earnings. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Annual Report to Stockholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not currently have a bank facility which can be used to borrow funds for operating purposes. On November 16, 2006, we entered into a Letter Agreement with PNC Bank. This Letter Agreement amended, restated and replaced the existing PNC Credit Agreement. Pursuant to such agreement, PNC Bank (i) terminated our Credit Agreement dated as of February 18, 2003 (ii) re-approved our $5 million Line of Credit for Letters of Credit, and (iii) re-affirmed the Tangible Net Worth covenant (as defined in the Agreement) to a be a minimum of $9,000,000. The $5 million Line of Credit for Letters of Credit continued to be guaranteed by Mr. Lenfest. As of February 23, 2007, we had used approximately $2,607,000 of the availability under the PNC Agreement for international letters of credit. We may need to obtain additional sources of capital in order to continue growing and operating our business. This capital may be difficult to obtain and the cost of this additional capital is likely to be relatively high. Our subordinated debt agreement with Mr. Lenfest contains significant financial and operating covenants that limit the discretion of our management with respect to certain business matters. These covenants include, among others, restrictions on our ability to: • declare or pay dividends or any other distributions to our securities holders; • redeem or repurchase capital stock; • incur certain additional debt; • place liens on our assets; • make certain payments and investments; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; and 9 Table of Contents • acquire or be acquired by other entities. We must also meet certain financial ratios and tests under our subordinated agreement with Mr. Lenfest. If we do not comply with the obligations set forth in the agreement, it could result in an event of default, and possibly the acceleration of the related debt. Negative operating results would impact our future compliance with these covenants and could adversely affect our business. We are currently in negotiations with a bank to establish a line of credit which will either replace or supplant our existing equity line and unsecured note with Mr. Lenfest. Because we have established businesses in many markets, significant fixed assets including a building, and other business assets which can be used for security, we believe that we will be able to locate such additional sources of capital, although there is no assuredness that we will be successful in this endeavor. Effective May 9, 2007, the Company entered into a letter agreement with Mr. Lenfest (“the Lenfest Letter Agreement”) whereas Mr. Lenfest agreed to provide financial support to the Company in the form of a guarantee and/or provide access to funding until June 30, 2008. The Company is currently in negotiations with an institutional lender in connection with a proposed facility which would require the personal guarantee of Mr. Lenfest. If successful, the proposed facility would replace the Company’s current equity credit line and unsecured promissory note with Mr. Lenfest. Alternately, Mr. Lenfest has agreed to maintain his existing financial arrangements with the Company and in addition provide additional funding, provided that the Company shall not request more than an additional $10 million in the aggregate from the date of the Lenfest Letter Agreement through June 30, 2008, including all requests made under the existing $3 million unsecured promissory note and the $15 million equity credit line. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Annual Report to Stockholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are attempting to introduce a new business model in two of our divisions. In a major re-engineering of our aeromedical business, we are shifting our business model from reliance on building aeromedical products to providing both tactical combat flight training and G-force instruction. In fiscal 2006, we began construction of the National Aerospace Training and Research Center. This center, set to open in fiscal 2008, is an integrated pilot training center offering a complete range of aviation training and research support for military jet pilots and civil aviation as well as space travel and tourism. In our ADMS division, we have contracted marketing studies to evaluate the best way to sell simulation training. The result was a decision to migrate to a services-based approach. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in this new approach of marketing training services. We need to attain validation from the U.S. defense agencies of our Authentic Tactical Fighting Systems technology. A second and equally challenging issue for our ATFS technology has been marketing this technology to the world’s defense agencies. This is a new technology that goes contrary to conventional training belief that tactical flight and combat skills can only be learned in a flying aircraft. In January 2007 we achieved a major milestone in that the U.S. Air Force Research Lab prepared a business plan which incorporated the funds to build a joint strike fighter cockpit for the ATFS-400 simulator. This is the first step towards testing and validation of this technology by the U.S. military. At this point we cannot be certain that we will be able to overcome the conventional thinking on training nor achieve an acceptable level of validation with respect to the applicability and efficacy of ATFS training. We have invested a significant amount of capital and resources in creating the NASTAR Center. We cannot be certain that we will generate enough training revenues to recoup the major investment we have made to develop, produce and construct the equipment and building modifications for the NASTAR Center. Our operations involve rapidly evolving products and technological change. The rapid change of technology is a key feature of most of the industries in which our businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through both customer-funded and internally funded research and development, and we expect this practice will continue to be required in the future. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development nor that this development will be customer-funded in the same ratio going forward. Reinvestment of operating funds and profits in an amount greater than currently earned may be required. Even so, we cannot be assured you that we will successfully identify new opportunities and continue to have the financial resources required to develop new products profitably. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. 10 Table of Contents Delays in the delivery of our products may prevent us from invoicing our costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for long-term contracts, under the percentage of completion (“POC”) accounting method, we record an asset for our costs and estimated earnings that exceed the amount we are able to bill our customers on uncompleted contracts. At February 23, 2007, this asset totaled $2.8 million. Although a significant portion of these costs have been billed and collected since fiscal year-end, we cannot bill additional amounts unless and until we meet certain contractual milestones related to the production, delivery and integration of our products. Normally there will be a lag ranging from 6 to 24 months between performance and associated costs for these types of projects and billing and collection of payments. Our failure to meet these milestones by delivering and integrating our products in a timely manner may impact our ability to recover our costs and estimated earnings that exceeded our billings on uncompleted contracts, which could severely impact our cash flow. In the event we suffer production delays, we may be required to pay certain customers substantial liquidated damages and other penalties. The variety and complexity of our high technology product lines require us to deal with suppliers and subcontractors supplying highly specialized parts, operating highly sophisticated equipment and performing highly technical calculations. The processes of planning and managing production, inventory levels and delivery schedules are also highly complex and specialized. Many of our products must be custom designed and manufactured, which is not only complicated and expensive, but can also require long periods of time to accomplish. Slight errors in design, planning and managing production, inventory levels, delivery schedules, or manufacturing can result in unsatisfactory products that may not be correctable. If we are unable to meet our delivery schedules, we may be subject to penalties, including liquidated damages that are included in some of our customer contracts. Except for the RTAF contract (See Note 4 Accounts Receivable in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements section of the Annual Report to Stockholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K), our actual losses have been minimal, but we may incur substantial liquidated damages in the future in connection with product delays. Our fixed-price and cost-reimbursable contracts may commit us to unfavorable terms. Historically, we have provided our products and services primarily through fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts provided approximately 92% of our sales for the fiscal year ended February 23, 2007. Under a fixed-price contract, we agree to perform the scope of work required by the contract for a predetermined contract price. Although a fixed-price contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract. Therefore, unless there are customer-requested changes in scope or other changes in specifications which are reimbursable, we fully absorb cost overruns on fixed-price contracts and this reduces our profit margin on the contract. These cost overruns may result in us recognizing a loss on the contract. A further risk associated with fixed-price contracts is the difficulty of estimating sales and costs that are related to performance in accordance with contract specifications. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce our profitability or cause a loss. Cost estimates used to account for contracts under the percentage of completion method may vary over time and impact future performance under these contracts. We record sales and profits on a significant portion of our contracts using the POC method of accounting. On long-term contracts over $250,000 in value and over six months in length the POC revenue recognition method is utilized. Under this method a percentage is calculated based on costs incurred from inception to date on a contract as compared to the estimated total costs required to fulfill the contract. This percentage is then multiplied by the contract value to determine the amount of revenue to be recognized in any given accounting period. As a result, contract price and cost estimates on fixed-price contracts are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments are reflected in income in the period when the estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a loss, reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material and have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we believe that adequate provisions for losses for our fixed-prices contracts are recorded in our financial statements as required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we cannot assure you that our contract loss provisions, which are based on estimates, will be adequate to cover all actual future losses. Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government or foreign governments are subject to government regulations, audits and other requirements. Government contracts require compliance with various contract provisions and procurement regulations. The adoption of new or modified procurement regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or increase the costs of competing for or performing government contracts. If we violate any of these regulations, then we may be subject to termination of these contracts, imposition of fines or exclusion from government contracting and government-approved subcontracting for some specific time period. In addition, our contract costs and revenues are subject to adjustment as a result of audits by government auditors. We reflect any adjustments required by government auditors in our financial statements. Although we have 11 Table of Contents thus far not been required to make any material audit adjustments, adjustments may be required in the future. In connection with our government contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit or similar credit enhancements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining these types of credit enhancements or that the credit enhancements available will be affordable in the future. Our contracts that are funded by the U.S. government or foreign governments are subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. Government contracts generally are awarded to us through a formal competitive bidding process in which we may have many competitors. Upon expiration, government contracts may be subject, once again, to the competitive bidding process. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our contracts with domestic or foreign government agencies are subject to competition and are awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, experience and price. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected to the extent that government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, new government contract awards also are subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competition or evaluation process, the award of a contract to a competitor, or the re-opening of the competitive bidding process. We consider bid protests to be a customary element in the process of procuring government contracts. Other characteristics of the government contract market that may affect our operating results include the complexity of designs, the difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and the speed with which product lines become obsolete due to technological advances and other factors characteristic of the market. Our earnings may vary materially on some contracts depending upon the types of government long-term contracts undertaken, the costs incurred in their performance, and the achievement of other performance objectives. Our commercial contracts are subject to competition and strict performance and other requirements. Although significant portions of our revenues are generated from the sale of our services and products in commercial markets, we cannot assure you that we will continue to compete successfully in these markets. Most of our commercial contracts contain fixed pricing which subjects us to substantial risks relating to unexpected cost increases and other factors outside of our control. We may fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract. Any of these failures may reduce our profit or cause a loss under our commercial contracts. In connection with certain commercial contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit, or similar credit enhancements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining these types of credit enhancements or that the credit enhancements available will be affordable in the future. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must agree to meet strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. If we fail to meet these performance obligations and milestones, the other party may terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities, which constitute a significant portion of our business. Our international business activities expose us to a variety of risks. Our international business including that from our foreign subsidiaries, accounted for approximately 62% of our sales in fiscal 2007 and 53% of our sales in fiscal 2006. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of our overall business in the foreseeable future. Our international business experiences many of the same risks our domestic business encounters as well as additional risks such as: • the effects of terrorism; • exchange rate fluctuations; • a longer and more complicated collections cycle; • a high degree of corruption in some countries; • a general decline in the strength of the global economy; • the effect of foreign military or political conflicts and turmoil; • U.S. foreign policy decisions; • the extent, if any, of anti-American sentiment; • changes in foreign governmental trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; • export controls; and • political and economic instability. The majority of our contracts which originate from ETC-Southampton are denominated in U.S. dollars. Except for intercompany work, and contracts with U.S. based companies, most of our contracts which originate from ETC-PZL are in Polish Zlotys. 12 Table of Contents Since most of our production and administrative costs are based in U.S. dollars, a weakening of the U.S. dollar currency versus other international currencies may make our pricing un-competitive when compared to foreign local in-country competitors. Although we may be exposed to currency fluctuations, we are not engaged in any material hedging activities to offset this risk. With respect to currency risk, where we have a large on-going contract which is denominated in a foreign currency, we often establish local in-country bank accounts and fund in-country expenses in the local currency, thus creating a “natural” currency hedge for a portion of the contract. Our international transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from stringent contractual terms and conditions and widely differing legal systems, banking requirements, customs and standards in foreign countries. In addition, our international sales often include sales to various foreign government armed forces, with many of the same inherent risks associated with U.S. government sales discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Legislative actions, higher director and officer insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to cause our general and administrative expenses to increase and impact our future financial condition and results of operations. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as changes to the American Stock Exchange listing standards and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), we have been required to strengthen our internal controls, hire additional personnel and retain additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which have caused and will continue to cause our general and administrative costs to increase. These and other costs of operating as a public company totaled approximately $600,000 in fiscal 2007. We anticipate that public company costs will continue to constitute a significant portion of our general and administrative spending going forward. Although we have not experienced any director and officer liability claims, these premiums are a significant part of our business insurance premiums and may increase as a result of the (i) high claims rates insurers have incurred with other companies over the past years (ii) the high stock ownership position of some of our non-affiliated shareholders, and (iii) our reduced operating performance. Changes in the accounting rules and auditing standards, including legislative and other proposals to account for employee stock options as a compensation expense, among others, could materially increase the expenses that we incur and report under generally accepted accounting principles and adversely affect our operating results. Although up from the prior year, our fiscal 2008 opening backlog is still relatively lower than the balance at the beginning of most comparable prior fiscal periods. Additionally, our sales backlog is not necessarily indicative of revenues that we will actually realize in fiscal year 2008 or at all. Our opening backlog for fiscal 2008 is approximately $14.8 million. The opening backlog for fiscal years 2002 through 2005 was in excess of approximately $20 million for each year. Although our open proposal quote log remains strong and we have recently experienced renewed customer interest in some significant international aeromedical proposals, there is no assurance that we will be able to bring a significant amount of these contracts to award status. Additionally, we may not actually generate revenues in fiscal 2008 for all items included in our backlog at the end of our 2007 fiscal year. While we estimate that approximately 88% of this $14.8 million backlog will be completed prior to the end of our 2008 fiscal year, we cannot be certain that these projects will be completed so that we can record these revenues by such date, or at all. During fiscal 2007, we recorded revenue on approximately 75% of our opening backlog. Our backlog includes the total value of all contracts less any revenue recorded on those contracts through the measurement date. Many of our government contracts are multi-year contracts and contracts with option years, and portions of these contracts are carried forward from one year to the next as part of our backlog. We cannot assure that cancellations or adjustments in the terms of these contracts might not occur. Our operations could be hurt by terrorist attacks, war, disease and other activities or occurrences that make air travel difficult or reduce the willingness of our commercial airline customers to purchase our simulation products. International sales accounted for 62% and 53% of our revenues for fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. In the event terrorist attacks, war, disease or other activities or occurrences make air travel difficult or reduce the demand or willingness of our customers to purchase our commercial simulation products, our revenue may decline. Geo-political and other factors may also limit or restrict our employees’ ability to gain entrance to foreign locations to sell products or perform contract services. There is limited trading activity in our common stock which could make it difficult for our investors to sell their shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange. Our average daily trading volume on the American Stock Exchange during fiscal 2007 was 3,690 shares; on the consolidated markets (which includes shares traded on the American Stock Exchange), the average daily volume was 5,645 shares. This limited trading activity may make it difficult for investors to sell larger blocks of our common stock at prevailing prices as there are generally a small number of participants in the market for our common stock and such sales may lower the market price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of securities of thinly traded public companies has historically faced significant volatility. Although our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange, it does not experience a significant average daily trading volume. Accordingly, if one stockholder elects to either purchase or sell a block of our common stock, it may have a significant effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors that have influenced trading prices will vary from period to period, including: • actual or anticipated operating results; • changes in estimates by analysts; • market conditions in the industry; • announcements by competitors; • results of litigation; • regulatory actions; and • general economic conditions. Any of these events would likely affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: • the number, size and scope of our projects; • the mix of contracts (POC versus other); • equipment purchases and other expenditures required for our business; • the number of bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • delays in sales or production; • the level of employee productivity; • the adequacy of our provisions for receivable, inventory and other losses; • the accuracy of our estimate of resources required to complete ongoing projects; and • general economic conditions. Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets or schedules and other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in a particular period. In this event, the price of our common stock may decline. Our officers and directors own a significant amount of our common stock which permits them to exert significant influence over the direction of our business and affairs. As of May 11, 2007, our directors and executive officers own an aggregate of approximately 45.2% on a fully converted basis of our outstanding common stock. Given our equity line agreement with H.F. Lenfest and the lack of a bank facility, it is expected that this percentage will increase if we request additional funds and issue additional preferred stock under this agreement. Accordingly, our directors and executive officers, if they act together, will be able to exert control over the direction of our business and affairs. 