Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual operating results and developments to be materially different from those expressed or implied in any of our public announcements or filings including this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 27, 2009. These risks and uncertainties include the following items. This list is not inclusive of all the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. 7 Table of Contents If we are not successful in our refinancing transaction with H. F. Lenfest and PNC Bank, and if we cannot identify alternate sources of funds to meet our future debt obligations and operate our business, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. • We require additional capital in order to continue to operate our business, submit proposals for and potentially perform under significant U.S. government and international contracts and grow our Company. H.F. Lenfest, a member of our Board of Directors and a significant shareholder, has agreed to provide up to an additional $12,500,000 in capital to ETC, through a $7,500,000 credit facility and the personal guarantee of an additional $5,000,000 of borrowings from PNC Bank, subject to our obtaining various shareholder approvals discussed in our preliminary proxy statement on Schedule 14A on or around May 12, 2009. Lenfest has already provided $2,000,000 of this amount, although these funds may be used only in connection with funding a specific contract with the United States government and this $2,000,000 loan will be due and payable on August 20, 2009 if we do not obtain the shareholder approvals. A material condition to the completion of the proposed transactions is the approval of our shareholders to the various components of the proposed transaction. If we are unable to obtain shareholder approval and complete the proposed transactions with Lenfest, we will have approximately $30 million in debt owed to PNC Bank and Lenfest due between August 20, 2009 and June 30, 2010. It is unlikely that we will be able to obtain the necessary capital that we need from alternative sources, on reasonable or any terms, to repay these obligations. Without the necessary capital to continue to operate our business and to repay our various debt obligations to PNC Bank and Lenfest as they become due, we will need to consider other alternatives, such as the sale of one or more of our operating divisions, eliminating workforce or seeking relief from our creditors. If we are unsuccessful in raising sufficient additional capital our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. The Lenfest transaction includes the following: • a $7,500,000 line of credit to be provided by Lenfest ($2,000,000 of which has already been provided and which amount may be used only in connection with funding a specific contract with the United States government); • exchange of Lenfest’s Subordinated Note, together with all accrued interest and warrants issuable under this note, and all Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock, together with all accrued dividends thereon, for new Series E Preferred Stock; and • the guarantee by Lenfest of all of our obligations to PNC Bank in connection with an increase of our existing 2007 PNC Credit Facility from $15,000,000 to $20,000,000, and in connection with this guarantee, the pledge by Lenfest to PNC Bank of $10,000,000 in marketable securities. We are not in compliance with the listing standards of the NYSE AMEX LLC (formerly the American Stock Exchange) (“AMEX”) and have applied to voluntarily delist our stock from that exchange. We have been unsuccessful in reaching an agreement with NYSE AMEX LLC with respect to certain conditions set forth in our refinancing documents with Lenfest. Consequently, we have applied to voluntarily delist our common stock from trading on that exchange. The result of this action will be that in the near future our common stock will cease to be traded on the NYSE AMEX exchange and instead will trade on the “over the counter” market. Following delisting, our common stock will be quoted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board if we are current with our SEC reporting obligations and meet the standards for quotation on the Over-The-Counter-Bulletin-Board. Otherwise, it is expected that our common stock would be quoted on the Pink Sheets. The quotation of our common stock on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets will likely have the effect of making purchases and sales more difficult as well as decreasing the price of our common stock. The market price of securities of thinly traded public companies has historically faced significant volatility. Although our common stock is currently traded on the NYSE AMEX LLC, it does not experience a significant average daily trading volume. Accordingly, if one stockholder elects to either purchase or sell a block of our common stock, it may have a significant effect on the current trading price of our common stock. In addition, the 8 Table of Contents stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors that have influenced trading prices for our common stock will vary from period to period, including: • actual or anticipated operating results; • market conditions in the industries in which we compete; • announcements by competitors; • results of litigation; • regulatory actions; and • general economic conditions. Any of these events would likely affect the market price of our common stock. Our core business, aircrew training simulators, is highly dependent upon large multi-year contracts with the U.S. defense department and with defense agencies around the world. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining one or more of these contracts, our financial performance will be significantly negatively impacted. As of May 1, 2009, we have multiple outstanding proposals for large defense simulator projects. Given the political and economic environment, and the extremely competitive nature of these contracts, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining one or more of these contracts. We have spent significant funds over the prior years to develop advanced technologies to support the defense simulator industry and our cost of software, plant assets and operating expenses is relatively high in comparison to our revenue base. Also, the cost of preparing these complicated proposals is significant. Consequently, our financial performance is highly dependent upon obtaining these contracts. There is a risk of an unfavorable outcome in litigation and resulting negative financial impact on our operating results. On May 29, 2008, a Request for Arbitration was filed against us with the Secretariat of the International Court of Arbitration by Mends International Ltd. (“Mends”). Mends’s Request for Arbitration arises out of a February 3, 1999 contract between us and Mends wherein Mends purchased aeromedical equipment for sale to the Nigerian Air Force. Mends asserted a claim for breach of contract and demanded $797,486, plus interest and costs. On September 16, 2008, Mends filed an Amended Request for Arbitration, adding tort claims for conversion and breach of fiduciary duty and seeking punitive damages. In response, we have asserted a counterclaim seeking damages for other disputes with Mends that have arisen under the contract that Mends has put at issue in this arbitration. During April 2009, we participated in an arbitration hearing in the United Kingdom on this matter. The results of this hearing are not expected until June 2009. We are contesting this arbitration case vigorously. However, as of February 27, 2009, we had recorded a reserve in this matter. Our sources of revenues are not consistent; in any given fiscal year a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers that may not be recurring customers in future years. In any given fiscal year, a substantial portion of our revenues is typically derived from a small number of customers. In fiscal 2009, sales to one customer represented 10% or more of total sales, the Royal Saudi Air Force which contributed $7,327,000 or 20.0% of total sales. In fiscal 2008, one customer represented 10% or more of total sales, General Motors, which contributed $3,898,000 or 17.2% of total sales. Of the February 27, 2009 sales backlog, two product lines each represented at least 10% of the total backlog: aircrew training systems ($29,231,000, 66.0%) and disaster management simulation products ($6,397,000, 14.4%). In each of these product areas, one customer (the same customer) represented at least 10% of each respective product area. This same customer represented $19,089,000, or 44.1%, of the total backlog. At February 29, 2008 two customers accounted for 51% of our sales backlog. 9 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our most significant customers at any point in time will continue to order our products and services at the same level at which they have ordered them in the past. Due to the expensive nature and highly specialized market for our products and services, if any of these customers stops purchasing our products and services and we are unable to identify new customers in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial resources and prevent us from satisfying our debt service obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future borrowings available to us, sufficient to pay our debt. If we are unable to obtain shareholder approval and complete the proposed transactions with Lenfest and PNC Bank, we will have approximately $30 million in debt owed to PNC Bank and Lenfest due between August 20, 2009 and June 30, 2010. It is unlikely that we will be able to obtain the necessary capital that we need from alternative sources, on reasonable or any terms, to repay these obligations. During fiscal 2009 and 2008, we experienced negative cash flows from operations of approximately $.7 million and $5.8 million, respectively. At February 27, 2009, the face value of our total long-term debt due either to Lenfest or PNC Bank was $22.1 million, accrued interest and dividends due to Lenfest totaled $4.2 million and total Preferred Stock was $9.3 million. Our ability to make debt payments depends on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Based upon our current level of operations and anticipated growth, we believe that cash on hand, future availability under the PNC Bank line of credit and the refinancing proposal with Lenfest will be adequate to meet our future obligations through at least June 1, 2010. There can be no assurance, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our debts or to make necessary capital expenditures, that we will be successful in negotiating new financial arrangements including the proposed transactions with Lenfest and PNC Bank, or that any refinancing of debt would be available on commercially reasonable terms. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Annual Report to Stockholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We need to attain validation from the U.S. defense agencies of our Authentic Tactical Fighting Systems technology. A challenging issue for our ATFS technology has been marketing this technology to the world’s defense agencies. This is a new technology that is contrary to the conventional training belief that tactical flight and combat skills can only be learned in a flying aircraft. Although we made significant progress toward this goal during fiscal 2009 including completing contracts from the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Air Force to develop Tactical Aircraft Configuration Modules (TacModules) to support independent research in our ATFS high performance human centrifuge, at this point we cannot be certain that we will be able to overcome conventional thinking on training nor achieve an acceptable level of validation with respect to the applicability and efficacy of ATFS training. Our operations involve rapidly evolving products and technological change. The rapid change of technology is a key feature of the products in our Technical Services Group. This industry requires us to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Technology development is only partially funded through enhancements included in customer orders. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development nor that this development will be customer-funded in the same ratio going forward. Reinvestment of operating funds and profits in an amount greater than currently earned may be required. Even so, we cannot be assured that we will successfully identify new opportunities and continue to have the financial resources required to develop new products profitably. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. 10 Table of Contents Delays in the delivery of our products may prevent us from invoicing our costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for long-term contracts, under the percentage of completion (“POC”) accounting method, due to timing differences we record an asset for our costs and estimated earnings that exceed the amount we are able to bill our customers on uncompleted contracts. At February 27, 2009, this asset totaled $2.5 million. Although a significant portion of these costs have been billed and collected since fiscal year-end, we cannot bill additional amounts unless and until we meet certain contractual milestones related to the production, delivery and integration of our products. Typically, there will be a lag ranging from six to twenty-four months between performance and associated costs for these types of projects and billing and collection of all contract payments. Our failure to meet milestones by delivering and integrating our products in a timely manner may impact our ability to collect final payments on these contracts, which could severely impact our cash flow. In the event we suffer production delays, we may be required to pay certain customers substantial liquidated damages and other penalties. The variety and complexity of our high technology product lines require us to deal with a multitude of suppliers and subcontractors. Some of the parts we purchase are highly specialized. Planning production, optimizing inventory levels and meeting delivery schedules all require high coordination and at times may have conflicting goals. Most of our large aircrew training simulators and our software products must be custom designed and manufactured, which is not only complicated and expensive, but can also require long periods of time to accomplish. Slight errors in design, planning and managing production, inventory levels, delivery schedules, or manufacturing can result in unsatisfactory products that may not be correctable. If we are unable to meet our delivery schedules, we may be subject to penalties, which may have an adverse impact on our business. Our fixed-price and cost-reimbursement contracts may commit us to unfavorable terms. Historically, we have provided our products and services primarily through fixed-price contracts. Under a fixed-price contract, we agree to perform the scope of work required by the contract for a predetermined contract price. Although a fixed-price contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract. Therefore, unless there are customer-requested changes in scope or other changes in specifications which are reimbursable, we fully absorb cost overruns on fixed-price contracts and this reduces our profit margin on the contract. These cost overruns may result in us recognizing a loss on the contract. A further risk associated with fixed-price contracts is the difficulty of estimating sales and costs that are related to performance in accordance with contract specifications. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract reduce our profitability and may cause us to incur a loss on the project. Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. Government or foreign governments are subject to government regulations, audits and other requirements. Government contracts require compliance with various contract provisions and procurement regulations. The adoption of new or modified procurement regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or increase the costs of competing for or performing government contracts. If we violate any of these regulations, then we may be subject to termination of these contracts, imposition of fines or exclusion from government contracting and government-approved subcontracting for some specific time period. During fiscal 2008, we agreed to settle a matter with the U.S. Navy by forgoing our claim for an additional payment over the contract amount (a reserve for $3.0 million was recorded for this matter in fiscal 2007) and agreeing to pay the U.S. Navy $3.55 million. Our contract costs, progress payments and revenues are subject to adjustment as a result of government audits. We reflect any adjustments required by government auditors in our financial statements. Although we have thus far not been required to make any material audit adjustments, adjustments may be required in the future. Our international government contracts normally require collateral in the form of bonds, letters of credit or similar credit 11 Table of Contents enhancements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining these types of credit enhancements or that the credit enhancements available will be affordable in the future. Our contracts that are funded by the U.S. Government or foreign governments are subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. Government supply contracts generally are awarded to us through a formal competitive bidding process in which we may have many competitors. Upon expiration, government supply contracts may be subject, once again, to the competitive bidding process. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our contracts with domestic or foreign government agencies are subject to competition and are awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, financial capability, experience and price. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected to the extent that government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, new government contract awards also are subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competition or evaluation process, the award of a contract to a competitor, or the re-opening of the competitive bidding process. We consider bid protests to be a customary element in the process of procuring government contracts. Other characteristics of the government contract market that may affect our operating results include the complexity of designs, the difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and the speed with which product lines become obsolete due to technological advances and other factors characteristic of the market. Our earnings may vary materially on some contracts depending upon the types of government long-term contracts undertaken, the costs incurred in their performance, and the achievement of other performance objectives. Our commercial contracts are subject to competition and strict performance and other requirements. Although significant portions of our revenues are generated from the sale of our services and products in commercial markets, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in these markets. Most of our commercial contracts contain fixed pricing which subjects us to substantial risks relating to unexpected cost increases and other factors outside of our control. We may fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract. Any of these failures may reduce our profit or cause a loss under our commercial contracts. In connection with certain commercial contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit, or similar credit enhancements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining these types of instruments or that these types of instruments, if available, will be affordable in the future. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must agree to meet strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. If we fail to meet these performance obligations and milestones, the other party may terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities, which constitute a significant portion of our business. Our international business activities expose us to a variety of risks. Our international business accounted for approximately 52% of our sales in fiscal 2009 and 33% of our sales in fiscal 2008. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of our overall business in the foreseeable future. Our international business experiences many of the same risks our domestic business encounters as well as additional risks such as: • the effects of terrorism; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • a longer and more complicated collections cycle; 12 Table of Contents • a high degree of corruption in some countries; • a general decline in the strength of the global economy; • the effect of foreign military or political conflicts and turmoil; • U.S. foreign policy decisions; • the extent, if any, of anti-American sentiment; • changes in foreign governmental trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; • export controls; • political and economic instability; and • travel restrictions. The majority of our contracts which originate from ETC-Southampton are denominated in U.S. dollars. Except for intercompany work, and contracts with U.S. based companies, most of our contracts which originate from ETC-PZL are in Polish zlotys. Since most of our production and administrative costs are based in U.S. dollars, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar currency relative to other international currencies may make our pricing un-competitive when compared to foreign local in-country competitors. Although we may be exposed to currency fluctuations, we are not engaged in any material foreign currency hedging activities to offset this risk. With respect to currency risk, where we have a large on-going contract which is denominated in a foreign currency, we often establish local in-country bank accounts and fund in-country expenses in the local currency, thus creating a “natural” currency hedge for a portion of the contract. Our international transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from stringent contractual terms and conditions and widely differing legal systems, banking requirements, customs and standards in foreign countries. In addition, our international sales often include sales to various foreign government armed forces, with many of the same inherent risks associated with U.S. government sales discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Legislative actions, higher director and officer insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to cause our general and administrative expenses to increase and impact our future financial condition and results of operations. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we have been required to strengthen our internal controls, hire additional personnel and retain additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which have caused and will continue to cause our general and administrative costs to increase. Although we have not experienced any director and officer liability claims, these premiums are a significant part of our business insurance costs and may increase as a result of the (i) high claims rates insurers have experienced with other companies over the past years, (ii) the high stock ownership position of some of our non-affiliated shareholders, and (iii) our reduced operating performance. All of these increased costs have had and will continue to have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our operations could be hurt by terrorist attacks, war and other activities or occurrences that make air travel difficult or reduce the willingness of our commercial airline customers to purchase our simulation products. As stated above, international sales accounted for 52% and 33% of our revenues for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. In the event terrorist attacks, wars or other activities or occurrences make air travel difficult, create hazards for our employees, or reduce the demand or willingness of our customers to purchase our commercial simulation products, our revenue may decline. 13 Table of Contents Geo-political and other factors may also limit or restrict our employees’ ability to gain entrance to foreign locations to sell products or perform contract services. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings tend to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: • our ability to finance our operations; • the number, size and scope of our projects; • the mix of contracts (POC versus other); • equipment purchases and other expenditures required for our business; • the number of bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • delays in sales bookings or production; • the level of employee productivity; • the adequacy of our provisions for receivable, inventory and other losses; • the accuracy of our estimate of resources required to complete ongoing projects; and • general economic conditions. Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets or schedules and other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of our investors in a particular period. In this event, the price of our common stock may decline. Our officers and directors own a significant amount of our common stock which permits them to exert significant influence over the direction of our business and affairs. As of May 1, 2009, our directors and executive officers own and could vote an aggregate of approximately 58.1% on a fully converted basis of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our directors and executive officers, if they act together, will be able to exert significant control over the direction of our business and affairs. 