Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual operating results to be materially different from those expressed or implied in any of our public announcements or filings, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 24, 2012. These risks and uncertainties include the following items, which do not represent a comprehensive list of all the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the Over-the-Counter – OTCQB Market Tier which may limit purchase and sale of our Common Stock. Our Common Stock is quoted over-the-counter on the OTCQB Market Tier (“OTCQB”). Certain investors, for example institutional investors, have policies and regulations that may not allow investment in our Common Stock because it is quoted on the OTCQB. This may limit trading volume and affect the price of our Common Stock. In general, the market price of securities of thinly traded public companies has historically faced significant volatility. Our Common Stock does not experience a significant average daily trading volume. Accordingly, if one shareholder either elects to purchase or sell a block of our Common Stock, it may have a significant effect on the current trading price. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Factors that have influenced the trading prices for our Common Stock include, but are not limited to, the following: · actual or anticipated operating results; · market conditions in the industries in which we compete; · announcements by competitors; · results of litigation; · regulatory actions; and · general economic conditions. Any of the above factors would likely affect the market price of our Common Stock. During the current and prior fiscal years, our core business, ATS, was awarded three large multi-year contracts from the U.S. Department of Defense, and a large multi-year contract with a major international defense agency. Contracts such as these are infrequent and inconsistent. As of February 24, 2012, $39.0 million of our backlog was for three contracts awarded under BRAC Act funds, which have a specific focus, purpose, and funding allocation. Although possible, it should not be assumed that additional awards will be obtained under the BRAC Act, nor that additional funding under the BRAC Act will be available. Additionally, $9.8 million of our backlog represented one large international contract. Given the current political and economic environment, and the extremely competitive nature of U.S. and international defense contracts, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining additional major contracts, which would result in a negative impact on our financial performance. We have spent significant funds over the prior years to develop advanced technologies to support the defense simulator industry and our cost of software, plant assets, and operating expenses is relatively high in comparison to our revenue base. Also, the cost of preparing these complicated proposals is significant. Depending on the size and nature of the technical proposal, preparation costs (including pre-engineering costs) can be in the hundreds of thousands of dollars; consequently, our financial performance is highly dependent upon obtaining these contracts. There is a risk of an unfavorable outcome in litigation and resulting negative financial impact on our cash flow and operating results. Our business, which involves primarily large long-term contracts for the manufacture of unique equipment, is subject to risks related to litigation. It is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have a material adverse effect on the results of the Company’s operations, cash flows, or financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Our sources of revenues are not consistent; they tend to be concentrated within a few contracts with a few customers and in a particular mix. It cannot be assumed that any of these contracts, customers, or mix will recur in future years. In any given fiscal year, a substantial portion of our revenues is typically derived from a small number of contracts and customers. In fiscal 2012, sales to three customers totaling $37.8 million represented 57.0% of net sales; in fiscal 2011, sales to three customers totaling $38.1 million represented 68.8% of net sales. Additionally, two customers represented a total of $47.2 million, or 63.4%, of ETC’s total backlog of $74.5 million at February 24, 2012. Comparable figures at February 25, 2011 were two customers representing a total of $80.2 million, or 72.5%, of ETC’s total backlog of $110.6 million. During fiscal 2012, the mix in fiscal year-end backlog began to shift away from U.S. Government contracts, as progress is made against our U.S. Government contracts. At February 24, 2012, U.S. Government contracts constituted 52.8% of the total backlog compared with February 25, 2011, when U.S. Government contracts constituted 59.6% of the total backlog. It is also important to note that almost the entire U.S. Government backlog at February 24, 2012 and February 25, 2011 reflected contracts awarded under funding related to the BRAC Act. It should not be assumed that significant U.S. Government contracts of this magnitude would necessarily be awarded in the near future. Our debt is concentrated and under guarantee arrangements with H. F. Lenfest. In addition to cash flow from operations, a significant portion of our cash needs are supplied under bank agreements guaranteed personally by H.F. Lenfest, a major shareholder and member of our Board of Directors. Mr. Lenfest, who is eighty-two (82) years of age, has provided funding in multiple arrangements and at multiple times since 2003. Should these personal guarantees no longer be available, this event might cause a disruption of available funds under our various financing arrangements. Additionally, we have a significant number of guarantees by Mr. Lenfest, who has a substantial investment in the Company’s Preferred Stock. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future additional sources of cash available to us to service our required payments. Our ability to make debt payments depends on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Based upon our current level of operations, anticipated growth, and cash on hand, we believe future availability under the PNC Bank line of credit will be adequate to meet our future obligations through at least September 2013; however, given that our bank debt is personally guaranteed by Mr. Lenfest and that all of our arrangements and agreements are with him as an individual, there can be no assurance that, should our business not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our debts or to make necessary capital expenditures, we will be successful in negotiating new financial arrangements with Mr. Lenfest or any other party, or that any refinancing of debt would be available and on commercially reasonable terms. See the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of the Annual Report to Shareholders attached hereto as Exhibit 13 and incorporated herein by reference. We need to attain validation from the U.S. defense agencies of our Authentic Tactical Fighting Systems (ATFS) technology. A challenge for our ATFS technology has been marketing this technology to the world’s defense agencies. This is a new technology that is contrary to the conventional training belief that tactical flight and combat skills can only be learned by flying an actual aircraft. Although we believe that we are making significant progress toward convincing decision-makers that flight training (with the actual physiological effects of flight) can be provided in a ground-based simulator, at this point we cannot be certain that we will be able to overcome conventional thinking on training, nor achieve an acceptable level of validation with respect to the applicability and efficacy of our ATFS technology. Our operations involve rapidly evolving products and technological change. The pace of technological change impacts products in our Aerospace segment. Rapidly changing technology requires us to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Technology development is only partially funded through enhancements included in customer orders. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development, nor that this development will be customer-funded in the same ratio going forward. Reinvestment of operating funds and profits in an amount greater than currently earned may be required. Even so, we cannot be assured that we will successfully identify new opportunities and continue to have the financial resources required to develop new products profitably. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. 11 Table of Contents Long term contracts under percentage of completion (“POC”) accounting comprise a significant portion of our fiscal 2012 revenues and our backlog at February 24, 2012. Delays in the delivery of our products may prevent us from invoicing our costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. At February 24, 2012, contracts accounted for under POC accounting comprised $65.0 million, or 87.3%, of our total backlog. Additionally, contracts under POC revenue recognition method generated $51.0 million or 77.0% of our total revenues. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America pertaining to long-term contracts under the POC accounting method, we record, due to timing differences, an asset for our costs and estimated earnings that exceed the amount we are able to bill our customers on uncompleted contracts. At February 24, 2012, this asset totaled $18.8 million. Although a significant portion of these costs are related to U.S. Government contracts, which have progress billing terms, under progress billing procedures, we can recover only a portion of these costs before completion of the contract. Additionally, we cannot bill additional amounts unless and until we make satisfactory progress in the production, delivery, and integration of our products. Typically, there will be a time lag ranging from six to twenty-four months between performance and associated costs for these types of projects, and billing and collection of all contract payments. Our failure to either execute on schedule or meet milestones by delivering and integrating our products in a timely manner may impact our ability to collect final payments on these contracts, which could severely impact our cash flow. For an explanation of POC accounting, see the section “Critical Accounting Policies” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report to Shareholders attached hereto as Exhibit 13 and incorporated herein by reference. In the event we suffer production delays, we may be required to pay certain customers substantial liquidated damages and other penalties. The variety and complexity of our high technology product lines requires us to deal with a multitude of suppliers and subcontractors. Some of the parts we purchase are highly specialized. Planning production, optimizing inventory levels, and meeting delivery schedules all require high coordination, and at times, may have conflicting goals. Most of our large ATS and software products must be custom designed and manufactured, which is not only complicated and expensive, but can also require long periods of time to accomplish. Slight errors in design, planning, and managing production, inventory levels, delivery schedules, or manufacturing can result in unsatisfactory products that may not be correctable. If we are unable to meet our delivery schedules, we may be subject to penalties or liquidated damages, which may have an adverse impact on our business. Management uses its best judgment to estimate the cost to perform the work and the price we will eventually be paid on our long-term contracts. While we believe the cost and price estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, future events could result in either favorable or unfavorable adjustments to those estimates. Our fixed-price and cost-reimbursement contracts may commit us to unfavorable terms. Historically, we have provided our products and services primarily through fixed-price contracts. Under a fixed-price contract, we agree to perform the scope of work required by the contract for a predetermined contract price. Although a fixed-price contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain contract losses; therefore, unless there are customer-requested changes in scope or other changes in specifications that are reimbursable, we fully absorb cost overruns on fixed-price contracts, which reduces our profit margin on the contract. These cost overruns may result in us recognizing a loss on a contract. A further risk associated with fixed-price contracts is the difficulty of estimating sales and costs that are related to performance in accordance with contract specifications. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce our profitability and may cause us to incur a loss on the project. In connection with certain commercial contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit, or similar credit enhancements. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining these types of instruments or that these types of instruments, if available, will be affordable in the future. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must satisfy strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. If we fail to meet these performance obligations and milestones, the other party may terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us that could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. Government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. In addition, current U.S. Government budgetary constraints could lead to changes in the procurement environment. If such changes occur, our costs of complying with procurement requirements could increase and reduce our margins. 12 Table of Contents Depending on the product, customer, location, and the application or use, some of our ATS products require an export approval from the U.S. Commerce or State Department. Certain international letters of credit for contracts that include controlled equipment may also include the requirement for us to obtain export approvals before applying for payments. We have an Export License Compliance Program that covers all key aspects of the ITAR. Although most export approvals are readily obtainable in a reasonable timeframe, depending on the equipment and customer, some of our international contracts that include equipment require the issuance of an export approval as a force majeure event so that the Company can avoid any contract penalties or liquidated damages. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications, or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The termination of a government contract or relationship could also, under certain circumstances, result in our suspension or debarment from future government contracting for a period of time, and this could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. As a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. Government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. The DCAA also reviews the contractor’s adequacy of and compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit contains a significant adverse finding, we could be subject to penalties and fines and contract termination, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The termination of a government contract or relationship could also, under certain circumstances, result in our suspension or debarment from future government contracting for a period of time, and this could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. Presently, the Company is not aware of any circumstances that could result in a significant adverse finding by the DCAA. Our contracts that are funded by the U.S. Government or foreign governments are subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. Government supply contracts are generally awarded to us through a competitive bidding process in which we may be competing with many other qualified bidders. Upon expiration, government supply contracts may be subject, once again, to the competitive bidding process. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of technical merit, personnel qualifications, financial capability, experience, and price. In addition, new government contract awards are also subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competitive bidding process, the evaluation process, or the award of the contract. Other characteristics of the government contract market that may affect our operating results include the complexity of designs, and the difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Our earnings may vary materially on some contracts depending upon the types of government long-term contracts undertaken, the costs incurred in their performance, and the achievement of other performance objectives. Our international business is subject to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements, and other risks. Our international business exposes us to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements, and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. These risks differ from, and in most cases, are greater than those associated with our domestic business. In addition, our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. An example is the recent political turmoil in numerous countries in the Middle East region, which has historically been a strong market for ETC’s ATS business unit. Our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, regional, and local economic and political factors, as well as U.S. foreign policy. Our international sales are subject to U.S. laws, regulations, and policies, which include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the ITAR, and other export laws and regulations. They are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices that may differ from U.S. Government regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency (which we mitigate by denominating our contracts in U.S. dollars when possible), geo-political, and economic risks. Our international contracts may include requirements on specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements, or financial support obligations, known as offsets, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners, and suppliers in connection with international programs. As a result of these factors, we could experience award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Legislative actions resulting in higher compliance costs are likely to adversely affect our future consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Compliance with laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and new regulations enacted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) are resulting in increased compliance costs. We, like all other public companies, are incurring expenses and allocating additional human resources to ensure compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are a smaller reporting company, and have completed the process of documenting our systems of internal control and have evaluated our systems of internal control. Beginning with the fiscal year ended February 23, 2007, we have been required to assess continuously our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect to continue to devote the necessary resources, including internal and external resources, to support our assessment. In addition, the SEC is expected to implement a number of new rules in fiscal 2013 and beyond to implement the Dodd-Frank Act. Compliance with these evolving standards will result in increased general and administrative expenses and may cause a diversion of human resources from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings tend to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: · the number, size, and scope of our projects; · the mix of contracts (POC versus other); · our ability to finance our operations; · the number of bid and proposal efforts undertaken; · delays in sales bookings or production; · the level of employee productivity; · the adequacy of our provisions for receivable, inventory, and other losses; · the accuracy of our estimate of resources required to complete ongoing projects; and · general economic conditions. Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets, schedules, or other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of our investors in a particular period. Our directors own a significant amount of our Common Stock which permits them to exert significant influence over the direction of our business and affairs. As of June 15, 2012, our directors own and could vote an aggregate of approximately 74.8% of our outstanding Common Stock on a fully converted basis; moreover, one director, H.F. Lenfest, owns approximately 66.8% of our outstanding Common Stock on a fully converted basis. Accordingly, our directors, if they elect to act, are able to exert significant control over the direction of our business and affairs. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel, and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales, and management personnel for our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. The loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel, could seriously harm our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents The Independent Internal Investigation by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors with respect to potential non-compliant accounting practices at a foreign subsidiary has caused us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In December 2011, we learned of potential non-compliant accounting practices at a foreign subsidiary, relating to the manner in which internal personnel costs were allocated to certain contracts. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors initiated an independent internal investigation to determine the extent and materiality of the potential non-compliance with respect to the Company’s financial reporting for fiscal 2012, and the investigation has now been completed. Based on the information obtained during the course of the investigation, including a forensic audit of selected electronically stored information, and interviews with certain employees and management of the foreign subsidiary, the Audit Committee’s independent counsel did not find a sufficient basis from which to conclude that the reallocation of personnel costs was due to an illegitimate purpose or motive. However, it was noted that reallocations of time entries among contracts had occurred and that the subsidiary did not have a uniform centralized system for recording personnel time and retaining source data, thereby creating a situation where there was insufficient maintenance of records that reflect the transactions in reasonable detail so as to permit the timely preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, the corporate governance structure of the foreign subsidiary, which vested significant control of the subsidiary in the subsidiary’s management board, did not allow for prompt and effective intervention by the Company or its Board and significantly complicated the investigation. We have incurred substantial costs and diverted management resources in connection with the independent internal investigation, and the investigation itself caused us to fail to file a timely Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. In addition, the remediation of the material weakness (set forth below in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures) will require us to incur additional costs and to divert management resources in the upcoming fiscal quarters, which may have a negative impact on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 