Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual operating results and developments to be materially different from those expressed or implied in any of our public announcements or filings including this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 24, 2006. These risks and uncertainties include the following items. This list is not inclusive of all the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. We have major litigation and claims in process and these require a significant amount of management time and effort. Additionally, legal costs are a major portion of our general and administrative spending, thus redirecting funds from other operating activities. Legal and claims costs in fiscal 2006 were $1.5 million or 16% of total general and administrative spending. It is expected that this spending level will increase in fiscal 2007 as open litigation nears the trial stage. Please see Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) for further information on our litigation. There is a risk of an unfavorable outcome in litigation and resulting potential negative financial impact on our operating results. In one of the cases of commercial litigation currently in progress, we have been counter-sued for an amount in excess of $65 million. While we believe we have valid defenses to each of the counterclaims and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these counterclaims, an unfavorable outcome could result in an adverse material effect on our financial position. With respect to the claim against the U.S. government, recoveries have usually exceeded the carrying value of claims. However, these claims require significant management time and effort and normally take multiple years to resolve. Also, there is no assurance that we will always have positive experience with regard to recoveries for our contract claims, whether at the carrying values of the claims or amounts in excess of the carrying values of the claims. Our sources of revenues are not consistent; in any given fiscal year a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers that may not be recurring customers in future years. In any given fiscal year, a substantial portion of our revenues is typically derived from a small number of customers. For example, in fiscal 2006 we generated approximately 30% of our revenues from sales to two customers, L-3 Communications and the Pakistan Air Force. In fiscal 2005, we generated approximately 36% of our revenues from sales to four customers, the Royal Malaysian Air Force, the United Kingdom Ministry of Defense, the Army Corp of Engineers, and a domestic customer. In fiscal 2004, we generated approximately 22% of our revenues from sales to two customers, the Royal Malaysian Air Force and the United Kingdom Ministry of Defense. We cannot be certain that our most significant customers will continue to order our products and services at the same level at which they have ordered them in the past. Due to the expensive nature and highly specialized market for our products and services, if any of these customers stops purchasing our products and services and we are unable to identify new customers in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. 7 Back to Contents Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial resources and prevent us from satisfying our debt service obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Additionally, we will have to pay a 6% dividend payment on the $3,000,000 of preferred stock which we issued to Mr. Lenfest on April 7, 2006. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future borrowings available to us, sufficient to pay our debt. During fiscal 2006, we experienced a negative cash flow of $8.5 million. At May 12, 2006, our total indebtedness was approximately $16.1 million, we had $3,000,000 of outstanding preferred stock, and our total stockholders’ equity was approximately $17.6 million. Our ability to make debt payments depends on future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Based upon our current level of operations and anticipated growth, we believe that cash on hand and borrowings under our equity line agreement with H.F. Lenfest will be adequate to meet our financial needs. There can be no assurance, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our debts or to make necessary capital expenditures, or that any refinancing of debt would be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences including: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or unavailable; • a portion of cash flow will be used to pay interest expense, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; • a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or an increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to reduce or modify our operations; • our significant debt may make us more leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • our significant debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or in the economy generally; • some of our existing debt contains financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to borrow additional funds, acquire and dispose of assets, and pay cash dividends; and • our subordinated debt bears a relatively high interest rate, reflecting the unsecured nature and correspondingly higher risk associated with this type of financing. This results in higher interest expense and use of cash. • Although currently none of our debt bears interest at rates that vary with the prime rate of interest, it is expected that any additional debt which we might incur would carry a floating rate. If this were the case, any increases in the applicable prime rate of interest would reduce our earnings. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Annual Report to Stockholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not currently have a bank facility which can be used to borrow funds for operating purposes. Additionally, covenants and restrictions in our credit facility, and any additional changes in the facility amount or structure, could limit our ability to take certain actions and fund our operations. On May 19, 2006 we signed an amendment to our bank agreement with PNC Bank, National Association extending the termination date to June 30, 2006. This $5,000,000 facility is restricted to use for issuing letters of credit. As of May 12, 2006, we had used approximately $2,900,000 million of this facility for international letters of credit. We may need to obtain additional sources of capital in order to continue growing and operating our business. This capital may be difficult to obtain and the cost of this additional capital is likely to be relatively high. Our subordinated debt agreement with Mr. Lenfest contains significant financial and operating covenants that limit the discretion of our management with respect to certain business matters. These covenants include, among others, restrictions on our ability to: • declare or pay dividends or any other distributions to our securities holders; • redeem or repurchase capital stock; • incur certain additional debt; 8 Back to Contents • place liens on our assets; • make certain payments and investments; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; and • acquire or be acquired by other entities. We must also meet certain financial ratios and tests under our agreement. If we do not comply with the obligations set forth in the agreement, it could result in an event of default, and possibly the acceleration of the related debt. Negative operating results would impact our future compliance with these covenants and could adversely affect our business. Our liquidity and capitalization improved subsequent to fiscal year end when we signed an equity line agreement with H.F. Lenfest, a Director, significant shareholder and holder of our subordinated debt. Under certain conditions, we will have access to up to $15 million in cash to support operations. However, given our low beginning sales backlog and ongoing difficulty in obtaining new contracts, we may need to obtain additional sources of capital in order to continue growing and operating our business. Because we have established businesses in many markets, significant fixed assets including a building, and other business assets which can be used for security, we believe that we will be able to locate such additional sources of capital, although there is no assuredness that we will be successful in this endeavor. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Annual Report to Stockholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our operations involve rapidly evolving products and technological change. The rapid change of technology is a key feature of all of the industries in which our businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through both customer-funded and internally funded research and development, and we expect this practice will continue to be required in the future. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development nor that this development will be customer-funded in the same ratio going forward. Reinvestment of operating funds and profits in an amount greater than currently earned may be required. Even so, we cannot assure you that we will successfully identify new opportunities and continue to have the financial resources required to develop new products profitably. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. Delays in the delivery of our products may prevent us from invoicing our costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for long-term contracts, we record an asset for our costs and estimated earnings that exceed the amount we are able to bill our customers on uncompleted contracts. At February 24, 2006, $3.2 million or 93% of our costs and estimated earnings that exceeded our billings on uncompleted contracts related to contracts with two different customers. We are not able to bill these amounts unless we meet certain contractual milestones related to the production, delivery and integration of our products. Normally there will be a lag ranging from 24 to 36 months between performance and associated costs for these types of projects and billing and collection of payments. Our failure to meet these milestones by delivering and integrating our products in a timely manner may impact our ability to recover our costs and estimated earnings that exceeded our billings on uncompleted contracts, which could severely impact our cash flow. In the event we suffer production delays, we may be required to pay certain customers substantial liquidated damages and other penalties. The variety and complexity of our high technology product lines require us to deal with suppliers and subcontractors supplying highly specialized parts, operating highly sophisticated equipment and performing highly technical calculations. The processes of planning and managing production, inventory levels and delivery schedules are also highly complex and specialized. Many of our products must be custom designed and manufactured, which is not only complicated and expensive, but can also require long periods of time to accomplish. Slight errors in design, planning and managing production, inventory levels, delivery schedules, or manufacturing can result in unsatisfactory products that may not be correctable. If we are unable to meet our delivery schedules, we may be subject to penalties, including liquidated damages that are included in some of our customer contracts. While our actual losses have been minimal, we may incur substantial liquidated damages in the future in connection with product delays. 9 Back to Contents If the commercial simulation business conducted by our Aircrew Training Systems Segment declines, our sales will decrease. We have no assurance that our commercial simulation business will continue to succeed. Although our commercial simulation business was minimal in fiscal 2006, this segment historically contributes to our gross revenues in each fiscal year. This business is subject to many risks including: • the uncertainty of economic conditions; • increased competition; • changes in technology; and • the need for timely performance by subcontractors located throughout the world on contracts for which we are the prime contractor. If we do not adequately address these risks, then our commercial simulation business may decline which will adversely affect our business. Our fixed-price and cost-reimbursable contracts may commit us to unfavorable terms. We provide our products and services primarily through fixed-price or cost-reimbursable contracts. Fixed-price contracts provided approximately 94% of our sales for the fiscal year ended February 24, 2006. Under a fixed-price contract, we agree to perform the scope of work required by the contract for a predetermined contract price. Although a fixed-price contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract. Therefore, unless there are customer-requested changes in scope or other changes in specifications which are reimbursable, we fully absorb cost overruns on fixed-price contracts and this reduces our profit margin on the contract. These cost overruns may result in us recognizing a loss on the contract. A further risk associated with fixed-price contracts is the difficulty of estimating sales and costs that are related to performance in accordance with contract specifications. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce our profitability or cause a loss. We did not have any sales for cost-reimbursable contracts for the fiscal year ended February 24, 2006. On a cost-reimbursable contract, we are paid up to predetermined funding levels determined by our customers on allowable incurred costs and generally a fee representing a profit on those costs, which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract’s pricing arrangement. Therefore, on a cost-reimbursable contract we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns. U.S. Government regulations require that we notify our customer of any cost overruns or under runs on a cost-reimbursable contract on a timely basis. Should we be awarded any cost-reimbursable contracts in the future and incur costs in excess of the funding limitation specified in the cost-reimbursable contracts, we may not be able to recover those cost overruns. Cost estimates used to account for contracts under the percentage of completion method may vary over time and impact future performance under these contracts. We record sales and profits on a significant portion of our contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This means that we calculate a ratio of costs incurred to costs expected to be incurred for each fixed-price job and then multiply that same ratio by the fixed-price contract value to determine total revenue to be recognized to date for each fixed-price job. As a result, contract price and cost estimates on fixed-price contracts are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments are reflected in income in the period when the estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a loss, reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material and have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we believe that adequate provisions for losses for our fixed-prices contracts are recorded in our financial statements as required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we cannot assure you that our contract loss provisions, which are based on estimates, will be adequate to cover all actual future losses. Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. government or foreign governments are subject to government regulations and audits and other requirements. Government contracts require compliance with various contract provisions and procurement regulations. The adoption of new or modified procurement regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or increase the costs of competing for or performing government contracts. If we violate any of these regulations, then we may be subject to termination of these contracts, imposition of fines or exclusion from government contracting and government-approved subcontracting for some specific time period. In addition, our contract costs and revenues are subject to adjustment as a result of audits by government auditors. We reflect any adjustments required by government auditors in our financial statements. Although we have thus far not been required to make any material audit adjustments, adjustments may be required in the future. In connection with our government contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit or similar credit enhancements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining these types of credit enhancements or that the credit enhancements available will be affordable in the future. 10 Back to Contents Our contracts that are funded by the U.S. government or foreign governments are subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. Government contracts generally are awarded to us through a formal competitive bidding process in which we may have many competitors. Upon expiration, government contracts may be subject, once again, to the competitive bidding process. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our contracts with domestic or foreign government agencies are subject to competition and are awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, experience and price. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected to the extent that government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, new government contract awards also are subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competition or evaluation process, the award of a contract to a competitor, or the re-opening of the competitive bidding process. We consider bid protests to be a customary element in the process of procuring government contracts. Other characteristics of the government contract market that may affect our operating results include the complexity of designs, the difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and the speed with which product lines become obsolete due to technological advances and other factors characteristic of the market. Our earnings may vary materially on some contracts depending upon the types of government long-term contracts undertaken, the costs incurred in their performance, and the achievement of other performance objectives. Our commercial contracts are subject to competition and strict performance and other requirements. Although significant portions of our revenues are generated from the sale of our services and products in commercial markets, we cannot assure you that we will continue to compete successfully in these markets. Many of our commercial contracts contain fixed pricing. This subjects us to substantial risks relating to unexpected cost increases and other factors outside of our control. We may fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract. Any of these failures may reduce our profit or cause a loss under our commercial contracts. In addition, a significant portion of our revenues on fixed-price contracts (72% in fiscal 2006) is recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis. This means that we calculate a ratio of costs incurred to costs expected to be incurred for each fixed-price job and then multiply that same ratio by the fixed-price contract value to determine total revenue to be recognized to date for each fixed-price job. As a result, contract price and cost estimates on fixed-price contracts are reviewed periodically as the work progresses, and adjustments are reflected in income in the period when the estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in a loss, reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material and have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In connection with certain commercial contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit, or similar credit enhancements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining these types of credit enhancements or that the credit enhancements available will be affordable in the future. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must agree to meet strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. If we fail to meet these performance obligations and milestones, the other party may terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities, which constitute a significant portion of our business. Our international business activities expose us to a variety of risks. Our international business including that from our foreign subsidiaries, accounted for approximately 53% of our sales in fiscal 2006 and 47% of our sales in fiscal 2005. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of our overall business in the foreseeable future. Our international business experiences many of the same risks our domestic business encounters as well as additional risks such as: • the effects of terrorism; • exchange rate fluctuations; 11 Back to Contents • a longer and more complicated collections cycle; • a high degree of corruption in some countries; • a general decline in the strength of the global economy; • the effect of foreign military or political conflicts and turmoil; • U.S. foreign policy decisions; • the extent, if any, of anti-American sentiment; • changes in foreign governmental trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; • export controls; and • political and economic instability. The majority of our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. Although we may be exposed to currency fluctuations, we are not engaged in any material hedging activities to offset this risk. With respect to currency risk, where we have a contract which is denominated in a foreign currency, we often establish local in-country bank accounts and fund in-country expenses in the local currency, thus creating a “natural” currency hedge for a portion of the contract. Our international transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from stringent contractual terms and conditions and widely differing legal systems, customs and standards in foreign countries. In addition, our international sales often include sales to various foreign government armed forces, with many of the same inherent risks associated with U.S. government sales discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Legislative actions, higher director and officer insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to cause our general and administrative expenses to increase and impact our future financial condition and results of operations. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as changes to the American Stock Exchange listing standards and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we have been required to strengthen our internal controls, hire additional personnel and retail additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which have caused and will continue to cause our general and administrative costs to increase. These and other costs of operating as a public company will continue to be a significant element of our general and administrative costs. Although we have not experienced any director and officer liability claims, insurers have increased and are likely to continue to increase premiums as a result of the (i) high claims rates they have incurred with other companies over the past years (ii) the high stock ownership position of some of our non-affiliated shareholders, and (iii) our reduced operating performance, and so our premiums for our directors’ and officers’ insurance policies are likely to continue to increase. Changes in the accounting rules and auditing standards, including legislative and other proposals to account for employee stock options as a compensation expense among others, could materially increase the expenses that we incur and report under generally accepted accounting principles and adversely affect our operating results. Our fiscal 2006 new contract bookings and fiscal 2007 opening backlog is significantly lower than any comparable fiscal period for the most recent prior periods. Additionally, our sales backlog is not necessarily indicative of revenues that we will actually realize in fiscal year 2006 or at all. Our new contract bookings for fiscal 2006 were approximately $13.7 million as compared to an average of $27.2 million for the last four fiscal years. Our opening backlog for fiscal 2007 is approximately $9.9 million. The opening backlog for fiscal years 2002 through 2005 was in excess of approximately $20 million for each year. Although our open proposal base remains strong, there is no assurance that we will be able to bring a significant amount of these contracts to award status. Additionally, we may not actually generate revenues in fiscal 2007 for all items included in our estimated backlog at the end of our 2006 fiscal year. While we estimate that approximately 94% of this $9.9 million backlog is expected to be completed prior to the end of our 2007 fiscal year, we are not certain that these projects will be completed so that we can record these revenues by such date, or at all. During fiscal 2006, we shipped approximately 82% of our February 25, 2005 backlog. Our backlog includes the total value of all contracts less the revenue earned on those contracts through the measurement date. Many of our government contracts are multi-year contracts and contracts with option years, and portions of these contracts are carried forward from one year to the next as part of our backlog. Certain of our large contracts provide that we will not receive payment until the services under those contracts are requested and performed. We cannot assure that cancellations or adjustments in the terms of these contracts might not occur. 12 Back to Contents Our operations could be hurt by terrorist attacks, war, disease and other activities or occurrences that make air travel difficult or reduce the willingness of our commercial airline customers to purchase our simulation products. The demand for our various commercial simulation products and services is heavily dependent upon new orders from our commercial airline customers. In the event terrorist attacks, war, disease or other activities or occurrences make air travel difficult or reduce the demand or willingness of our customers to purchase our commercial simulation products, our revenue may decline. Geo-political and other factors may also limit or restrict our employees’ ability to gain entrance to foreign locations to sell products or perform contract services. There is limited trading activity in our common stock which could make it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange. Our average daily trading volume on the American Stock Exchange during fiscal 2006 was 4,362 shares. This limited trading activity may make it more difficult for investors to sell larger blocks of our common stock at prevailing prices as there are generally a small number of participants in the market for our common stock and such sales may lower the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of securities of thinly traded public companies has historically faced significant volatility. Although our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange, it does not experience a significant average daily trading volume. Accordingly, if one stockholder elects to either purchase or sell a block of our common stock, it may have a significant effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors that have influenced trading prices will vary from period to period, including: • actual or anticipated operating results; • changes in estimates by analysts; • market conditions in the industry; • announcements by competitors; • results of litigation; • regulatory actions; and • general economic conditions. Any of these events would likely affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: • the number, size and scope of our projects; • equipment purchases and other expenditures required for our business; • the number of bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • delays in sales or production; • the level of employee productivity; • the adequacy of our provisions for losses; • the accuracy of our estimate of resources required to complete ongoing projects; and • general economic conditions. Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets or schedules and other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in a particular period. In this event, the price of our common stock may decline. 13 Back to Contents Our officers and directors own a significant amount of our common stock which permits them to exert significant influence over the direction of our business and affairs. As of May 11, 2006, our directors and executive officers own an aggregate of approximately 44.8% on a fully converted basis of our outstanding common stock. Given our equity line agreement with H.F. Lenfest and the lack of a bank facility, it is expected that this percentage will increase as we request additional funds and issue additional preferred stock under this agreement. Accordingly, these persons, if they act together, will be able to exert control over the direction of our business and affairs. 