Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual operating results and developments to be materially different from those expressed or implied in any of our public announcements or filings including this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 29, 2008. These risks and uncertainties include the following items. This list is not inclusive of all the risks and uncertainties associated with our business. If we are not taken private through the sale transaction proposed by H. F. Lenfest, we will continue to incur the significant costs associated with being a public company and we may need to find additional sources of capital to support our business. In February 2008, H. F. Lenfest, a member of our Board of Directors and a significant shareholder (“Lenfest”), offered to purchase all of the outstanding shares of our common stock which he did not own. In connection with the offer, the Board of Directors formed a committee comprised of independent directors to evaluate the transaction and make a recommendation to the Board of Directors. The transaction committee has engaged a financial advisor to assist the transaction committee in evaluating the proposal. There can be no assurance that a final agreement will be reached with Lenfest or that, if a final agreement is reached, that we will receive all of the necessary approvals to complete the transaction. If we do not complete the transaction, we will continue to incur the significant costs associated with being a public company and we may need to find additional sources of capital to support our business if Lenfest is unwilling to do so. We are not in compliance with the listing standards of the American Stock Exchange and may be subject to delisting if we are unable to regain compliance with the applicable listing standards. Effective with the filing of this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, we have regained compliance with certain listing standards of the American Stock Exchange. We had been out of compliance with the AMEX listing standards as a result of our failure to file certain reports with the SEC. However, as of February 29, 2008, our net equity totaled less than $6 million. Accordingly, we are not in compliance with Section 1003 of the AMEX Company Guide, which requires listed companies including ETC to have a minimum net equity of $6 million since we have had losses from operations of in our five most recent fiscal years. We are considering what actions we can take, if any, to regain compliance with this listing standard. If we are unable to meet the net equity requirements, it is possible AMEX may initiate delisting proceedings and our common stock may be delisted from trading on the American Stock Exchange. If it were to be delisted, our common stock would be quoted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board if we are current with our SEC reporting obligations and meet the standards for trading on the Over-The-Counter-Bulletin-Board. Otherwise, it is expected that our common stock would be quoted on the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets will likely have the effect of making purchases and sales more difficult as well as decrease the price of our common stock. If we cannot identify sufficient funds to operate our business, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 6 Since 2003, Lenfest has provided significant funds in the form of subordinated debt, preferred stock, promissory notes, commitments and guarantees which we have used to operate our business. Lenfest has also personally guaranteed our obligations to our commercial lender and has agreed to fund all requests for funds to support our operations through June 30, 2009, on terms and conditions to be mutually agreed upon, provided that we may not request more than $10 million in financing. Lenfest has agreed, if required, to guarantee our performance under certain contracts. If Lenfest is unable or unwilling to fund our operations and/or guarantee other obligations of ours and we were unable to identify a suitable funding source to replace the financing provided by Lenfest, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We continue to have major litigation and claims in process and these require a significant amount of management time and effort. Additionally, legal costs are a major portion of our general and administrative spending, thus redirecting funds from other operating activities. During fiscal 2008, we settled our outstanding litigation with the U.S. Navy and continued our litigation with Disney. Legal and claims costs in fiscal 2008 were approximately $5.2 million or 34% of total general and administrative spending and 23% of sales. In addition to the actual costs of litigation, including the $3.55 million paid by us to settle the U. S. Navy matter (See Note 1 — Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), members of management have devoted, and will continue to devote, significant time and effort to these issues. See Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) for further information on our litigation. There is a risk of an unfavorable outcome in litigation and resulting negative financial impact on our operating results. During fiscal 2008, we agreed to forgo our recorded $3.4 claim receivable and pay $3.55 million to settle our dispute with the U.S. Navy. Also, in our Disney litigation, we have been counter-sued for an amount in excess of $65 million. While we believe we have valid defenses to Disney’s counterclaims and intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these counterclaims, an unfavorable outcome would result in a material adverse effect on our financial position. Our sources of revenues are not consistent; in any given fiscal year a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers that may not be recurring customers in future years. In any given fiscal year, a substantial portion of our revenues is typically derived from a small number of customers. In fiscal 2008, one customer represented approximately 17% of total sales. In fiscal 2007, we generated approximately 19% of our revenues from sales to one customer. Two customers accounted for 51% of our sales backlog at February 29, 2008. We cannot be certain that our most significant customers at any point in time will continue to order our products and services at the same level at which they have ordered them in the past. Due to the expensive nature and highly specialized market for our products and services, if any of these customers stops purchasing our products and services and we are unable to identify new customers in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. Our significant debt could adversely affect our financial resources and prevent us from satisfying our debt service obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future borrowings available to us, sufficient to pay our debt. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we experienced negative cash flows from operations of approximately $3.5 million and $7.0 million, respectively. At May 9, 2008, our total long-term debt was $19.6 million. Our ability to make debt payments depends on future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Based upon our current level of operations and anticipated growth, we believe that cash on hand, future availability under the PNC line of credit and the commitment from Lenfest to fund ETC’s operations, will be adequate to meet our future obligations through at least June 30, 2009. There can be no assurance, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our debts or to make necessary capital expenditures, that we will be successful in negotiating new financial arrangements, or that any refinancing of debt would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences including: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or unavailable; • a portion of cash flow may be required to pay interest expense, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; • a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or an increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to reduce or modify our operations; • our significant debt may make us more leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • our significant debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or in the economy generally; • some of our existing debt contains financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to borrow additional funds, acquire and dispose of assets, and pay cash dividends; • our subordinated debt bears a relatively high interest rate, reflecting the unsecured nature and correspondingly higher risk associated with this type of financing. This results in higher interest expense and potential use of cash; and 7 • currently our debt bears interest rates which are fixed for short periods of time. However, interest rates on this debt are subject to adjustment at various times based on market conditions and thus will vary with the prime rate of interest. Additionally, it is expected that any additional debt which we might incur would carry a floating rate. If this were the case, any increases in the applicable prime rate of interest would reduce our earnings. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of the Annual Report to Stockholders attached as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have introduced a new business model in one of our divisions. If customers do not purchase these services from us, our business will suffer. In a major re-engineering of our aeromedical business, we have shifted our business model from primarily relying on producing aeromedical products to a combination of equipment contracts and providing both tactical combat flight training and G-force instruction. In fiscal 2008, we opened the National Aerospace Training and Research Center. This center is an integrated pilot training center offering a complete range of aviation training and research support for military jet pilots and civil aviation as well as space travel and tourism. We have invested and continue to invest a significant amount of capital and resources in creating the NASTAR Center and we cannot be certain that we will generate enough training revenues to recoup the major investment we have made. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in this new approach of marketing training services. If we are unsuccessful in selling our services, our business will suffer. We need to attain validation from the U.S. defense agencies of our Authentic Tactical Fighting Systems technology. A challenging issue for our ATFS technology has been marketing this technology to the world’s defense agencies. This is a new technology that goes contrary to conventional training belief that tactical flight and combat skills can only be learned in a flying aircraft. During fiscal 2008 we received awards from the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Air Force to develop Tactical Aircraft Configuration Modules (TacModules) to support research in our ATFS high performance human centrifuge. The ultimate goal is validation of this technology and its applicability to supplant flight training with ground based simulation. At this point we cannot be certain that we will be able to overcome the conventional thinking on training nor achieve an acceptable level of validation with respect to the applicability and efficacy of ATFS training. Our operations involve rapidly evolving products and technological change. The rapid change of technology is a key feature of most of the industries in which our businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through both customer-funded and internally funded research and development, and we expect this practice will continue to be required in the future. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development nor that this development will be customer-funded in the same ratio going forward. Reinvestment of operating funds and profits in an amount greater than currently earned may be required. Even so, we cannot be assured that we will successfully identify new opportunities and continue to have the financial resources required to develop new products profitably. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. Delays in the delivery of our products may prevent us from invoicing our costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for long-term contracts, under the percentage of completion (“POC”) accounting method, due to timing differences we record an asset for our costs and estimated earnings that exceed the amount we are able to bill our customers on uncompleted contracts. At February 29, 2008, this asset totaled $3.4 million. Although a significant portion of these costs have been billed and collected since fiscal year-end, we cannot bill additional amounts unless and until we meet certain contractual milestones related to the production, delivery and integration of our products. Typically, there will be a lag ranging from six to twenty-four months between performance and associated costs for these types of projects and billing and collection of payments. Our failure to meet these milestones by delivering and integrating our products in a timely manner may impact our ability to recover our costs and estimated earnings that exceeded our billings on uncompleted contracts, which could severely impact our cash flow. In the event we suffer production delays, we may be required to pay certain customers substantial liquidated damages and other penalties. The variety and complexity of our high technology product lines require us to deal with suppliers and subcontractors supplying highly specialized parts, operating highly sophisticated equipment and performing highly technical calculations. The processes of planning and managing production, inventory levels and delivery schedules are also highly complex and specialized. Many of our products must be custom designed and manufactured, which is not only complicated and expensive, but can also require long periods of 8 time to accomplish. Slight errors in design, planning and managing production, inventory levels, delivery schedules, or manufacturing can result in unsatisfactory products that may not be correctable. If we are unable to meet our delivery schedules, we may be subject to penalties, which may have an adverse impact on our business. Our fixed-price and cost-reimbursable contracts may commit us to unfavorable terms. Historically, we have provided our products and services primarily through fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts provided approximately 86% of our sales for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2008 and 92% of our sales for the fiscal year ended February 23, 2007. Under a fixed-price contract, we agree to perform the scope of work required by the contract for a predetermined contract price. Although a fixed-price contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract. Therefore, unless there are customer-requested changes in scope or other changes in specifications which are reimbursable, we fully absorb cost overruns on fixed-price contracts and this reduces our profit margin on the contract. These cost overruns may result in us recognizing a loss on the contract. A further risk associated with fixed-price contracts is the difficulty of estimating sales and costs that are related to performance in accordance with contract specifications. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract reduce our profitability and may cause us to incur a loss on the project. Our contracts and subcontracts that are funded by the U.S. Government or foreign governments are subject to government regulations, audits and other requirements. Government contracts require compliance with various contract provisions and procurement regulations. The adoption of new or modified procurement regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or increase the costs of competing for or performing government contracts. If we violate any of these regulations, then we may be subject to termination of these contracts, imposition of fines or exclusion from government contracting and government-approved subcontracting for some specific time period. During fiscal 2008, we agreed to settle a matter with the U.S. Navy by forgoing our claim for additional payment (a reserve for $3.0 million was recorded for this matter in fiscal 2007) and agreeing to pay $3.55 million. Additionally, we received a notice of suspension from the U. S. Navy in October 2007 which rendered us ineligible to solicit or receive additional government contracts. The suspension was lifted in December 2007. Our contract costs and revenues are subject to adjustment as a result of audits by government auditors. We reflect any adjustments required by government auditors in our financial statements. Although we have thus far not been required to make any material audit adjustments, adjustments may be required in the future. In connection with our government contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit or similar credit enhancements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining these types of credit enhancements or that the credit enhancements available will be affordable in the future. Our contracts that are funded by the U.S. Government or foreign governments are subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. Government contracts generally are awarded to us through a formal competitive bidding process in which we may have many competitors. Upon expiration, government contracts may be subject, once again, to the competitive bidding process. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace government contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our contracts with domestic or foreign government agencies are subject to competition and are awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, experience and price. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected to the extent that government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, new government contract awards also are subject to protest by competitors at the time of award that can result in the re-opening of the competition or evaluation process, the award of a contract to a competitor, or the re-opening of the competitive bidding process. We consider bid protests to be a customary element in the process of procuring government contracts. Other characteristics of the government contract market that may affect our operating results include the complexity of designs, the difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and the speed with which product lines become obsolete due to technological advances and other factors characteristic of the market. Our earnings may vary materially on some contracts depending upon the types of government long-term contracts undertaken, the costs incurred in their performance, and the achievement of other performance objectives. Our commercial contracts are subject to competition and strict performance and other requirements. Although significant portions of our revenues are generated from the sale of our services and products in commercial markets, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in these markets. Most of our commercial contracts contain fixed pricing which subjects us to substantial risks relating to unexpected cost increases and other factors outside of our control. We may fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract. Any of these failures may reduce our profit or cause a loss under our commercial contracts. 9 In connection with certain commercial contracts, we have been required to obtain bonds, letters of credit, or similar credit enhancements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining these types of credit enhancements or that the credit enhancements available will be affordable in the future. Under the terms of our commercial contracts, we typically must agree to meet strict performance obligations and project milestones, which we may not be able to satisfy. If we fail to meet these performance obligations and milestones, the other party may terminate the contract and, under certain circumstances, recover liquidated damages or other penalties from us which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities, which constitute a significant portion of our business. Our international business activities expose us to a variety of risks. Our international business, accounted for approximately 33% of our sales in fiscal 2008 and 62% of our sales in fiscal 2007. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of our overall business in the foreseeable future. Our international business experiences many of the same risks our domestic business encounters as well as additional risks such as: • the effects of terrorism; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • a longer and more complicated collections cycle; • a high degree of corruption in some countries; • a general decline in the strength of the global economy; • the effect of foreign military or political conflicts and turmoil; • U.S. foreign policy decisions; • the extent, if any, of anti-American sentiment; • changes in foreign governmental trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; • export controls; and • political and economic instability. The majority of our contracts which originate from ETC-Southampton are denominated in U.S. dollars. Except for intercompany work, and contracts with U.S. based companies, most of our contracts which originate from ETC-PZL are in Polish Zlotys. Since most of our production and administrative costs are based in U.S. dollars, the continued weakening of the U.S. dollar currency versus other international currencies may make our pricing un-competitive when compared to foreign local in-country competitors. Although we may be exposed to currency fluctuations, we are not engaged in any material foreign currency hedging activities to offset this risk. With respect to currency risk, where we have a large on-going contract which is denominated in a foreign currency, we often establish local in-country bank accounts and fund in-country expenses in the local currency, thus creating a “natural” currency hedge for a portion of the contract. Our international transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from stringent contractual terms and conditions and widely differing legal systems, banking requirements, customs and standards in foreign countries. In addition, our international sales often include sales to various foreign government armed forces, with many of the same inherent risks associated with U.S. government sales discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Legislative actions, higher director and officer insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to cause our general and administrative expenses to increase and impact our future financial condition and results of operations. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as the American Stock Exchange listing standards and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we have been required to strengthen our internal controls, hire additional personnel and retain additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which have caused and will continue to cause our general and administrative costs to increase. These and other costs of operating as a public company totaled approximately $1.2 million in fiscal 2008. We anticipate that public company costs will continue to constitute a significant portion of our general and administrative spending for so long as our stock is publicly traded. Although we have not experienced any director and officer liability claims, these premiums are a significant part of our business insurance premiums and may increase as a result of the (i) high claims rates insurers have incurred with other companies over the past years (ii) the high stock ownership position of some of our non-affiliated shareholders, and (iii) our reduced operating performance. All of these increased costs have had and will continue to have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our operations could be hurt by terrorist attacks, war and other activities or occurrences that make air travel difficult or reduce the willingness of our commercial airline customers to purchase our simulation products. 10 As stated above, international sales accounted for 33% and 62% of our revenues for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the event terrorist attacks, war or other activities or occurrences make air travel difficult or reduce the demand or willingness of our customers to purchase our commercial simulation products, our revenue may decline. Geo-political and other factors may also limit or restrict our employees’ ability to gain entrance to foreign locations to sell products or perform contract services. There is limited trading activity in our common stock which could make it difficult for our investors to sell their shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange. Our average daily trading volume on the American Stock Exchange during fiscal 2008 was 8,053 shares; on the consolidated markets (which includes shares traded on the American Stock Exchange), the average daily volume was 13,670 shares. This limited trading activity may make it difficult for investors to sell larger blocks of our common stock at prevailing prices as there are generally a small number of participants in the market for our common stock and such sales may lower the market price of our common stock. In the event that our common stock is delisted from the American Stock Exchange, it may be more difficult to buy and sell our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of securities of thinly traded public companies has historically faced significant volatility. Although our common stock is currently traded on the American Stock Exchange, it does not experience a significant average daily trading volume. Accordingly, if one stockholder elects to either purchase or sell a block of our common stock, it may have a significant effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors that have influenced trading prices will vary from period to period, including: • actual or anticipated operating results; • market conditions in the industry; • announcements by competitors; • results of litigation; • Regulatory actions; and • general economic conditions. Any of these events would likely affect the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on factors that include the following: • the number, size and scope of our projects; • the mix of contracts (POC versus other); • equipment purchases and other expenditures required for our business; • the number of bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • delays in sales or production; • the level of employee productivity; • the adequacy of our provisions for receivable, inventory and other losses; • the accuracy of our estimate of resources required to complete ongoing projects; and • general economic conditions. Demand for our products and services in each of the markets we serve can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to revisions in customer budgets or schedules and other factors beyond our control. Due to all of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of our investors in a particular period. In this event, the price of our common stock may decline. Our officers and directors own a significant amount of our common stock which permits them to exert significant influence over the direction of our business and affairs. As of May 15, 2008, our directors and executive officers own an aggregate of approximately 57% on a fully converted basis of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our directors and executive officers, if they act together, will be able to exert control over the direction of our business and affairs. 