risk factors occur. Security is critically important to our business, and breaches of security, or the perception that e-commerce is not secure, could harm our business and reputation. Business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce, including that which is Internet-based, requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Several of our products are accessed through the Internet, including our consumer and commercial information services that are delivered via ePORT, our Internet delivery channel, and our Personal Solutions services accessible through the www.equifax.com website. Security breaches in connection with the delivery of our products and services via ePORT, our Personal Solutions website, or well-publicized security breaches not 17 involving the Internet that may affect us or our industry, such as database intrusion, could be detrimental to our business, operating results and financial condition. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products, consumer services and proprietary database information. If we experience system failures, the delivery of our products and services to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation and result in the loss of customers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Some of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, war, terrorist act, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. The steps we have taken to prevent a system failure, including backup disaster recovery systems, may not be successful, and our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, could make it more difficult to run our business and reduce our likelihood of success. We are dependent on our ability to attract and retain experienced sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, technical support and management personnel. The loss of our key employees and management might slow the achievement of important business goals. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled and experienced technical personnel on acceptable terms because of intense competition. We could fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on the protection of our technology, products, services and brands through intellectual property right protections, including patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets and trademarks. The extent to which such rights can be protected and enforced varies in different jurisdictions. We face and could continue to face claims for intellectual property infringement. There is a risk of litigation relating to our use or future use of intellectual property rights of third parties. Third-party infringement claims and any related litigation against us could subject us to liability for damages, restrict us from using and providing our technologies, products or services or operating our business generally, or require changes to be made to our technologies, products and services. We are currently a defendant in litigation brought by Fair Isaac Corporation arising from our development with TransUnion and Experian of the VantageScore credit scoring product that is competitive with Fair Isaac’s products, in which the plaintiff has alleged trademark infringement, among other claims. Our agreements with key long-term customers may not be renewed. We have long-standing relationships with a number of our large customers. There can be no assurance that these relationships will continue, due to market competition, customer requirements and customer consolidation through mergers or acquisitions. Although our largest single customer represents only slightly more than 2% of our revenue, the loss of a significant number of major customers could materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or operating results. 18 Our tax provisions may not be adequate. Although we believe we have made appropriate provisions for taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate on the basis of current law, due to possible changes of law or challenges from tax authorities under existing laws it is possible that the provision may turn out to be insufficient and this could materially affect our financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Industry Changes in the legislative, regulatory and judicial environments may adversely affect our ability to collect, manage, aggregate and use data. The credit reporting and direct marketing industries are subject to substantial government regulation relating to individual privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals. The information and personal data we collect is subject to a variety of government regulations, including, but not limited to, those described above under “Government Regulation.” In addition, public interest in individual privacy rights and the collection, protection, distribution and use of information about individuals may result in the adoption of new federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could include increased compliance requirements and restrictions on the purchase, sale and sharing of information about consumers for commercial purposes. This could have a negative impact on our ability to collect such information provided by consumers voluntarily. Future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, management and use of data about individuals, and adverse publicity, judicial interpretations or potential litigation concerning the commercial use of such information may result in substantial regulatory compliance costs, litigation expense or a loss of revenue. The outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings in which we are involved could be adverse. Various legal proceedings arise during the normal course of our business. These include individual consumer cases, class action lawsuits, and actions brought by regulators. While we do not currently believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Our insurance arrangements may be insufficient to cover an adverse judgment in a large lawsuit. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for information on our material pending litigation. There may be further consolidation in our end-client markets. To the extent that our existing clients merge with or are acquired by other entities who are not our clients or who use fewer of our services, such as in the financial services sector, we could be adversely impacted if the surviving entities use fewer of our services or discontinue use of our services altogether, or if the number of potential clients is thereby reduced. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of the then-existing shareholders’ equity interests in us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of shareholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of 19 holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common shareholders’ interest. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, we are authorized to issue, without shareholder approval, up to 300,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 128,615,662 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2006, including shares held by employee benefits trusts. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan, other agreements and Georgia law may make it difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even in situations that may be viewed as desirable by our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws, shareholder rights plan, other agreements and the General Business Corporation Code of the State of Georgia, or Georgia Code, contain provisions that may delay or prevent an attempt by a third-party to acquire control of our company. For example, our articles of incorporation: · Provide for classified terms for the members of our Board of Directors; · Authorize our Board of Directors to fill vacant directorships or to increase the size of the Board; · Do not authorize our shareholders to remove a director without cause; · Do not authorize our shareholders to cumulate voting in the election of directors; and · Authorize the issuance of preferred stock with such rights, powers and privileges as the Board of Directors deems appropriate. In addition, our bylaws limit the ability of shareholders to bring business before a meeting of shareholders and do not allow our shareholders to act by written consent. We are a Georgia corporation and have elected to be governed by the “business combination” and “fair price” provisions of the Georgia Code, that could be viewed as having the effect of discouraging an attempt to obtain control of us. The business combination provision generally would prohibit us from engaging in various business combination transactions with any interested shareholder for a period of five years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless certain designated conditions are met. The fair price provision generally requires that, absent Board or shareholder approval of an acquisition or merger, an interested shareholder seeking to engage in a business combination transaction with us must pay the remaining shareholders the same price for their shares as was paid by the interested shareholder to acquire beneficial ownership of 10% or more of our outstanding voting shares. We have also implemented a shareholder rights plan, sometimes referred to as a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third-party to acquire our company on a hostile basis. These provisions could also discourage or impede a tender offer, proxy contest or other similar transaction involving control of us, even if viewed favorably by shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the SEC at December 31, 2006. 