Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Executive Officers of the Registrant PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Index to Financial Statements Covered by Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Index to Exhibits Signatures Certifications 2 Glossary of Commonly Used Terms, Abbreviations, and Measurements Commonly Used Terms Appalachian Basin – The area of the United States comprised of those portions of West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Maryland, Kentucky and Virginia that lie at the foot of the Appalachian Mountains. basis – When referring to natural gas, the difference between the futures price for a commodity and the corresponding sales price at various regional sales points. The differential commonly is related to factors such as product quality, location and contract pricing. Btu – One British thermal unit – a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit. cash flow hedge – A derivative instrument that complies with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended, and is used to reduce the exposure to variability in cash flows from the forecasted physical sale of gas production whereby the gains (losses) on the derivative transaction are anticipated to offset the losses (gains) on the forecasted physical sale. collar – A financial arrangement that effectively establishes a price range for the underlying commodity. The producer bears the risk of fluctuation between the minimum (floor) price and the maximum (ceiling) price. dekatherm(dth) – A measurement unit of heat energy equal to 1,000,000 British thermal units. development well – A well drilled into a known producing formation in a previously discovered field. exploratory well – A well drilled into a previously untested geologic prospect to determine the presence of gas or oil. farm tap – Natural gas supply service in which the customer is served directly from a well or gathering pipeline. futures contract – An exchange-traded legal contract to buy or sell a standard quantity and quality of a commodity at a specified future date and price. gas – All references to “gas” in this report refer to natural gas. gross – “Gross” natural gas and oil wells or “gross” acres equal the total number of wells or acres in which the Company has a working interest. heating degree days – Measure used to assess weather’s impact on natural gas usage calculated by adding the difference between 65 degrees Fahrenheit and the average temperature of each day in the period (if less than 65 degrees Fahrenheit). Each degree of temperature by which the average temperature falls below 65 degrees Fahrenheit represents one heating degree day. For example, a day with an average temperature of 50 degrees Fahrenheit will have 15 heating degree days. hedging – The use of derivative commodity and interest rate instruments to reduce financial exposure to commodity price and interest rate volatility. horizontal drilling – Drilling that ultimately is horizontal or near horizontal to increase the length of the well bore penetrating the target formation. infill drilling – Drilling between producing wells in a developed field to increase production. margin deposits – Funds or good faith deposits posted during the trading life of a futures contract to guarantee fulfillment of contract obligations. 3 Glossary of Commonly Used Terms, Abbreviations, and Measurements margin call – A demand for additional or variation margin deposits when futures prices move adversely to a hedging party’s position. multiple completion well – A well producing oil and/or gas from different zones at different depths in the same well bore with separate tubing strings for each zone. net – “Net” gas and oil wells or “net” acres are determined by summing the fractional ownership working interests the Company has in gross wells or acres. net revenue interest – The interest retained by the Company in the revenues from a well or property after giving effect to all third party royalty interests (equal to 100% minus all royalties on a well or property). proved reserves – Reserves that, based on geologic and engineering data, appear with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in the future from known oil and gas reserves under existing economic and operating conditions. proved developed reserves – Proved reserves which can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. proved undeveloped reserves – Proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled proved acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for completion. reservoir – A porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible natural gas and/or oil that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is separate from other reservoirs. royalty interest – the land owner’s share of oil or gas production (typically 1/8, 1/6, or 1/4) free of cost. transportation – Moving gas through pipelines on a contract basis for others. throughput – Total volumes of natural gas sold or transported by an entity. working interest – An interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on a property and receive a share of any production. Abbreviations APB No. 18 – Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock” APB No. 25 – Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” EITF No. 02-3 – Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 02-3, “Recognition and Reporting of Gains and Losses on Energy Trading Contracts under EITF Issues No. 98-10 and 00-17” FASB – Financial Accounting Standards Board FERC – Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FIN 45 – FASB Interpretation No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others – an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34” FIN 48 – FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” IRC – Internal Revenue Code of 1986 IRS – Internal Revenue Service NYMEX – New York Mercantile Exchange OTC – Over the Counter PA PUC – Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission SEC – Securities and Exchange Commission 4 Glossary of Commonly Used Terms, Abbreviations, and Measurements SFAS – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards SFAS No. 5 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” SFAS No. 19 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 19, “Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies” SFAS No. 69 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, “Disclosures About Oil and Gas Producing Activities – an amendment of FASB Statements 19, 25, 33, and 39” SFAS No. 71 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation” SFAS No. 87 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions” SFAS No. 88 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 88, “Employers’ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits” SFAS No. 106 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions” SFAS No. 109 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes” SFAS No. 115 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” SFAS No. 123 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” SFAS No. 123R – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” SFAS No. 133 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended SFAS No. 143 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations” SFAS No. 144 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” SFAS No. 146 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities” SFAS No. 157 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” SFAS No. 158 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans – an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)” SFAS No. 159 – Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115” WV PSC – Public Service Commission of West Virginia Measurements Bbl = barrelBcf = billion cubic feetBcfe = billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalentsMcf = thousand cubic feetMcfe = thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalentsMMBtu = million British thermal unitsMMcf = million cubic feetMMcfe = million cubic feet of natural gas equivalents 5 PART I Forward-Looking Statements Disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking and usually identified by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “forecasts,” “approximate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe” and other words of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial matters. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this report include the matters discussed in the sections captioned “Outlook” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the expectations of plans, strategies, objectives, and growth and anticipated financial and operational performance of the Company and its subsidiaries, including guidance regarding the Company’s drilling and infrastructure programs, production volumes, reserves, capital expenditures, the pending acquisition of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc., the financing of that acquisition, and the Company’s move to a holding company structure. A variety of factors could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of the Company’s business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth under Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the Company does not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1. Business General In this Form 10-K, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Equitable,” “Equitable Resources” and “the Company” refer collectively to Equitable Resources, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified. Equitable Resources, Inc. is an integrated energy company, with an emphasis on Appalachian area natural gas supply activities including production and gathering and natural gas distribution and transmission. The Company and its subsidiaries offer energy (natural gas, and a limited amount of natural gas liquids and crude oil) products and services to wholesale and retail customers through two business segments: Equitable Utilities and Equitable Supply. In December 2005, the Company discontinued and sold the operations of its NORESCO segment, which provided energy efficiency solutions to customers including governmental, military, institutional, commercial and industrial end-users. The Company was formed under the laws of Pennsylvania by the consolidation and merger in 1925 of two companies, the older of which was organized in 1888. In 1984, the corporate name was changed to Equitable Resources, Inc. The Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 1,340 employees at the end of 2006, of which 332 employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. In January 2007, the Company and one union reached agreement on a three-year renewal contract for various clerical employees represented by the union. Although one union representing 14 employees has been operating without a contract since April 19, 2004, the Company believes that its employee relations are generally good. The Company makes certain filings with the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports, available free of charge through its website, http://www.eqt.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The filings are also available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, these filings are available on the internet at http://www.sec.gov. The 6 Company’s annual reports to shareholders, press releases and recent analyst presentations are also available on the Company’s website. Business Segments Equitable Utilities Equitable Utilities’ operations comprise the gathering, transportation, storage, distribution and sale of natural gas. Equitable Utilities has both regulated and nonregulated operations. The regulated activities consist of the Company’s state-regulated distribution operations and federally-regulated pipeline and storage operations. The nonregulated activities include the non-jurisdictional marketing of natural gas, risk management activities for the Company and the sale of energy-related products and services. Equitable Utilities generated approximately ­­36% of the Company’s net operating revenues in 2006. Distribution Operations Equitable Utilities’ distribution operations are carried out by Equitable Gas Company (Equitable Gas), a division of the Company. The service territory for the distribution operations includes southwestern Pennsylvania, municipalities in northern West Virginia and field line sales, also referred to as farm tap service, in eastern Kentucky and West Virginia. These areas have a rather static population and economy. The distribution operations provide natural gas services to approximately 274,000 customers, comprising 255,400 residential customers and 18,600 commercial and industrial customers. Equitable Gas purchases gas through contracts with various sources including major and independent producers in the Gulf Coast, local producers in the Appalachian area and gas marketers (including an affiliate). These contracts contain various pricing mechanisms, ranging from fixed prices to several different index-related prices. Equitable Gas’ distribution rates, terms of service, contracts with affiliates and issuance of securities are subject to comprehensive regulation by the PA PUC and the WV PSC. The field line sales rates in Kentucky are also subject to rate regulation by the Kentucky Public Service Commission. Equitable Gas also operates a small gathering system in Pennsylvania, which is not subject to comprehensive regulation. The Company must usually seek approval of one or more of its regulators prior to increasing (or decreasing) its rates. Currently, Equitable Gas passes through to its regulated customers the cost of its purchased gas and transportation activities. It is allowed to recover a return in addition to the costs of its transportation activities. However, the Company’s regulators do not guarantee recovery and may require that certain costs of operation be recovered over an extended term. Equitable Gas has worked with, and continues to work with, regulators to implement alternative performance-based rates. Equitable Gas’ tariffs for commercial and industrial customers allow for negotiated rates in limited circumstances. Equitable Gas has not filed a base rate case since 1997, and its predominant approach to maximizing value is cost control and operational excellence. Regulators periodically audit the Company’s compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. The Company is not aware of any significant non-compliance as a result of any completed audits. Because most of its customers use natural gas for heating purposes, Equitable Gas’ revenues are seasonal, with approximately 72% of calendar year 2006 revenues occurring during the winter heating season (the months of January, February, March, November and December). Significant quantities of purchased natural gas are placed in underground storage inventory during the off-peak season to accommodate higher demand during the winter heating season. On March 1, 2006, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Dominion Resources, Inc.’s natural gas distribution assets in Pennsylvania and in West Virginia for approximately $970 million, subject to adjustments, in a cash transaction for the stock of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc. The transaction requires approvals from the PA PUC and the WV PSC and is also under review by the Pennsylvania Attorney General and by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). On February 9, 2007 an administrative law judge for the PA PUC issued an initial decision approving the stock acquisition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Joint Petition for Settlement filed by the Company and a number of the intervening parties. The Joint Petition for 7 Settlement includes, among other things, an agreement by the Company that Equitable Gas Company and The Peoples Natural Gas Company will not make base rate case filings prior to January 1, 2009. Under the Commission’s rules a period for filing exceptions and reply exceptions has begun to run. Based upon the thorough manner in which the administrative law judge addressed the testimony of opposing parties, the Company believes it likely that the PA PUC will approve the stock acquisition when it reviews the application in March or April of 2007. The WV PSC procedural schedule calls for hearings in mid-May 2007. The WV PSC staff and consumer advocate, the Independent Oil and Gas Association of West Virginia and the Utility Workers Union of America Local 69 Division 1 have intervened in the West Virginia regulatory case. The Company continues to engage in settlement negotiations with these interveners. The Company is complying with the information requests of the Pennsylvania Attorney General and the FTC and is targeting an approval timeframe not long after receiving approval from the PA PUC. No assurance is given that the targeted timeframes will be achieved. The Company’s acquisition agreement expires on March 31, 2007 unless a closing has not occurred due to a failure to obtain a required governmental consent or authorization and such is being diligently pursued, in which case the expiration date is automatically extended to June 30, 2007. The agreement will then terminate if no closing occurs by June 30, 2007, unless the parties agree to an extension. The assets to be acquired will increase: customers in the distribution operations by 475,000 or 173%; total storage capacity by 33 Bcf or 60%, miles of gathering pipelines by 936 miles; gathered volumes by 40%; and miles of high pressure transmission by 466 miles or 42%. Transition planning activities have commenced at Equitable Utilities to plan for the integration of the assets, resources, and business processes of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc.’s into Equitable Resources. Pipeline (Transportation and Storage) Operations Equitable Utilities’ interstate pipeline operations are carried out by Equitrans, L.P. (Equitrans). These operations offer gas gathering, transportation, storage and related services to affiliates and third parties in the northeastern United States, including but not limited to, Dominion Resources, Inc., Keyspan Corporation, NiSource, Inc., PECO Energy Company and Amerada Hess Corporation. In 2006, approximately 77% of transportation volumes and approximately 62% of transportation revenues were from affiliates. In the second quarter of 2006, the Company filed a certificate application with the FERC for approval to build a 70-mile, 20-inch diameter pipeline which will connect the Company-operated Kentucky hydrocarbon processing plant in Langley, Kentucky, to the Tennessee Gas Pipeline in Carter County, Kentucky, and will initially provide up to 130,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation service. The pipeline, known as The Big Sandy Pipeline, is owned and operated by Equitrans and is targeted for completion in 2007. Equitrans has secured most of the materials, labor and rights-of-way necessary to complete the project. Equitrans received a FERC certificate on November 15, 2006, authorizing construction of the pipeline subject to certain operational, commercial and environmental conditions. Equitrans’ implementation plan addressed those conditions and received FERC approval on November 29, 2006. Capital expenditures incurred by the Company in 2006 related to the Big Sandy Pipeline are included in the Equitable Supply business segment. Equitrans’ rates are subject to regulation by the FERC. On April 5, 2006, the FERC approved a settlement to Equitrans’ consolidated 2005 and 2004 rate case filings. The settlement became effective on June 1, 2006. The settlement provided for the following: · An expected annual revenue increase of $6.0 million and an expected operating income increase of $3.2 million · Replenishment of 7.1 Bcf of migrated base gas from prior periods · Consolidation of transmission assets into a single transmission system with a system-wide rate · Consolidation of gathering assets into a single gathering system with a system-wide rate · Tracking and recovery of costs relating to compliance with the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 · Redesigned contract storage services · Five-year rate moratorium on gathering rates · Three-year rate moratorium on transmission rates 8 Equitrans’ firm transportation contracts expire between 2007 and 2009. The Company anticipates that the majority of the related volumes will be fully subscribed when they become available. Energy Marketing Equitable Utilities’ unregulated marketing operations include the non-jurisdictional marketing of natural gas at Equitable Gas, marketing and risk management activities at Equitable Energy, LLC (Equitable Energy), and the sale of energy-related products and services by Equitable Homeworks, LLC. Services and products offered by the marketing operations include commodity procurement, delivery and storage services, such as park and loan services, risk management and other services for energy consumers including large industrial, utility, commercial and institutional end-users. Equitable Energy also engages in trading and risk management activities for the Company. The objective of these activities is to limit the Company’s exposure to shifts in market prices and to optimize the use of the Company’s assets. Equitable Supply Equitable Supply’s production business develops, produces and sells natural gas and, to a limited extent, crude oil and natural gas liquids, in the Appalachian region of the United States. Its gathering business consists of gathering the Company’s and third party gas and the processing of natural gas liquids. Equitable Supply generated approximately 64% of the Company’s net operating revenues in 2006. Production Equitable Supply’s production business, operating through Equitable Production Company and several other affiliates (collectively referred to as “Equitable Production”), is the largest owner of proved natural gas reserves in the Appalachian Basin. The Company’s reserves are located entirely in the Appalachian Basin, where Equitable Production currently operates approximately 12,000 producing wells. The Appalachian Basin is characterized by wells with comparatively low rates of annual decline in production, long well lives, low production costs per well and high energy content. Many of the Company’s wells have been producing for decades, and in some cases since the early 1900’s. Management believes that virtually all of the Company’s wells are low risk development wells because they are drilled in areas known to be productive. Many of these wells are completed in more than one producing formation, including coal formations in certain areas, and production from these formations may be commingled. The Company’s 2006 drilling program was comprised dominantly of vertical wells, but also included horizontal drilling. In 2006, Equitable Production drilled 560 gross operated wells (427 net operated wells), including 5 horizontal wells, and 95 gross non-operated wells (28 net non-operated wells) at a success rate of nearly 100%. Drilling was concentrated within Equitable’s core areas of southwestern Virginia, southeastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia. This activity resulted in proved developed reserve additions of approximately 120 Bcfe. Of the proved developed reserve additions, approximately 60 Bcfe relates to proved undeveloped reserves that were transferred to proved developed reserves and an equal amount relates to proved developed extensions, discoveries and other additions that were not previously classified as proved. The natural gas produced by Equitable Supply is a commodity and therefore the Company receives market-based pricing. The market price for gas located in the Appalachian Basin is generally higher than the price for gas located in the Gulf Coast, largely due to the differential in the cost to transport gas to customers in the northeastern United States. The recent increase in production in the Appalachian Basin by the Company and other producers is putting pressure on the capacity of existing gathering and midstream transport systems. As a result, the Company has entered into certain discounted sales arrangements to ensure that its gas continues to flow. The combination of long-lived production, low drilling costs, high drilling completion rates and proximity to natural gas markets has resulted in a highly fragmented operating environment in the Appalachian Basin. Natural gas drilling activity has increased as suppliers in the Appalachian Basin attempt to take advantage of higher than normal natural gas prices. While increased activity can place constraints on capacity of labor, equipment, pipeline 9 availability and other resources in the Appalachian Basin, it also provides opportunities for expansion of natural gas gathering activities and potential for higher quality rigs and labor providers in the future. Equitable Supply hedges a portion of its forecasted natural gas production. It also hedges third party purchases and sales. The Company’s hedging strategy and information regarding its derivative instruments are outlined in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and in Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Gathering Equitable Gathering derives its revenues from charges to customers for use of its gathering system in the Appalachian Basin. As of December 31, 2006, the system included approximately 7,100 miles of gathering line located throughout West Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southwestern Virginia. Over 85% of the gathering system volumes are transported to interconnects with three major interstate pipelines: Columbia Gas Transmission, East Tennessee Natural Gas Company and Dominion Transmission. The gathering system also maintains interconnects with Equitrans, the Company’s interstate pipeline affiliate. Maintaining these interconnects provides the Company with access to geographically diverse markets. Gathering system sales volumes for 2006 totaled 108.6 Bcfe, of which approximately 64% related to the gathering of Equitable Production’s gas volumes, 26% related to third party volumes, and the remainder related to volumes in which interests were sold by the Company but which the Company continued to operate for a fee. Approximately 82% of Equitable Gathering’s 2006 revenues were from affiliates. Due to increased operating costs and capital investment, Equitable Gathering is, in certain cases, charging gathering rates which are below its cost of service. Equitable Gathering continues to pursue full recovery of these costs by increasing rates charged to its customers. Key competitors for new gathering systems include independent gas gatherers and integrated Appalachian energy companies. See “Outlook” under Equitable Supply’s section of Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for discussion of the Company’s strategy in regards to its midstream gathering operations. Transfer of Gathering Assets Effective January 1, 2006, certain gathering assets, consisting of 1,400 miles of gathering line and related facilities with approximately 13.3 Bcf of annual throughput, were transferred from Equitable Supply to Equitable Utilities for segment reporting purposes. The effect of the transfer is not material to the results of operations or financial position of the Equitable Utilities or Equitable Supply segments; segment results have not been restated for this transfer. 10 Discontinued Operations In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company sold its NORESCO domestic business for $82 million before customary purchase price adjustments. In the second quarter of 2006, the Company completed the sale of the remaining interest in its investment in IGC/ERI Pan-Am Thermal Generating Limited (Pan Am), previously included in the NORESCO business segment, for total proceeds of $2.6 million. As a result of these transactions, the Company has reclassified its financial statements for all periods presented to reflect the operating results of the NORESCO segment as discontinued operations. Composition of Segment Operating Revenues Presented below are operating revenues as a percentage of total operating revenues for each class of products and services representing greater than 10% of total operating revenues during the years 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Equitable Utilities: Residential natural gas sales 24 % 26 % 29 % Marketed natural gas sales 30 % 27 % 23 % Equitable Supply: Natural gas equivalents sales 29 % 30 % 29 % Financial Information About Segments See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information by business segment including, but not limited to, revenues from external customers, operating income, and total assets. Financial Information About Geographic Areas Substantially all of the Company’s assets and operations are located in the continental United States. Environmental See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding environmental matters. 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have a negative impact on our business and operations. Natural gas price volatility may have an adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and liquidity. Our revenue, profitability and liquidity depend on the price for natural gas. The markets for natural gas are volatile and fluctuations in prices will affect our financial results. Natural gas prices are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which include: weather conditions; the supply of and demand for natural gas; national and worldwide economic and political conditions; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity to, and availability of capacity on, transportation facilities; and government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation, royalties and price controls. Increases in natural gas prices may be accompanied by or result in increased well drilling costs, increased deferral of purchased gas costs for our distribution operations, increased production taxes, increased lease operating expenses, increased exposure to credit losses resulting from potential increases in uncollectible accounts receivable from our distribution customers, increased volatility in seasonal gas price spreads for our storage assets, and increased customer conservation or conversion to alternative fuels. Significant price increases, such as occurred in the fall and winter of 2005, subject us to margin calls on our commodity price derivative contracts (hedging arrangements, including futures contracts, swap agreements and exchange traded instruments) which require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral with our hedge counterparties. The cash collateral, which is interest-bearing, provided to our hedge counterparties is returned to us in whole or in part upon a reduction in forward market prices, depending on the amount of such reduction, or in whole upon settlement of the related hedged transaction. In such cases we are, however, exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties of their obligations under the derivative contracts. In addition, to the extent we have hedged our current production at prices below the current market price, we are unable to benefit fully from the increase in the price of natural gas. Lower natural gas prices, increases in our estimates of development costs or changes to our production assumptions may result in our having to make downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, change our production plans, and incur non-cash charges to earnings. Our failure to assess production opportunities based on market conditions could negatively impact our long-term growth prospects for our production business. Our goal of sustaining long-term growth for our production business is contingent upon our ability to identify production opportunities based on market conditions. Successfully identifying production opportunities involves a high degree of business experience, knowledge and careful evaluation of potential opportunities, along with subjective judgments and assumptions which may prove to be incorrect. Our failure to develop and maintain the necessary infrastructure to successfully deliver gas to market may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations. Our gas delivery depends on the availability of adequate transportation infrastructure. We have announced a significant investment in transportation infrastructure (the Big Sandy Pipeline) which is intended to address a lack of capacity on and access to existing transportation pipelines as well as curtailments on such pipelines. We are also planning an upgrade to the Company-operated hydrocarbon processing plant in Langley, Kentucky for completion in early 2008. Our infrastructure development program can involve significant risks, including those related to timing and cost overruns and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, materials, and a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology and other factors. In addition, we may not be able to obtain sufficient third party transportation contracts to recover the costs of our infrastructure development program. We also deliver to and are served by third party gas gathering, transportation, 12 processing and storage facilities which are limited in number and geographically concentrated. An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities could result in material adverse consequences to us. The amount and timing of actual future gas production is difficult to predict and may vary significantly from our estimates which may reduce our earnings. Our future success depends on our ability to develop additional gas reserves that are economically recoverable and to maximize existing well production, and our failure to do so may reduce our earnings. We have expanded our drilling program in recent years, and we have subsequently announced further expansion. Our drilling of development wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing and cost overruns and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, leases, rigs and a qualified work force, as well as weather conditions, gas price volatility, government approvals, title problems, geology and other factors. Drilling for natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit due to inadequate well operation and compressor availability. Without continued successful development or acquisition activities, our reserves and revenues will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production. We may engage in acquisition and disposition strategies that involve a number of inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits and may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations. On March 1, 2006, we signed a purchase agreement to acquire the capital stock of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc. from Consolidated Natural Gas Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Resources, Inc. In addition, we intend to continue to strategically position our business in order to improve our ability to compete. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such as assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; the constraints imposed by regulators in approving such transactions; the potential for unions of an acquired business to strike; our ability to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; demands on management related to the increase in size after an acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction. We may be unable to realize, or do so within any particular time frame, the cost reductions, cash flow increases or other synergies expected to result from such transactions. In addition, various factors including prevailing market conditions and the incursion of related contingent liabilities could negatively impact the benefits we receive from transactions. If we fail to achieve our strategic or financial goals in any acquisition or disposition transaction, it could have a significant adverse affect on our earnings, cash flows and results of operations. Furthermore, if we borrow money to finance an acquisition, which we plan to do in connection with the acquisition of The Peoples Natural Gas Company and Hope Gas, Inc., our failure to achieve our stated goals could impact our ability to repay such borrowings or other borrowings and could weaken our financial condition. Moreover, additional debt could increase our vulnerability to the effects of interest rate movements. We are subject to risks associated with the operation of our pipelines and facilities. Our business operations are subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the production, transportation, storage and distribution of natural gas. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. As a result, we are sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability of such losses will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices. 13 Our need to comply with comprehensive, complex and sometimes unpredictable government regulations may increase our costs and limit our revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings. Significant portions of our gathering, transportation, storage and distribution businesses are subject to state and federal regulation including regulation of the rates which we may assess our customers. The agencies that regulate our rates may prohibit us from realizing a level of return which we believe is appropriate. These restrictions may take the form of imputed revenue credits, cost disallowances (including purchased gas cost recoveries) and/or expense deferrals. Additionally, we may be required to provide additional assistance to low income residential customers to help pay their bills. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local, as well as foreign authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, restoration of drilling properties after drilling is completed, pipeline safety and work practices related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements could have a significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position. If we fail to comply with these requirements, even if caused by factors beyond our control, such failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us. The rates of federal, state and local taxes applicable to the industries in which we operate, including production taxes paid by Equitable Supply, which often fluctuate, could be increased by the respective taxing authorities. In addition, the tax laws, rules and regulations that affect our business could change. Any such increase or change could adversely impact our cash flows and profitability. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” for further discussion regarding the Company’s exposure to market risks, including the risks associated with our use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 