Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the Company’s actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Before investing in the Company, investors should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that are described below are not the only ones the Company faces. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively affected. The sale of Albertsons to Supervalu, CVS and the Cerberus Group is subject to certain closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the Transactions not being completed, which may cause the market price of Albertsons common stock to decline. The pending sale of Albertsons is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the receipt of required approvals of the shareholders of Albertsons and Supervalu and regulatory approvals. Many of the conditions to the closing of the Transactions are outside of the control of Albertsons. If any condition to the closing of the Transactions is not satisfied or, if permissible, waived, the Transactions will not be completed. If Albertsons does not complete the Transactions, the market price of Albertsons common stock may fluctuate to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Transactions will be completed. Albertsons will also be obligated to pay certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and related expenses in connection with the Transactions, whether or not the Transactions are completed. In addition, Albertsons has expended, and will continue to expend, significant management resources in an effort to complete the Transactions. If the Transactions are not completed, Albertsons will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which they will have received little or no benefit. Further, Albertsons may be required to pay to Supervalu a termination fee of $276 if the merger agreement is terminated under certain specified circumstances. Whether or not the Transactions are completed, the announcement and pendency of the Transactions could cause disruptions in the Company’s business, which could have an adverse effect on its business and financial results. Whether or not the Transactions are completed, the announcement and pendency of the Transactions could cause disruptions in the Company’s business. Specifically: • current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company, which might adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain key managers and other employees; and • the attention of management may be directed toward the completion of the Transactions, rather than toward the execution of existing business plans. The Company faces a high level of competition in the retail food business and the competition the Company encounters may have a negative impact on the prices it may charge for products and the Company’s revenues and profitability. The retail food and drug industries in which the Company competes are extremely competitive. The number and type of competitors vary by location and include: • national, regional and local supermarket chains; • independent and specialty grocers; and • “nontraditional” food stores, such as supercenters, club stores, specialty retailers (such as pet centers and toy stores) and large scale drug retailers. The Company also faces increasing competition from convenience stores, prepared food retailers and Internet and mail-order retailers. The Company’s principal competitors compete primarily on the basis of price, quality of products, product assortment, service and store location. An overall lack of inflation in food prices and increasingly competitive markets have made it difficult generally for grocery store operators to achieve comparable store sales gains. Because sales growth has been difficult to attain, competitors have attempted to maintain market share through increased levels of promotional activities and discount pricing, creating a more difficult 7 Table of Contents environment in which to consistently increase year-over-year sales. Price-based competition has also, from time to time, adversely affected the Company’s operating margins. The Company faces increased competitive pressure in its markets from existing competitors and from the threatened entry by one or more major new competitors. Some of the Company’s “nontraditional” competitors are not unionized and therefore have lower labor costs, which allows them to take measures that could adversely affect the Company’s competitive position. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by competitive factors, including product mix and pricing changes that the Company may make in response to competition from existing or new competitors. The Company could experience labor disputes that could disrupt its business. As of February 2, 2006, approximately 52% of the Company’s employees were represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements that are subject to periodic renegotiations. Although the Company believes that it will successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements as agreements expire, these negotiations: • may not prove successful; • may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor; or • may break down and result in the disruption of the Company’s operations. The Company cannot provide assurances that its labor negotiations will conclude successfully or that any work stoppage or labor disturbances will not occur. Any future work stoppages or labor disturbances may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is affected by increasing labor costs, which could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s labor costs have increased in the past, partially due to increases in the contributions Albertsons is required to make under union-sponsored multiemployer pension plans and health and welfare plans. Contribution amounts are established under collective bargaining agreements, which are up for renewal at varying times over the next several years. If the pension plan and health and welfare plan provisions of certain of these collective bargaining agreements cannot be renegotiated in a manner that reduces the Company’s prospective pension and health and welfare costs as the Company intends, selling, general and administrative expenses could increase, possibly significantly, in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operation. Additionally, with regard to the multiemployer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements, primarily for defined benefit pension plans, the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations establish minimum funding requirements. If any multiemployer defined benefit pension plan to which the Company makes contributions fails to satisfy these requirements, and the trustees of such plan have not obtained waivers of the minimum funding requirements from the Internal Revenue Service, reduced pension benefits to a level where the requirements are satisfied, or made other adjustments, the Internal Revenue Code imposes an excise tax on all employers participating in the plan to correct the funding deficiency, which would also cause the Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses to increase, and any such increase may be significant. Further, in the event of the Company’s withdrawal from any of the multiemployer defined benefit pension plans, it could incur withdrawal liability under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and any such liability may be significant. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 