Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to capital, cost of capital and business operations. Recently, the general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. If these conditions continue or become worse, our future cost of debt and equity capital and access to capital markets could be adversely affected. Any inability to obtain adequate financing from debt and equity sources could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo some opportunities, potentially harming our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Economic conditions may impair our customers’ business and markets, which could adversely affect our business operations. As a result of the current economic downturn and macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, the businesses of some of our customers may not generate sufficient revenues. Customers may choose to delay or postpone purchases from us until the economy and their businesses strengthen. Decisions by current or future customers to forego or defer purchases and/or our customers’ inability to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Implementing our acquisition strategy involves risks, and our failure to successfully implement this strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business. One of our key strategies is to grow our business by selectively pursuing acquisitions. Since 1996 we have completed over 30 acquisitions, and we are continuing to actively pursue additional acquisition opportunities, some of which may be material to our business and financial performance. Although we have been successful with this strategy in the past, we may not be able to grow our business in the future through acquisitions for a number of reasons, including: • Acquisition financing not being available on acceptable terms or at all; • Encountering difficulties identifying and executing acquisitions; 12 • Increased competition for targets, which may increase acquisition costs; • Consolidation in our industry reducing the number of acquisition targets; and • Competition laws and regulations preventing us from making certain acquisitions. In addition, there are potential risks associated with growing our business through acquisitions, including the failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of an acquisition. For example, with any past or future acquisition, there is the possibility that: • The business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture; • Technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected; • Management may be distracted from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate acquired businesses; • We may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities; • Unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations and systems; • We may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired business; • We may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer bases; and • Problems may arise in entering new markets in which we may have little or no experience. Failure to continue implementing our acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairment charges. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (Statement No. 142), we are required to test both acquired goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing them over time. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in an entity’s market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors. If the fair market value is less than the book value of goodwill, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of reporting units requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and estimated product life cycles. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of the business, including such factors as industry performance, changes in technology and operating cash flows. As we have grown through acquisitions, we have accumulated $576.9 million of goodwill, and have $50.1 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets, out of total assets of $1.9 billion at October 31, 2008. As a result, the amount of any annual or interim impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. We performed our impairment review for fiscal 2008 as of August 1, 2008, and our Step One analysis indicates that no impairment of goodwill and other indefinite-lived assets exist at any of our reporting units. Our CMC reporting unit’s margin in passing the Step One analysis was not as large as our other reporting units. CMC’s operating performance has been impacted by the effect of the weakening U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar for most of the period we have owned the business. In addition, operating results have been impacted by higher than expected costs related to certain long-term development contracts, including 13 the T-6B. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the U.S. dollar has strengthened against the Canadian dollar and if this relationship continues, CMC’s results of operations will be favorably impacted. We expect that the T-6B development will be successful and that CMC’s operations will continue to improve due to recent contract wins, operational productivity improvements and a continued stronger U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar. It is possible, however, that as a result of events or circumstances, we could conclude at a later date that goodwill of $203.3 million at CMC may be considered impaired. We also may be required to record an earnings charge or incur unanticipated expense if, due to a change in strategy or other reason, we determine the value of other assets has been impaired. These other assets include net deferred income tax assets of $9.4 million, trade names of $22.6 million and intangible assets of $72.1 million. We account for the impairment of long-lived assets to be held and used in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets” (Statement No. 144). Statement No. 144 requires that a long-lived asset to be disposed of be reported at the lower of its carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. An asset (other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets) is considered impaired when estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. In the event the carrying amount of such asset is not deemed recoverable, the asset is adjusted to its estimated fair value. Fair value is generally determined based upon estimated discounted future cash flows. As we have grown through acquisitions, we have accumulated $240.4 million of definite-lived intangible assets. As a result, the amount of any annual or interim impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. The amount of debt we have outstanding, as well as any debt we may incur in the future, could have an adverse effect on our operational and financial flexibility. As of October 31, 2008, we had $401.8 million of debt outstanding, of which $388.2 million is long-term debt. Our primary U.S. dollar credit facility as of October 31, 2008, totaled $200.0 million and is made available through a group of banks. In fiscal 2006, we borrowed U.K. £57.0 million under our credit facility, of which U.K. £21.7 million or $34.9 million was outstanding at October 31, 2008. Up to $50.0 million in letters of credit may be drawn in U.K. pounds or euros in addition to U.S. dollars. The credit agreement is secured by substantially all of the Company’s assets and interest is based on standard inter-bank offering rates. In addition, we have unsecured foreign currency credit facilities that have been extended by foreign banks for up to $27.7 million. Available credit under the above credit facilities was $212.6 million at October 31, 2008, when reduced by outstanding foreign bank borrowings of $5.2 million and letters of credit of $9.9 million. The indentures governing our outstanding $175.0 million 7.75% senior subordinated notes and $175.0 million 6.625% senior notes and other debt agreements limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring additional debt in the future. Our level of debt could have significant consequences to our business, including the following: • Depending on interest rates and debt maturities, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to paying principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for our acquisition strategy, capital expenditures or other purposes; • A significant amount of debt could make us more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions or increases in prevailing interest rates; • Our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes could be impaired; 14 • The increase in the amount of debt we have outstanding increases the risk of non-compliance with some of the covenants in our debt agreements which require us to maintain specified financial ratios; and • We may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may result in a competitive disadvantage. The loss of a significant customer or defense program could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Some of our operations are dependent on a relatively small number of customers and defense programs, which change from time to time. Significant customers in fiscal 2008 included the U.S. Department of Defense, The Boeing Company, General Dynamics, Flame, Rolls Royce, Honeywell, Lockheed Martin and G.E. Aerospace. There can be no assurance that our current significant customers will continue to buy our products at current levels. The loss of a significant customer or the cancellation of orders related to a sole-source defense program could have a material adverse effect on our operating results if we were unable to replace the related sales. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our revenues to decline. Our business is susceptible to seasonality and economic cycles, and as a result, our operating results have fluctuated widely in the past and are likely to continue to do so. Our revenue tends to fluctuate based on a number of factors, including domestic and foreign economic conditions and developments affecting the specific industries and customers we serve. For example, it is possible that the current recession could result in a downturn in commercial aviation and defense. It is also possible that in the future our operating results in a particular quarter or quarters will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing the market price of our common stock, senior subordinated notes or senior notes to decline. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict our future performance. Political and economic changes in foreign countries and markets, including foreign currency fluctuations, may have a material effect on our operating results. Foreign sales were approximately 54% of our total sales in fiscal 2008, and we have manufacturing facilities in a number of foreign countries. A substantial portion of our Avionics & Controls operations are based in Canada and a substantial portion of our Sensors & Systems operations are based in the U.K. and France. We also have manufacturing operations in Mexico and China. Doing business in foreign countries is subject to numerous risks, including political and economic instability, restrictive trade policies of foreign governments, economic conditions in local markets, health concerns, inconsistent product regulation or unexpected changes in regulatory and other legal requirements by foreign agencies or governments, the imposition of product tariffs and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws and differing regulatory requirements. To the extent that foreign sales are transacted in a foreign currency, we are subject to the risk of losses due to foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, we have substantial assets denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar, U.K. pound and euro, that are not offset by liabilities denominated in those foreign currencies. These net foreign currency investments are subject to material changes in the event of fluctuations in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. 15 Among other things, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A downturn in the aircraft market could adversely affect our business. The aerospace industry is cyclical in nature and affected by periodic downturns that are beyond our control. The principal markets for manufacturers of commercial aircraft are the commercial and regional airlines, which are adversely affected by a number of factors, including the current recession, fuel and labor costs, intense price competition, outbreak of infectious disease and terrorist attacks, as well as economic cycles, all of which can be unpredictable and are outside our control. Commercial aircraft production may increase or decrease in response to changes in customer demand caused by the current recession and the perceived safety and ease of airline travel. The military aircraft industry is dependent upon the level of equipment expenditures by the armed forces of countries throughout the world, and especially those of the United States. Although the war on terror has increased the level of equipment expenditures by the U.S. armed forces, this level of spending may not be sustainable in light of government spending priorities by the U.S. In addition, in the past this industry has been adversely affected by a number of factors, including the reduction in military spending since the end of the Cold War. Decreases in military spending could depress demand for military aircraft. Any decrease in demand for new aircraft or use of existing aircraft will likely result in a decrease in demand of our products and services, and correspondingly, our revenues, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively. Our products and services are affected by varying degrees of competition. We compete with other companies and divisions and units of larger companies in most markets we serve, many of which have greater sales volumes or financial, technological or marketing resources than we do. Our principal competitors include: Eaton, ECE, EMS, Gables Engineering, GE Aerospace, Honeywell, Otto Controls, Rockwell Collins, Thales, Ultra Electronics, Telephonics, and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation in our Avionics & Controls segment; Ametek, Meggitt, Deutsch, Tyco, MPC Products, ECE and Goodrich in our Sensors & Systems segment; and Kmass, ULVA, Doncasters, Hitemp, Meggitt (including Dunlop Standard Aerospace Group), Chemring and Parker in our Advanced Materials segment. The principal competitive factors in the commercial markets in which we participate are product performance, service and price. Maintaining product performance requires expenditures in research and development that lead to product improvement and new product introduction. Companies with more substantial financial resources may have a better ability to make such expenditures. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to successfully compete in our markets, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Our backlog is subject to modification or termination, which may reduce our sales in future periods. We currently have a backlog of orders based on our contracts with customers. Under many of our contracts, our customers may unilaterally modify or terminate their orders at any time. In addition, the maximum contract value specified under a government contract awarded to us is not necessarily indicative of the sales that we will realize under that contract. For example, we are a sole-source prime contractor for many different military programs with the U.S. Department of Defense. We depend heavily on the government contracts underlying these programs. Over its lifetime, a program may be implemented by the award of many different individual contracts and subcontracts. The funding of government programs is subject to congressional appropriation. Changes in defense procurement models may make it more difficult for us to successfully bid on projects as a prime contractor and limit sole-source opportunities available to us. In recent years, the trend in combat system design and development appears to be evolving towards the technological integration of various battlefield components, including combat vehicles, command and control network communications, advanced technology artillery systems and robotics. If the U.S. military procurement approach continues to require this kind of overall battlefield combat system integration, we expect to be subject to increased competition from aerospace and defense companies who have significantly greater resources than we do. This trend could create a role for a prime contractor with broader capabilities that would be responsible for integrating various battlefield component systems and potentially eliminating or reducing the role of sole-source providers or prime contractors of component weapon systems. If we were unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, the value of our products could be diminished. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. While we take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property and rely in part on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, we cannot assure that the precautionary steps we have taken will completely protect our intellectual property rights. Because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until either the patent application is published or a patent is issued, we may not be aware of third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our products that may block our use of our intellectual property or may be used in third-party products that compete with our products and processes. In the event a competitor successfully challenges our products, processes, patents or licenses or claims that we have infringed upon their intellectual property, we could incur substantial litigation costs defending against such claims, be required to pay royalties, license fees or other damages or be barred from using the intellectual property at issue, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition to our patent rights, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We may not be able to protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information effectively. We require each of our employees and consultants to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide 17 effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. We may lose money or generate less than expected profits on our fixed-price contracts. Our customers set demanding specifications for product performance, reliability and cost. Some of our government contracts and subcontracts provide for a predetermined, fixed price for the products we make regardless of the costs we incur. Therefore, we must absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts and in projecting the ultimate level of sales that we may achieve. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, integrate technical processes effectively or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability of a fixed-price contract or cause a loss. While we believe that we have recorded adequate provisions in our financial statements for losses on our fixed-price contracts as required under GAAP, we cannot assure that our contract loss provisions will be adequate to cover all actual future losses. Therefore, we may incur losses on fixed-price contracts that we had expected to be profitable, or such contracts may be less profitable than expected. We depend on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key management, each of whom would be difficult to replace. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management personnel. We face competition for management from other companies and organizations. Therefore, we may not be able to retain our existing management personnel or fill new management positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at our existing compensation levels. Although we have entered into change of control agreements with some members of senior management, we do not have employment contracts with our key executives, nor have we purchased “key-person” insurance on the lives of any of our key officers or management personnel to reduce the impact to our company that the loss of any of them would cause. Specifically, the loss of any of our executive officers would disrupt our operations and divert the time and attention of our remaining officers. Additionally, failure to attract and retain highly qualified management personnel would damage our business prospects. The market for our products may be affected by our ability to adapt to technological change. The rapid change of technology is a key feature of all of the markets in which our businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Historically, our technology has been developed through internal research and development expenditures, as well as customer-sponsored research and development programs. There is no guarantee that we will continue to maintain, or benefit from, comparable levels of research and development in the future. In addition, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we develop or that render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Furthermore, our products could become unmarketable if new industry standards emerge. We cannot assure that our existing products will not require significant modifications in the future to remain competitive or that new products we introduce will be accepted by our customers, nor can we assure that we will successfully identify new opportunities and continue to have the needed financial resources to develop new products in a timely or cost-effective manner. 18 Our business is subject to government contracting regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our operating results and prospects. We estimate that approximately 26% of our sales in fiscal 2008 were attributable to contracts in which we were either the prime contractor to, or a subcontractor to a prime contractor to, the U.S. government. As a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. government, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts that affect how we do business with our clients and may impose added costs on our business. For example, these regulations and laws include provisions that contracts we have been awarded are subject to: • Protest or challenge by unsuccessful bidders; and • Unilateral termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements. The accuracy and appropriateness of certain costs and expenses used to substantiate our direct and indirect costs for the U.S. government under both cost-plus and fixed-price contracts are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, an arm of the U.S. Department of Defense. Responding to governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert management attention. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract termination, suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, civil fines and damages, and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A significant portion of our business depends on U.S. government contracts, which contracts are often subject to competitive bidding, and a failure to compete effectively or accurately anticipate the success of future projects could adversely affect our business. We obtain many of our U.S. government contracts through a competitive bidding process that subjects us to risks associated with: • The frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns; • The substantial time and effort, including design, development and marketing activities, required to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; and • The design complexity and rapid rate of technological advancement of defense-related products. In addition, in order to win the award of developmental programs, we must be able to align our research and development and product offerings with the government’s changing concepts of national defense and defense systems. The government’s termination of, or failure to fully fund, one or more of the contracts for our programs would have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, we serve as a subcontractor on several military programs that, in large part, involve the same risks as prime contracts. Overall, we rely on key contracts with U.S. government entities for a significant portion of our sales and business. A substantial reduction in these contracts would materially adversely affect our operating results and financial position. 19 The airline industry is heavily regulated and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer. Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products, as well as regulations regarding the repair and overhaul of aircraft engines. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries. We include, with the replacement parts that we sell to our customers, documentation certifying that each part complies with applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to sell our products, we and the products we manufacture must also be certified by our individual OEM customers. If any of the material authorizations or approvals qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the subject product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future asbestos claims could harm our business. We are subject to potential liabilities relating to certain products we manufactured containing asbestos. To date, our insurance has covered claims against us relating to those products. Commencing November 1, 2003, insurance coverage for asbestos claims has been unavailable. However, we continue to have some insurance coverage for exposure to asbestos contained in our products prior to that date. We continue to manufacture for one customer a product that contains asbestos. We have an agreement with the customer for indemnification for certain losses we may incur as a result of asbestos claims relating to that product, but we cannot assure that this indemnification agreement will fully protect us from losses arising from asbestos claims. To the extent we are not insured or indemnified for losses from asbestos claims relating to our products, asbestos claims could adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability. Our business and our facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and ordinances governing, among other things, the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products. Among these environmental laws are rules by which a current or previous owner or operator of land may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property. In addition, these laws typically impose liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of such 20 substances at the disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. Because we own and operate a number of facilities that use, manufacture, store, handle or arrange for the disposal of various hazardous materials, we may incur costs for investigation, removal and remediation, as well as capital costs, associated with compliance with environmental laws. At the time of the acquisition of Wallop Defence Systems Limited, we and the seller agreed that some environmental remedial activities may need to be carried out and these activities are currently on-going. Under the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, a portion of the costs of any environmental remedial activities will be reimbursed by the seller if the cost is incurred within five years of the consummation of the acquisition. Additionally, at the time of our asset acquisition of the Electronic Warfare Passive Expendables Division of BAE Systems North America, certain environmental remedial activities were required under a Part B Permit issued to the infrared decoy flare facility by the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The Part B Permit was transferred to our subsidiary, Armtec, along with the remedial obligations. Under the terms of the asset purchase agreement, BAE Systems agreed to perform and pay for these remedial obligations at the infrared decoy flare facility up to a maximum amount of $25.0 million. Although environmental costs have not been material in the past, we cannot assure that these matters, or any similar liabilities that arise in the future, will not exceed our resources, nor can we completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual harm caused by our products. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in harm to others or to property. For example, our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that has been designed, manufactured or serviced by us. We may incur significant liability if product liability lawsuits against us are successful. While we believe our current general liability and product liability insurance is adequate to protect us from future product liability claims, we cannot assure that coverage will be adequate to cover all claims that may arise. Additionally, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability not covered by insurance or for which third-party indemnification is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 