Item 1A. Risk Factors The intense competition in our industry could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competition is based largely upon technology, performance, pricing, quality, reliability, distribution and customer support. A number of companies worldwide with significant financial resources or customer relationships compete with us to provide similar products and services, such as Xerox, Pitney Bowes, Global Imaging Systems, Océ Imagistics and Danka. Our competitors may be positioned to offer and perform under more favorable product and service terms, resulting in reduced profitability and loss of market share for us. Some of our suppliers are also our competitors, such as Canon, Ricoh, Konica Minolta and HP, and supply us with the products we sell, service and lease. In addition, we compete against smaller local independent office equipment distributors. Financial pressures faced by our competitors may cause them to engage in uneconomic pricing practices, which could cause the prices that we are able to charge in the future for our products and services to be less than we have historically charged. Our future success is based in large part upon our 10 Table of Contents ability to successfully compete in the markets we currently serve, expand into additional product and services offerings and successfully perform complex Enterprise Services transactions, including hardware and software technology integrations, connectivity service engagements, assessment projects and software solutions. Our failure to do so could lead to a loss of market share, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A deterioration in our relationships with our suppliers or in the financial condition of our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our access to equipment, parts and supplies is dependent upon close relationships with our suppliers and our ability to purchase products from our principal suppliers, including Canon, Ricoh, Konica Minolta, EFI and HP, on competitive terms. We do not enter into long-term supply contracts with these suppliers, and we have no current plans to do so in the future. These suppliers are not required to use us to distribute their equipment and are free to change the prices and other terms at which they sell to us. Any deterioration or change in our relationships with, or in the financial condition of, our significant suppliers, including some of our competitors, could have an adverse impact on our ability to generate equipment sales and to provide maintenance services. If one of these suppliers terminated or significantly curtailed its relationship with us, or if one of these suppliers ceased operations, we would be forced to expand our relationship with other suppliers, seek out new relationships with other suppliers or risk a loss in market share due to diminished product offerings and availability. In addition, as we continue to seek expansion of our products and services portfolio, we are developing relationships with certain software suppliers, including Captaris, eCopy and Kofax. As our relationships with software suppliers become more integral to our development and growth, the termination or significant curtailment of these relationships may force us to seek new relationships with other software suppliers, or pose a risk of loss in market share due to diminished software offerings. Any change in one or more of these suppliers’ willingness or ability to continue to supply us with their products could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our liquidity, financial position and results of operations are dependent on our relationship with GE. During fiscal 2004, we sold certain assets, including facilities, systems and processes relating to our U.S. and Canadian leasing operations, to and entered into a five year program agreement with GE, pursuant to which we designated GE as our preferred lease financing source in the U.S. and Canada. We sold additional assets to GE, namely retained U.S. lease receivables, as of April 1, 2006. We also sold German lease receivables to GE as of June 8, 2006, and entered into the German Program Agreement, pursuant to which we designated GE as our preferred lease financing source in Germany. Prior to our arrangements with GE, a significant portion of our profits were derived from our leasing operations in the U.S. and Canada. Pursuant to the agreements governing our relationship with GE, we are entitled to receive origination and certain other fees and income from sharing of gains on certain lease-end activities with respect to leases purchased or funded by GE under our leasing programs. Our right to receive a portion of these fees, namely the fees for providing preferred services for lease generation in the U.S., which have to date amounted to approximately $50,000 annually, will end as of March 31, 2009, which is the end of the initial five-year term of the U.S. Program Agreement. If we are unable to negotiate a similar preferred fee structure with GE upon the renewal of the term of the U.S. Program Agreement, or if we elect to not renew our U.S. Program Agreement and are unable to arrange an alternative financing arrangement on similar terms, we may be unable to replace those fees at such time. Our ability to generate on-going revenue from our arrangement with GE is dependent upon our success in identifying and securing opportunities for lease financing transactions with our customers. Our failure to secure such opportunities for funding by GE could result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Further, effective management of our program with GE requires that both parties integrate and reconcile complex systems and processes including lease-end management, sharing of residual gains, and other financial arrangements. The inability of either party to successfully do so may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. We may renew our U.S. and Canada lease program agreements with GE at the end of the initial five-year term for a subsequent three- or five-year period, but there are no assurances that the agreements will be extended after the expiration of such subsequent period. If we elect not to renew our program agreements, we may incur certain exit or transition costs that may have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. In addition, GE could terminate the agreements before their expiration for material breach or upon a material adverse 11 Table of Contents change of our company (including an event of default under certain indebtedness of IKON). If GE were to no longer provide financing to our customers, we would likely try to arrange alternative financing arrangements on similar terms, or provide financing ourselves. If we were unable to either arrange financing on similar terms or provide financing ourselves, some of our customers might be unable or unwilling to purchase equipment from us, which could have an adverse effect on revenues. In addition, the early termination or non-extension of our agreements with GE could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. We continue to implement substantial changes to our information systems. These actions could disrupt our business. Our One Platform Conversion to a common enterprise-wide information technology platform and related actions have required us to make substantial modifications to our information technology systems and business processes, including our billing systems, and contributed to certain control deficiencies identified in connection with the Billing Matter described below. Our failure to successfully and timely execute, or any disruption to, our One Platform Conversion could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our system of internal control over financial reporting is currently ineffective due to a material weakness in our billing processes. If we fail to remediate this material weakness or any material weaknesses we may discover in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our business, brand and operating results could be harmed or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reports and to mitigate the risk of fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which may harm our business, brand and operating results. During fiscal 2005, we identified deficiencies in the processes and timeliness by which we issue certain invoices and, as a result, implemented processes designed to fairly present our financial results. Errors resulting from these deficiencies (collectively, the “Billing Matter”) required us to restate certain of our previously issued financial statements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such controls. During fiscal 2005 and 2006, management determined that the Billing Matter constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. However, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in implementation, our business, brand and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. For example, in light of the Billing Matter, we implemented processes and performed additional procedures designed to ensure that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (see Item 9A, “— Controls and Procedures”). Billed revenue, accounts receivable and deferred revenue are adjusted based on estimates derived by a statistically valid analysis of historical data in order to mitigate the financial impact of the Billing Matter. Changes to these estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our failure to improve our operational efficiency could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our ability to improve our profit margins is largely dependent on the success of our initiatives to streamline our infrastructure and improve our operational efficiency. Our initiatives include the One Platform Conversion and 12 Table of Contents billing process improvements to ensure the timeliness and accuracy of our customer invoices. Our failure to implement these initiatives successfully, or the failure of such initiatives to result in improved profitability, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. New technologies may affect our operations, and failures in the transition to new technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business. The document management solutions industry is a rapidly changing environment. If our suppliers fail to anticipate which products or technologies will gain market acceptance, or if we cannot sell such products at competitive prices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. Significant technological changes in our industry may have ramifications that may not be foreseen. We cannot be certain that manufacturers of popular products, some of which are also our competitors, will permit us to market their newly developed products, or that such products will meet our customers’ needs and demands. Additionally, because some of our principal competitors design and manufacture their own products, rather than relying on third parties, those competitors may have a competitive advantage over us. In addition, new products containing new technology may replace or compete with existing products placed by us or may be sold through other channels of distribution. Our failure to comply with any material provisions of our various borrowing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. We entered into an amended and restated $200,000 secured credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with a group of lenders effective June 28, 2006. The Credit Facility, which matures on June 28, 2011, provides the availability of revolving loans, with certain sub-limits, and provides support for letters of credit. The amount of credit available under the Credit Facility is reduced by open letters of credit. The amount available under the Credit Facility for borrowings was $170,080 at September 30, 2006. The amount available under the Credit Facility for additional letters of credit was $70,080 at September 30, 2006. The Credit Facility is secured by our domestic accounts receivable and domestic inventory, the stock of our first-tier domestic subsidiaries, 65% of the stock of our first-tier foreign subsidiaries and all of our intangible assets. Under the terms of the Credit Facility, we are permitted to repurchase shares in an aggregate amount not to exceed (a) $100,000 over the remaining term of the Credit Facility, plus (b) 50% of net income (as defined in the Credit Facility) and (c) an additional aggregate amount of $75,000, as long as we maintain a proforma Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of no greater than two times at the end of any fiscal quarter. The Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on certain fundamental core business changes, investments and acquisitions, mergers, certain transactions with affiliates, creations of liens, asset transfers, payments of dividends, intercompany loans and certain restricted payments, including share repurchases. The Credit Facility contains certain financial covenants relating to: (i) our corporate leverage ratio; (ii) our consolidated interest coverage ratio; (iii) limitations on our capital expenditures; and (iv) limitations on additional indebtedness and liens. The indenture governing our outstanding 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015 (the “2015 Notes”) contains similar covenants. Failure to comply with any material provision of the Credit Facility or the 2015 Notes could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Added risks are associated with our international operations. We have international operations in Canada, Mexico and Western Europe. Approximately 17% of our revenues for fiscal 2006 were derived from our international operations, and approximately 78% of those revenues were derived from Canada and the United Kingdom. Our future revenues, costs of operations and net income could be adversely affected by a number of factors related to our international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country’s political condition, trade protection measures, licensing and other legal requirements and local tax issues. For example, significant currency fluctuations in the Euro, British Pound or Canadian Dollar versus the U.S. Dollar could lead to lower reported consolidated results of operations due to the translation of these currencies. 13 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments (No response to this item is required.) 