Item 1A. Risk Factors The intense competition in our industry could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competition is based largely upon technology, performance, pricing, quality, reliability, distribution, and customer support. A number of companies worldwide with significant financial resources or customer relationships compete with us to provide similar products and services, such as Xerox, Pitney Bowes, Océ Imagistics and Danka. Our competitors may be positioned to offer and perform under more favorable product and service terms, resulting in reduced profitability and loss of market share for us. Some of our suppliers are also our competitors, such as Canon, Ricoh, Konica Minolta and HP, and supply us with the products we sell, service and lease. In addition, we compete against smaller local independent office equipment distributors. Financial pressures faced by our competitors may cause them to engage in uneconomic pricing practices, which could cause the prices that we are able to charge in the future for our products and services to be less than we have historically charged. Our future success is based in large part upon our ability to successfully compete in the markets we currently serve, expand into additional product and services offerings and successfully perform complex Professional Services transactions, including hardware and software technology integrations, 10 Table of Contents connectivity service engagements, assessment projects and software solutions. Our failure to do so could lead to a loss of market share, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A deterioration in our relationships with our suppliers or in the financial condition of our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our access to equipment, parts and supplies is dependent upon close relationships with our suppliers and our ability to purchase products from our principal suppliers, including Canon, Ricoh, Konica Minolta and HP, on competitive terms. We do not enter into long-term supply contracts with these suppliers, and we have no current plans to do so in the future. These suppliers are not required to use us to distribute their equipment and may change the prices and other terms at which they sell to us, whether as a result of demand, currency or otherwise. In addition, some of our suppliers, including Canon and HP, retain discretion as to our continued access to parts and supplies following the termination of our contracts with such suppliers, which could affect our ability to make such parts and supplies available to certain customers. Any deterioration or change in our relationships with, or in the financial condition of, our significant suppliers, including some of our competitors, could have an adverse impact on our ability to generate equipment sales and to provide maintenance services. If one of these suppliers terminated or significantly curtailed its relationship with us, or if one of these suppliers ceased operations, we would be forced to expand our relationship with other suppliers, seek out new relationships with other suppliers or risk a loss in market share due to diminished product offerings and availability. In addition, as we continue to seek expansion of our products and services portfolio, we are developing relationships with certain software suppliers, including Captaris, eCopy, and Kofax. As our relationships with software suppliers become more integral to our development and growth, the termination or significant curtailment of these relationships may force us to seek new relationships with other software suppliers, or pose a risk of loss in market share due to diminished software offerings. Any change in one or more of these suppliers’ willingness or ability to continue to supply us with their products could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our liquidity, financial position and results of operations are dependent on our relationship with GE. During fiscal 2004, we sold certain assets, including facilities, systems and processes relating to our U.S. and Canadian leasing operations, to GE and entered into a five year program agreement with GE, pursuant to which we designated GE as our preferred lease financing source in the U.S. and Canada. We sold additional assets to GE, namely retained U.S. lease receivables, as of April 1, 2006. We also sold German lease receivables to GE as of June 8, 2006, and entered into the German Program Agreement, pursuant to which we designated GE as our preferred lease financing source in Germany. On June 26, 2007, we extended the initial term of our U.S. Program Agreement through fiscal 2014, and amended certain provisions relating to origination, volume and sharing fees. Prior to our arrangements with GE, a significant portion of our profits were derived from our leasing operations in the U.S. and Canada. Pursuant to the agreements governing our relationship with GE, we are entitled to receive origination and certain other fees from sharing of gains on certain lease-end activities with respect to leases purchased or funded by GE under our leasing programs. Our ability to generate on-going revenue from our arrangement with GE is dependent upon our success in identifying and securing opportunities for lease financing transactions with our customers. Our failure to secure such opportunities for funding by GE could result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Further, effective management of our programs with GE requires that both parties integrate and reconcile complex systems and processes including lease-end management, sharing of residual gains, and other financial arrangements. The inability of either party to successfully do so may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. We are permitted to renew our Canada lease program agreement with GE at the end of the initial five-year term in 2009 for a subsequent three- or five-year period, but there are no assurances that the U.S., Canada or German program agreements will be extended after the expiration of their respective terms. If any of these program agreements are not extended, we may incur certain exit or transition costs that may have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. In addition, GE could terminate the program agreements before their expiration for material breach or upon a material adverse change of the Company (including an event of default under certain indebtedness of IKON). If GE were to no longer provide financing to our customers, we would likely try to arrange alternative financing arrangements on similar terms, or provide financing ourselves. If we were 11 Table of Contents unable to either arrange financing on similar terms or provide financing ourselves, some of our customers might be unable or unwilling to purchase equipment from us, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the early termination or non-extension of our agreements with GE could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our inability to successfully implement initiatives related to our strategic priorities may adversely affect our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our ability to execute on our strategic priorities of growth, operational leverage, and capital strategy is largely dependent on the successful implementation of our initiatives to: (a) grow revenue through an expanded product portfolio, which includes an emphasis on color, an enhanced customer coverage model, continued growth in our Managed and Professional Services businesses, stabilization of our Customer Service and Supplies revenue, and geographic expansion; (b) maintain operational leverage and realize efficiencies through improved processes and productivity, including our One Platform Conversion, (c) deploy a capital strategy consisting of share repurchases and dividends and debt repayments; and (d) develop employees and promote diversity, organizational vitality and training. The success of these initiatives is largely dependent upon: • customer demand for our products, services, solutions and marketing programs; • our ability to meet or exceed customer expectations relating to the delivery and performance of our products, services and solutions; • our supplier relationships, including product pricing and promotional support; • our ability to continue to identify and effectively remediate process or structural inefficiencies; • our ability to maintain adequate levels of liquidity to finance our strategic priorities; and • our ability to execute effectively, and to attract, manage and retain a motivated and productive workforce in a competitive industry and a challenging corporate governance environment impacted by investor activism. Our failure or inability to implement these initiatives successfully, or the failure of such initiatives to result in improved profitability, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. We continue to implement substantial changes to our information systems. These actions could disrupt our business. Our One Platform Conversion to a common enterprise-wide information technology platform and related actions have required us to make substantial modifications to our information technology systems and business processes, including our billing systems. Our failure to successfully and timely execute, or any disruption to, our One Platform Conversion could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. New technologies may affect our operations, and failures in the transition to new technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business. The document management solutions industry is a rapidly changing environment. If our suppliers fail to anticipate which products or technologies will gain market acceptance, or if we cannot sell such products at competitive prices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. Significant technological changes in our industry may have ramifications that may not be foreseen. We cannot be certain that manufacturers of popular products, some of which are also our competitors, will permit us to market their newly developed products, or that such products will meet our customers’ needs and demands. Additionally, because some of our principal competitors design and manufacture their own products, rather than relying on third parties, those competitors may have a competitive advantage over us. In addition, new products containing new technology may replace or compete with existing products placed by us or may be sold through other channels of distribution. 12 Table of Contents Added risks are associated with our international operations. We have international operations in Canada, Mexico and Western Europe. Approximately 18% of our revenues for fiscal 2007 were derived from our international operations, and approximately 77% of those revenues were derived from Canada and the United Kingdom. Our future revenues, costs of operations and net income could be adversely affected by a number of factors related to our international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country’s political condition, trade protection measures, licensing and other legal requirements and local tax issues. For example, significant currency fluctuations in the Euro, British Pound or Canadian Dollar versus the U.S. Dollar could lead to lower reported consolidated results of operations due to the translation of these currencies. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our business, brand and operating results could be harmed or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reports and to mitigate the risk of fraud. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which may harm our business, brand and operating results. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such controls. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. However, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in implementation, our business, brand and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, which may cause us to be in violation of our covenants and in default under our current debt obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments (No response to this item is required.) 