ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risk factors presented below may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results, financial position and cash flows. The categories listed below are for information purposes only and do not signify that any risk should or should not be included in one or more of the other categories, or that any category or risk is more significant than any other risk. In addition to the risk factors presented below, changes in general economic conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, demographic trends and consumer confidence in the economy, which affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions and retail purchases in general, may have a material adverse effect on us. Our actual results could vary significantly from any results expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission depending upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties: I. STRATEGIC Our plans depend significantly on initiatives designed to improve the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, as well as increase revenues, and failure to fully achieve or sustain these plans could adversely affect our results of operations. We have had, and expect to continue to have, initiatives related to cost efficiencies and revenue generation in various stages of testing, evaluation and implementation, upon which we expect to rely to improve our results of operations and financial condition. Many of these initiatives are inherently risky and uncertain in their application to our business in general, even when tested successfully on a more limited scale. It is possible that successful testing can result partially from resources and attention that cannot be duplicated in broader implementation. Testing and general implementation also can be affected by other risk factors described herein that reduce the results expected. Successful system-wide implementation across hundreds of restaurants and involving tens of thousands of employees relies on consistency of training, stability of workforce, ease of execution and the absence of offsetting factors that can adversely influence results. Failure to achieve successful implementation of our initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Our success depends on consumer acceptance of our menu offerings, food products, prices, atmosphere, convenience and service procedures. Our success in creating demand for our restaurant menu offerings and food products is dependent on our ability to continue to accurately predict consumer dining and taste preferences and adapt our menu and food products to trends in food consumption. If customer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriately priced menu offerings and food products, as well as convenience and service procedures, it could have a material adverse effect on demand for our menu offerings and food products, which would result in lost customers and a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to provide outstanding customer service, convenience and to keep the atmosphere of our two restaurant segments differentiated from our competitors, and relevant and appealing to our customers. If we change a restaurant concept or customer service technique, we may lose customers who do not prefer the changed concept or customer service technique, and we may not be able to attract a sufficient new customer base to produce the revenue needed to make the concept or technique profitable. Our long-term growth strategy depends on opening new restaurants. Our ability to expand our restaurant base is influenced by factors beyond our control, which may further slow restaurant expansion and impair our growth strategy. We are pursuing a moderate and disciplined long-term growth strategy which, to be successful, will depend in large part on our ability to open new restaurants and operate those restaurants on a profitable basis. Currently, we do not believe that our average new restaurant volumes generate a level of return on our development costs that justifies significant expansion of Mimi’s, and we are just returning to new restaurant growth for Bob Evans Restaurants. We do not intend to substantially increase the construction of new restaurants until the economy improves and we are confident that we have adequately improved restaurant level economics by increasing our sales, lowering our labor, purchasing and construction costs and increasing our margins and profitability. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to achieve our expansion goals or operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. One of our biggest challenges in meeting our long-term growth objectives will be to locate and secure an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. We have experienced delays in opening some of our restaurants and may experience delays in the future. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our planned long-term growth strategy. The success of any restaurant expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • our ability to generate a suitable level of return on the money we invest in new restaurants; • the availability and hiring of qualified personnel; • our ability to appropriately train employees and staff the restaurants; • reliance on management to identify available and suitable restaurant sites; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable purchase or lease terms for restaurant sites; • timely development of new restaurants, including the availability of construction materials and labor; • management and control of construction and development costs of new restaurants; • our ability to manage construction delays related to the opening of any facility; • our ability to manage the local, state or other regulatory, zoning and licensing processes in a timely manner, or at all; • cost and availability of capital; • competition in our markets; • consumer acceptance of our restaurants in new markets; and • general economic conditions. 19 In addition, we have and plan on entering new markets in which we have no operating experience. These new markets may have different demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause the new restaurants to be less successful in these new markets than in our existing markets. Our long-term growth strategy will strain our management, financial and other resources. For instance, our existing restaurant management systems and procedures, financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources may be inadequate to support our planned expansion. Also, we may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that the planned expansion will impose on our infrastructure and other resources. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and locate, hire, train and retain management and operating personnel. We may experience higher-than-anticipated costs associated with the opening of new restaurants or with the closing, relocating and remodeling of existing restaurants, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our sales and expenses can be impacted significantly by the number and timing of the opening of new restaurants and the closing, relocating and remodeling of existing restaurants. We incur substantial pre-opening expenses each time we open a new restaurant and other expenses when we close, relocate or remodel existing restaurants. The expenses of opening, closing, relocating or remodeling any of our restaurants may be higher than anticipated. An increase in such expenses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our restaurant business is dependent upon satisfactory customer service, and we may have difficulty hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to deliver appropriate service. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers who can meet the high standards necessary to deliver the levels of food quality and service on which our restaurant segments are based. The short supply of qualified individuals in some areas could strain our restaurant operations, delay new restaurant openings or require us to increase wages to attract desired individuals, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Also, high rates of employee turnover could have a negative impact on food quality and customer service, which would result in an adverse effect on our restaurant business and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant and food products industries. The restaurant industry is highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, population trends, traffic patterns and weather conditions, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits, many of which are beyond our control. Key competitive factors in the restaurant industry include the quality and value of the menu items offered, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, advertising, name brand awareness and image and restaurant locations. Many of our competitors are well-established national, regional or local chains, and some have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages. We compete with many restaurant operators and other retail establishments for site locations and restaurant employees. We also compete with grocery store chains that offer cooked and prepared products for the consumer. We expect competition to intensify as our competitors expand operations in our markets and quick-service restaurant chains expand their breakfast offerings. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The food products business is also highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits. Key competitive factors in the industry include the quality, flavor and value of the food products offered, advertising and name brand awareness. Our competitors include well-established national, regional and local producers and wholesalers of similar products, many of whom have substantially greater name recognition and 20 financial, marketing and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages. We are facing increased competition from private label sausage products and side dishes. We expect competition to intensify in our food products segment as other food companies introduce refrigerated side dishes to compete with our successful mashed potatoes and macaroni and cheese products. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Our marketing and branding strategies may not be successful, which could negatively affect our business. Our marketing and branding strategies continue to evolve to maximize our appeal to customers and compete effectively. We do not have any assurance that our marketing strategies will be successful. If new advertising, modified branding, and other marketing programs are not successful, we may not generate the level of restaurant and food products sales we expect and the expense associated with these programs will negatively affect our financial results. Moreover, many of our competitors have successfully used national marketing strategies, including network and cable television advertising in the past, and we may not be able to successfully compete against those established programs. Our failure to achieve and maintain positive same-store sales for an extended period of time would likely have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Same-store sales are a key measure of the financial health of our company, as well as our individual restaurants. Same-store sales growth may be affected by a number of factors, including: • local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits; • gasoline prices; • customer trends; • intense competition in the restaurant business; • customer satisfaction; • extraordinary events such as weather or natural disasters; and • pricing pressure. The growth of our Foods segment’s sales and profits is dependent upon our ability to expand into existing and new markets. The successful growth of our Foods segment business depends on our ability to add new retail customers, as well as expand the number of products sold through existing retail customers by expanding the number of our items they offer for sale. The expansion of the Foods segment business depends on our ability to obtain and retain large-account customers, such as grocery store chains and warehouse customers. Our failure to obtain and retain new large-account customers or maintain our relationships with existing large-account customers could have a material adverse effect on the Foods segments’ business and results of operations. Our Food segment’s business is dependent upon a limited number of suppliers for the production of a significant number of items and relies upon a relatively small number of customers for a large percentage of its sales. Our Foods segment’s business is dependent upon a limited number of suppliers, and we have not identified secondary suppliers for food products manufactured in our plants. Our prolonged inability to provide products to fill orders in a timely manner would have an adverse effect on both our restaurant segments’ and the Foods segment’s businesses and our results of operations. Our Foods segment’s business also relies upon a relatively small number of customers for a large percentage of its sales. Our inability to maintain strong relationships with our key customers could result in a loss of business, which would have a material adverse effect on our Food products business and our results of operations. 21 The financial performance and results of operations of the Foods segment could be adversely affected by availability of and price we pay for sows. Sows are the most important raw material used to produce our pork sausage products in our food products business. We procure live sows at prevailing market prices from terminals, local auctions, country markets and corporate and family farms in many states and Canada. The live sow market is highly cyclical in terms of the number of sows available and the current market price. A significant contraction in the live sow market began during fiscal 2010, and we believe that the sow herd is at its lowest level since the early 1900’s. The live sow market is also dependent upon supply and demand for pork products, as well as corn and soybean meal prices (the major food supply for sows), weather and farmers’ access to capital. We believe our Foods segment will continue to be challenged by sow costs that are significantly higher than historical averages, as well as limited supplies of sows. Higher sow costs adversely affect the Foods segment’s profitability, and we cannot guaranty that we will be able to pass along any portion to our consumers in a timely manner or at all. Because many of our restaurants are concentrated in certain geographic areas, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations by regional economic conditions and events. The concentration of many of our existing and planned restaurants in particular regions of the United States could affect our operating results in a number of ways. For example, our results of operations may be adversely affected by economic conditions in that region, the local labor market and regional competition. Also, adverse publicity relating to our restaurants in a region in which they are concentrated could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our overall revenue than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly dispersed. A majority of our Bob Evans Restaurants are located in Ohio and other parts of the Midwest, which makes us particularly sensitive to economic conditions, natural disasters, severe weather and other events in this region. We believe same-store sales at our Bob Evans Restaurants are particularly sensitive to economic conditions in the Midwest, which has been hit particularly hard by the downturn in the United States’ economy, the troubled auto industry, increased unemployment and lower home values. Nearly 250 Bob Evans Restaurants are located in Michigan and Ohio where the impact of job losses in the automotive industry (manufacturers and suppliers) could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Also, because a significant percentage of our Mimi’s are located in California, we are also particularly sensitive to events and developments in that state, such as earthquakes or other natural disasters and energy shortages. We are particularly concerned about Mimi’s sales and profit trends in California, Florida, Arizona and Nevada. These states accounted for approximately 62.8 percent of Mimi’s sales in fiscal 2012 and have been hit particularly hard by the downturn in the United States’ economy, sub-prime mortgage issues, increased unemployment and lower home values. Adverse weather conditions could harm our sales and profits. Weather conditions can adversely impact sales at our restaurants. Adverse weather conditions, such as snow and ice in the Midwest that keep customers from dining out or going to grocery stores, result in lost opportunities for our restaurants and food products division. Adverse weather conditions may also cause shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh meat and produce to our restaurants and hamper the distribution of our Foods segment’s products to grocery stores. Our ability to align our corporate culture to adapt to evolving business changes and requirements could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. Our results may be adversely affected if we are unable to execute on the key elements of our strategic plan to improve our delivery execution, resource utilization, and decision making processes. As with any organization with over 40,000 employees, effecting significant changes in operational regimes and corporate culture is a challenge. If we are unable to change and instill within our entire organization the appropriate operational regimes of our new corporate culture, we may not be able to gain the anticipated improvements and increase our profitability. The implementation of our strategic plan will require, among other things, expending capital, developing and adopting new technologies, recruiting talented employees and changing our corporate culture. If 22 we are unable to successfully execute any or all of the initiatives of our strategic plan, our revenues, operating results and profitability may be adversely affected. II. OPERATIONS Our business could suffer if we are the subject of negative publicity or litigation regarding allegations of food-related contaminations or illnesses. As a business with two restaurant segments and a Foods segment, we can be adversely affected by complaints or litigation from consumers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, adverse health effects (including obesity) or operational concerns. Our reputation and business can also be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from such complaints or litigation. Food-related contaminations and illnesses may be caused by a variety of food borne pathogens, such as e-coli or salmonella, from a variety of illnesses transmitted by restaurant workers, such as hepatitis A, and from contamination of food by foreign substances. Contamination and food borne illness incidents could also be caused by food suppliers and distributors. As a result, we cannot control all of the potential sources of contamination or illness that can be contained in or transmitted from food. If any person becomes injured or ill, or alleges becoming injured or ill, as a result of eating our food, we may temporarily close some restaurants or a Foods segment plant, which would decrease our revenues, and we may be liable for damages, be subject to governmental regulatory action and/or receive adverse publicity, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable, any of which could have long-lasting, negative effects on our reputation, financial position and results of operations. Unfavorable publicity, or a failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could harm our reputation and adversely impact our guest counts and sales. The good reputation of our restaurant and foods brands is a key factor in the success of our business. Actual or alleged incidents at any of our restaurants or plants could result in negative publicity that could harm our brands. Given the extensive use of the Internet and various forms of social net working websites, as well as our own website, unfavorable publicity can spread world-wide in only hours. Even incidents occurring at restaurants operated by our competitors or in the supply chain generally could result in negative publicity that could harm the restaurant and food processing industry overall and, indirectly, our own brands. Negative publicity may result from allegations of illegal, unfair or inconsistent employment practices, guest discrimination, illness, injury, or any of the other matters discussed above that could give rise to litigation. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a limited number of our restaurants or plants, or only to a single restaurant or plant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Negative publicity also may result from health concerns including food safety and flu outbreaks, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products, environmental disasters, crime incidents, data privacy breaches, scandals involving our employees, or operational problems at our restaurants, all of which could make our brands less appealing to our guests and customers, and negatively impact our guest counts and sales. Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of our brands, or our failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We are a highly automated business and rely on our production facilities and our network infrastructure and our Web site for our development, marketing, operational, support, hosted services and sales (including on-line ordering) activities. A disruption, infiltration or failure of these systems or third party hosted services in the event of a major natural disaster, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data. In the past, severe weather conditions and natural disasters have caused power outages and other circumstances which have adversely affected the operations of our corporate office in Columbus, Ohio, individual food manufacturing plants, and restaurants. 23 Our Foods segment operates six manufacturing plants. If we were forced to close or delay production at one or more of these plants due to a natural disaster or significant labor issue, we may be unable to increase production at our other plants in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, the two restaurant segments rely on a single site prep kitchen for preparation of a substantial amount of their muffin mixes, dressings, sauces and soups. Any temporary or permanent disruption in the operation of this facility would affect the ability of the two restaurant segments, and especially Mimi’s, to serve the full range of menu offerings or require us to obtain these items from alternative sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of our data center or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have recently deployed a more robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events. We have not experienced material cyber-incidents to date, however the occurrence and effects of cyber-incidents may remain undetected for an extended period. We do not carry network-liability insurance concerning cyber-attacks. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly regional and area managers and restaurant general managers. Competition for high-quality employees is intense. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or key team members or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could harm our business. Our restaurant business is dependent on timely delivery of fresh ingredients by our suppliers and distributors. Our restaurant operations are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand, the economy and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. If the variety or quality of the food we offer declines due to the lack or lower quality of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients, customer traffic may decline and negatively affect our sales. We have contracted with third-party distributors for the delivery of food and other products to our restaurants. If these contracts were suddenly and unexpectedly terminated, supply costs could increase and disruptions in distribution could occur during the transition to other third-party distributors. The price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities used by our restaurants could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our business is subject to the general risks of inflation. Our results of operations depend significantly on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food, ingredients, utilities, and other related costs over which we may have little control. Fluctuations in economic conditions, weather and demand, as well as natural disasters can adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the ingredients and products that we buy. We require fresh produce, dairy products and meat, and therefore are subject to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply of these food products could develop. Our operating margins are subject to changes in the price and availability of food commodities. For example, the profitability of our food products segment is sensitive to sow costs. The effect of, introduction of, or changes to tariffs or exchange rates on imported retail products or food products could increase our costs and possibly affect the supply of those products. Our operating margins are also affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on which our restaurants depend for much of their energy supply. Our inability to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, because we provide a moderately priced product, we may not seek or be able to pass along price increases to our guests sufficient to offset cost increases. 24 Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu and food products prices to offset increased costs could result in a decline in margins. We utilize price increases for menu offerings and food products to help offset cost increases, including increased costs for wholesale food, raw materials, distribution, minimum wages, employee benefits, construction, fuel, utility, and other costs. During fiscal 2012, we implemented menu price increases at Bob Evans Restaurants to help offset operating and supply cost increases. We did not implement price increases at Mimi’s Café. Further federal legislation to increase the minimum wage as well as the tip credit wage we pay to certain staff members receiving guest gratuities is probable, and there may be similar increases implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and prices to sufficiently account for increased costs, especially further minimum wage increases at the federal and/or state level. Also, because we offer moderately priced food, we may not be able to, or we may choose not to, pass along price increases to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We outsource certain business processes and product manufacture to third-party vendors that subject us to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs. Some of our business processes and the manufacture of certain products are currently outsourced to third parties. Such processes include distribution of food and retail products to our store locations, manufacture of certain products, credit card authorization and processing, gift card tracking and authorization, health care and workers’ compensation insurance claims processing and externally hosted business software applications. We cannot ensure that all providers of outsourced services are observing proper internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities, and there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. III. COMPLIANCE The restaurant and food products industries are heavily regulated, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be more costly than we expect. The restaurant industry and the food products industry are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards, federal and state laws governing our relationships with employees (including the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and applicable requirements concerning minimum wage, overtime, healthcare coverage, family leave, medical privacy, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and immigration status), federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990. Compliance with these legal requirements may be more costly than we expect. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant and/or the continued operation of a particular restaurant or food products manufacturing facility. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could also result in fines or legal actions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Significant legal and regulatory issues affecting our business include: • employment laws, including minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, meal and rest break requirements, paid “sick days” or other paid time off, unemployment tax rates; discrimination laws, workers’ compensation rates and citizenship and immigration requirements; • national health care reform legislation that passed the U.S. Congress in March 2010 and its provisions that will require labeling on restaurant menus, menu boards, and drive-through displays; • permit, licensing and other regulatory requirements for the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; • health, safety and fire regulations; • zoning, land and environmental regulations; 25 • a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials; • sales tax; • new and changing laws and regulations relating to gift cards; • food safety regulations governing the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States and Canada; • laws governing public access and employment for people with disabilities; and • state “dram shop” statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (“Health Care Reform Acts”). Although we cannot predict with certainty the financial and operational impacts the new law will have on us, we expect that our expenses will increase over the long term as a result of the new law. Any such increases could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, the new law requires restaurant companies such as ours to disclose calorie information on their menus. We do not expect to incur any material costs from compliance with these provisions of the law, but cannot anticipate the changes in guest behavior that could result from the implementation of these provisions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or results of operations. Legislation and regulations requiring the display and provision of nutritional information for our menu offerings in our restaurants could increase our operating costs, affect consumer preferences, increase the likelihood of litigation, and negatively impact our results of operations. We are concerned about regulations requiring restaurants to provide calorie and other nutritional information on menus and/or in our restaurants. Mimi’s located in California are subject to a state-wide menu labeling law that became effective on July 1, 2009, and our Bob Evans Restaurant located in Montgomery County, Maryland is subject to a menu-labeling law that became effective on July 1, 2010. The Health Care Reform Acts contains provisions that require restaurants with 20 or more locations to post calorie information on menus and additional nutritional information in writing at the restaurant. The FDA released Proposed Regulations implementing this legislation on April 6, 2011. The FDA was expected to release Final Regulations prior to December 31, 2011, but did not, and no release date is currently set. The Final Regulations will specify when the FDA will commence enforcement of the Final Regulations which is expected to be one year after publication. Although the new federal legislation preempts the legislation already enacted in California, Montgomery County, Maryland, and other state and local jurisdictions (e.g., Maine, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Oregon, New York City and Philadelphia), some of these jurisdictions are requiring compliance with their regulations until the FDA begins enforcing the federal regulations. Menu labeling regulations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition due to the potential impact on our sales and profitability if the disclosures change guest preferences and menu mix, as well as increased operating costs incurred to comply with these regulations. Moreover, we could become subject to litigation arising from our nutritional disclosures, such as claims that our nutritional disclosures are inaccurate or that our menu offerings are harmful to human health. Health concerns and government regulations relating to the consumption of trans-fats, pork, beef, chicken and other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Consumer food preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of various types of food, such as trans-fats, pork, beef and chicken. Negative publicity concerning trans-fats related to fried foods and other items, “mad cow” and “foot-and-mouth” disease relating to the consumption of beef and other meat products, “H1N1” or “swine flu” related to pork products, “avian flu” related to poultry products and the 26 publication of government, academic or industry findings about health concerns relating to menu items served by any of our restaurants could also affect consumer food preferences. These types of health concerns and negative publicity concerning our food products may adversely affect the demand for our food and negatively impact our business and results of operations. Additionally, some government authorities are increasing regulations regarding trans-fats and sodium. We have largely eliminated artificial trans-fat from our restaurant menu offerings, and these regulations may require us to limit sodium amounts in our menu offerings and/or food products in the future. These regulations may require us to switch to higher cost ingredients and may hinder our ability to operate in certain markets. Our business could suffer if we are the subject of increased litigation regarding personal injuries suffered on our premises, discrimination, harassment or other labor matters. Employee and customer claims against us based on, among other things, personal injury, discrimination, harassment, wage and hour disputes or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources from operating our businesses. Restaurant companies have been the target of class actions and other lawsuits alleging, among other things, violation of federal and state law. Like many employers, Mimi’s has been faced with allegations of purported class-wide wage and hour violations in California, and we have taken charges related to the settlement of these cases. An unfavorable verdict or a significant settlement in a future class-action lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Compliance with new and changing regulations related to corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses and pose challenges for our management team. New as well as changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) and the rules and regulations promulgated and to be promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market, have created uncertainty for public companies and increased our costs and time that our Board of Directors and management must devote to complying with these rules and regulations. Our Board of Directors and management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for corporate governance for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities. Changes in accounting standards issued by the FASB or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The FASB, the AICPA and other accounting standard-setting bodies may periodically issue changes to, interpretations of or guidance with respect to GAAP. The adoption of such guidance may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. IV. OTHER The global economic downturn adversely impacted our business and financial results in fiscal 2012, and uncertainty regarding the economic recovery could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. The restaurant and food products industry is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending. The global economic downturn and uncertainty regarding the economic recovery has reduced consumer confidence to historic lows impacting the public’s ability and desire to spend discretionary dollars as a result of job losses, home foreclosures, significantly reduced home values, investment losses in the financial markets, personal bankruptcies and reduced access to credit, resulting in lower levels of guest traffic in our restaurants and sales of our food products. When gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy costs increase, and credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs increase with rising interest rates, our guests and customers may have less disposable income and reduce the frequency with which they dine out or purchase our products. This is particularly the case with casual dining concepts like Mimi’s because consumers may choose more inexpensive 27 restaurants (such as quick-service restaurants or fast casual dining) when eating outside the home. If this difficult economic situation continues for a prolonged period of time or deepens in magnitude, our business and results of operation could be materially adversely affected, and our customers may continue to remain apprehensive about the economy and maintain or further reduce their already lowered level of discretionary spending. This will result in spreading fixed costs across a lower level of sales, and will, in turn cause downward pressure on our profitability. This could result in restaurant or plant closures and asset impairment charges. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business. The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee or company data, our reputation could be damaged and we could experience lost sales, fines or lawsuits. Inappropriate use of social media vehicles presents new risks. The inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications from the improper collection of personal information. Negative posts or comments about us on any social networking web site could seriously damage our reputation. In addition, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and achieve this information. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to a variety of other factors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: • fluctuations in food and commodity prices, including sow costs; • the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; • restaurant operating costs for our newly opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation; • labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel; • profitability of our restaurants, especially in new markets; • impairments of long-term assets; • trends in same-store sales; • adverse weather conditions; • special items, such as property sales; • local and national economic conditions, including gasoline and other energy costs; and • changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions. Our two restaurant segments and our Foods segment businesses are also subject to seasonal fluctuations. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results, same-store sales and comparable food products sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any fiscal year. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to the factors discussed above, this could result in a decline in our stock price. 28 Many factors, including those over which we have no control, affect the trading price of our stock. Factors such as reports on the economy or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report relates directly to our business, could have an impact of the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by stock market conditions, including price and trading fluctuations on the NASDAQ Stock Market, the New York Stock Exchange or other exchanges. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our common stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders, as well as non-operating initiatives such as share repurchase programs. Any failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance, particularly with respect to comparable restaurant sales, revenues, operating margins and earnings per share, would likely cause our stock price to decline. Disruptions in the financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit and consumer spending patterns. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt and to obtain financing for general corporate purposes will depend on our operating and financial performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil in recent months, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States and other governments. These events may adversely impact the availability of credit already arranged, and the availability and cost of credit in the future. There can be no assurances that we will be able to arrange credit on terms we believe are acceptable or that permit us to finance our business with historical margins. These events have also adversely affected the U.S. and world economy, and any new or continuing disruptions in the financial markets may also adversely affect the U.S. and world economy, which could negatively impact consumer spending patterns. There can be no assurances that various U.S. and world government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets in the near future will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity or the availability of credit. There can be no assurances as to how or when this unprecedented period of turmoil will be resolved. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely affect us. Our credit facility and the agreements governing our senior notes contain various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to: incur liens on our assets; merge or consolidate with other entities; transfer or sell a substantial part of our assets; substantially change the nature of our business; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into transactions with affiliates. The agreements governing our senior notes contain additional restrictive covenants, including financial maintenance requirements relating to our: consolidated net worth; ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated capitalization; ratio of consolidated income available for fixed charges to fixed charges; and levels of priority indebtedness. The covenants contained in our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger, acquisition or other corporate opportunities, to fund our business operations or to successfully implement our current and future operating strategies. A breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. In addition, the agreements governing our credit facility and senior notes require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control (such as uncertainties related to the current economy), and we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants at all times in the future. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt instruments, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts 29 outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot be sure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand. We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Our primary trademarks, “Bob Evans,” “Mimi’s Cafe” and “Owens,” are key components of our operating and marketing strategies. As a result, we devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal costs. In addition, third parties might claim that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current insurance loss estimates may not be adequate and, if claims exceed such estimates, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are self-insured for a significant portion of our current exposures related to our workers’ compensation, general liabilities and employee health insurance programs. Although we base our loss estimates on actuarial data, as well as on our historical trends, we may not be able to accurately predict the number or value of the claims that occur. In particular, health insurance costs have increased significantly over the last 10 years. In the event that our actual liability exceeds our estimate for any given period, or if we are unable to control rapidly increasing health care costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our level of profitability. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Delaware law, may have anti-takeover effects. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to us could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any “interested shareholder” (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. In addition, our senior management is entitled to certain payments and rights upon a change in control of our Company. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of a proxy fight and the actions of activist shareholders. If we became engaged in a proxy contest with an activist shareholder in the future, our business could be adversely affected because: responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can disrupt our operations, be costly and time-consuming, and divert the attention of our management and employees; perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and, if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively implement our business strategy and create additional value for our shareholders. If the Mimi’s Segments actual performance does not meet the forecasts contained in our five-year strategic plan, we may need to take a non-cash impairment charge related to the intangible assets associated with the Mimi’s concept. At April 27, 2012, we had intangible assets totaling $39.9 million on our balance sheet related to our acquisition of the Mimi’s segment. Specifically, this amount includes $34.0 million for the unamortized “Mimi’s 30 Café” trade name and $5.9 million for the Mimi’s restaurant concept, which is amortized over a 15-year life. We are required to perform annual impairment tests of our intangible assets (or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the asset might be impaired). Impairment testing of the Mimi’s Café trade name requires that we determine its fair value. If the fair value of the asset is less than its $34.0 million carrying value, an impairment charge would be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. The impairment test for the $5.9 million restaurant concept asset involves a three-step process, whereby we first consider whether indicators of impairment are present. If indicators are present, the second step is to compare the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the asset to its carrying value. In the event that the undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, the third step is to determine the fair value of the restaurant concept. If the fair value is less than its carrying value, an impairment charge would be recognized for the difference. We use the relief-from-royalty method, which is an income approach to valuation, to determine the fair values of the trade name and restaurant concept intangible assets. Using the relief-from-royalty method, the fair values are impacted by projected sales, including plans for new restaurant development and same-store sales trends. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we completed our annual impairment tests of intangible assets. The assumptions we used for projected sales were based on our current five-year development and financial forecasts for the Mimi’s segment. Using these assumptions, the fair values of the “Mimi’s Café” trade name and restaurant concept exceeded their carrying values, and as a result, no impairment charges were recorded. Although we believe our current plans and forecasts to be achievable, there is the potential that our actual future results could differ from these forecasts, especially given Mimi’s prolonged negative same-store sales trend. While the company identified certain underperforming restaurants that required an impairment charge during fiscal 2012, overall year-to-date results for the Mimi’s segment continues to meet performance expectations. Accordingly, no impairment indicators were identified related to the Mimi’s trade name or restaurant concept as of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. If the Mimi’s segment performance falls below expectations in future periods, impairment charges related to the “Mimi’s Café” trade name and restaurant concept could arise. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 