Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors presented below may affect our future operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition to the risk factors presented below, changes in general economic conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, demographic trends and consumer confidence in the economy, which affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions and retail purchases in general, may have a material impact on us. Our actual results could vary significantly from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements depending upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties: Our business could suffer if we are the subject of negative publicity or litigation regarding allegations of food-related illnesses. As a restaurant and food products business, we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from consumers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Food-related illnesses may be caused by a variety of food-borne pathogens, such as e-coli or salmonella, and from a variety of illnesses transmitted by restaurant workers, such as hepatitis. As a result, we cannot control all of the potential sources of illness that can be transmitted from food. If any person becomes ill, or alleges becoming ill, as a result of eating our food, we may be liable for damages, be subject to governmental regulatory action and/or receive adverse publicity, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable; all of which could have long-lasting, negative effects on our financial position or results of operations. Our failure to achieve and maintain positive same-store sales for an extended period of time would likely have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Same-store sales are a key measure of the financial health of our company, as well as individual restaurants. Same-store sales growth may be affected by a number of factors, including: • local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits; • gasoline prices; • customer trends; • intense competition in the restaurant business; • customer satisfaction; • extraordinary events such as weather or natural disasters; and • pricing pressure. Same-store sales at Mimi’s Café decreased 2.4 percent during fiscal 2008. Bob Evans Restaurants’ same-store sales increased 1.8 percent in fiscal 2008. However, Bob Evans Restaurants experienced a decline in same-store sales in fiscal 2006 and increased only 0.1 percent in fiscal 2007. Our failure to maintain positive same-store sales for extended periods of time for either of our restaurant concepts would have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain economic and business factors specific to the restaurant industry and certain general economic factors including energy prices and interest rates that are largely out of our control may adversely affect our results of operations. The results of our restaurant concepts depend upon a number of industry-specific and general economic factors, many of which are beyond our control. The restaurant industry is affected by changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences. Recessionary economic cycles, a protracted economic slowdown, a worsening economy, increased energy prices, rising interest rates or other industry-wide cost pressures could affect consumer behavior and decrease spending for restaurant dining occasions, leading to a decline in our sales and earnings. When gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy costs increase, and credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs increase with rising interest rates, our 15 guests may have less disposable income and reduce the frequency with which they dine out. This is particularly the case with casual dining concepts like Mimi’s Café because consumers may choose more inexpensive restaurants (such as quick-service restaurants or fast casual dining) when eating outside the home. We are especially concerned about Mimi’s Café’s sales and profit trends in California, Florida, Arizona and Nevada. These states account for approximately 73 percent of Mimi’s Café’s core sales in fiscal 2008 and they have been hit particularly hard by the downturn in the United States’ economy, sub-prime mortgage issues and lower home values. These trends may affect our future development plans for Mimi’s Café. In turn, this may adversely impact the valuations of the intangible assets (including goodwill) associated with Mimi’s Café. Unfavorable changes in the economic factors described above could increase our costs, reduce traffic in some or all of our restaurants or impose practical limits on pricing, any of which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. If Mimi’s Café’s actual performance does not meet the forecasts contained in our five-year strategic plan, we may need to take a non-cash impairment charge for the goodwill and/or intangible assets associated with the Mimi’s Café concept. At the end of 2008, we had goodwill totaling $57.7 million and other intangible assets of $55.0 million on our balance sheet primarily as a result of our acquisition of Mimi’s Café. We are required to perform annual impairment tests of our goodwill and intangible assets (or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the asset might be impaired). The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step of the process consists of estimating the fair value of Mimi’s Café based on a discounted cash flow analysis or other appropriate model using revenue and profit forecasts, and comparing that estimated fair value with the carrying value of the reporting unit, which includes goodwill. Factors used in the impairment tests include, but are not limited to, our plans for new store development, same-store sales trends, future operations, brand initiatives, recent operating results and projected sales and cash flows. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of goodwill impairment by determining an “implied fair value” of goodwill. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed our annual impairment tests of goodwill and intangible assets. The assumptions we used for projected sales and operating results are based on our current five-year development and financial forecasts for Mimi’s Café. Using these assumptions, the fair values of our intangible assets significantly exceeded their carrying values. Additionally, the first step of the goodwill impairment test resulted in an estimated fair value for Mimi’s Café that exceeded the carrying amount. Therefore, it was not necessary to complete the second step of the goodwill impairment test in fiscal 2008 and an impairment charge was not recorded. However, while we believe our current plans and forecasts to be achievable, there is the potential that our actual future results could differ from these forecasts, especially given the current negative same-store sales trend that Mimi’s Café is experiencing. If we see that Mimi’s Café’s results are not turning around as planned, it is likely that our next goodwill impairment test could require us to advance to the second step of the test. The results of the second step of the goodwill impairment test, if performed, could potentially lead to a noncash goodwill impairment charge of an amount up to its full carrying value of $56.2 million. The price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities used by our restaurants or merchandise sold in our retail merchandise areas could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We are subject to the general risks of inflation; however, our results of operations depend significantly on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food, ingredients, utilities, retail merchandise, and other related costs over which we may have little control. Fluctuations in economic conditions, weather and demand as well as natural disasters can adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the ingredients and products that we buy. We require fresh produce, dairy products and meat, and therefore are subject to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply of these food products could develop. Our operating margins are subject to changes in the price and availability of food commodities. For example, the recent focus on ethanol as a fuel, as well as the emergence of China as a major consumer of food products, has placed tremendous demands (with attendant supply and price pressures) for dairy products as well as corn, which in turn has increased feed costs for poultry and livestock. The effect of, introduction of, or changes to tariffs or exchange rates on imported retail 16 products or food products could increase our costs and possibly affect the supply of those products. Our operating margins are also affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on which the restaurants depend for much of their energy supply. Our inability to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, because we provide a moderately priced product, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our guests sufficient to offset cost increases. A decline in general economic conditions could materially, adversely affect our financial results. Consumer spending habits, including discretionary spending on dining out at restaurants such as ours, are affected by: • prevailing economic conditions, such as the housing market; • energy costs, especially gasoline prices; • levels of employment; • salaries and wage rates; • consumer confidence; and • consumer perception of economic conditions. Continued weakness or uncertainty of the United States economy as a result of reactions to increasing gasoline prices, inflation, unemployment, war, terrorist activity or other unforeseen events could materially, adversely affect consumer spending habits, which would likely result in lower restaurant sales. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant and food products industries. The restaurant industry is highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, population trends, traffic patterns and weather conditions, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits, many of which are beyond our control. Key competitive factors in the industry are the quality and value of the menu items offered, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, advertising, name brand awareness and image, and restaurant locations. Many of our competitors are well-established national, regional or local chains, and some have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may give them competitive advantages. We also compete with many restaurant operators and other retail establishments for site locations and restaurant employees. We expect competition to intensify as our competitors expand operations in our markets and quick-service restaurant chains expand their breakfast offerings. This could materially, adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. The food products business is also highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits. Key competitive factors in the industry are the quality and value of the food products offered, flavor, advertising and name brand awareness. Our competitors include well-established national, regional and local producers and wholesalers of similar products, many of whom have substantially greater name recognition and financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may give them competitive advantages. We expect competition to intensify in our food products segment as other food companies introduce refrigerated side dishes to compete with our successful mashed potatoes and macaroni and cheese products. Our growth strategy depends on opening new restaurants. Our ability to expand our restaurant base is influenced by factors beyond our control, which may further slow restaurant expansion and impair our growth strategy. We are pursuing a moderate and disciplined growth strategy which, to be successful, will depend in large part on our ability to open new restaurants and to operate those restaurants on a profitable basis. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to achieve our expansion goals or operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. One of our biggest challenges in meeting our growth objectives will be to locate and secure an adequate supply of 17 suitable new restaurant sites. We have experienced delays in opening some of our restaurants and may experience delays in the future. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The success of our planned expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • the availability and hiring of qualified personnel; • reliance on management to identify available and suitable restaurant sites; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable purchase or lease terms for restaurant sites; • timely development of new restaurants, including the availability of construction materials and labor; • management of construction and development costs of new restaurants; • securing required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; • cost and availability of capital; • competition in our markets; and • general economic conditions. In addition, we contemplate entering new markets in which we have no operating experience. These new markets may have different demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause the new restaurants to be less successful in these new markets than in our existing markets. Our growth strategy may strain our management, financial and other resources, especially with respect to Mimi’s Café. For instance, our existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources may be inadequate to support our planned expansion of new restaurants. Also, we may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that the planned expansion will impose on our infrastructure and other resources. Our food products business is dependent upon a single manufacturing facility for the production of a significant number of items. Currently, our Bidwell, Ohio, plant manufactures the majority of our fully cooked sausage and meat products, and our Richardson, Texas, plant only has limited capacity to produce these products. If a natural disaster or significant labor issue affected our ability to operate our Bidwell plant, we may not be able to produce fully cooked products needed to supply our Bob Evans Restaurants and fulfill food products customers’ orders in a timely manner. We also have not identified secondary suppliers for food products manufactured in our plants. Our prolonged inability to provide products to fill orders in a timely manner would have an adverse effect on both our restaurant and food products businesses and our results of operations. Our success depends on consumer acceptance of our menu offerings, food products, prices, atmosphere and service procedures. Our success in creating demand for our restaurant menu offerings and food products is dependent on our ability to continue to accurately predict consumer dining and taste preferences and adapt our menu and food products to trends in food consumption. If customer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriately priced menu offerings and food products, it could materially affect demand for our menu offerings and food products, which would result in lost customers and an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to keep the atmosphere of our two restaurant concepts relevant and to provide satisfactory customer service. If we change a restaurant concept or customer service technique, we may lose customers who do not prefer the changed concept or customer service technique, and we may not be able to attract a sufficient new customer base to produce the revenue needed to make the concept profitable. 18 A privacy breach could adversely affect our business. The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data, our reputation could be damaged and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. Our restaurant business is dependent upon satisfactory customer service, and we may have difficulty hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to deliver appropriate service. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers who can meet the high standards necessary to deliver the levels of food quality and service on which our restaurant concepts are based. The short supply of qualified individuals in some areas could strain our restaurant operations, delay new restaurant openings or require us to increase wages to attract desired individuals, which could materially, adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Also, high rates of employee turnover could have a negative impact on food quality and customer service, which would result in an adverse effect on our restaurant business and results of operations. Because many of our restaurants are concentrated in certain geographic areas, our results of operations could be materially, adversely affected by regional economic conditions and events. The concentration of many of our existing and planned restaurants in particular regions could affect our operating results in a number of ways. For example, our results of operations may be adversely affected by economic conditions in that region, the local labor market and regional competition. Also, adverse publicity relating to our restaurants in a region in which they are concentrated could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our overall revenue than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly dispersed. A majority of our Bob Evans Restaurants are located in Ohio and other parts of the Midwest, which makes us particularly sensitive to economic conditions, natural disasters, severe weather and other events in this region. We believe same-store sales at our Bob Evans Restaurants are particularly sensitive to economic conditions in the Midwest. Also, given that almost half of our Mimi’s Cafés are located in California, we are also particularly sensitive to events and developments in that state, such as earthquakes or other natural disasters and energy shortages. We are concerned about Mimi’s Café’s sales and profit trends in California, Florida, Arizona and Nevada. These states account for approximately 73 percent of Mimi’s Café’s core sales in fiscal 2008 and they have been hit particularly hard by the downturn in the United States’ economy, sub-prime mortgage issues and lower home values. These trends may affect our future development plans for Mimi’s Café. Expanding our restaurant base by opening new restaurants in existing markets could reduce the business of our existing restaurants. Our growth strategy includes opening restaurants in markets in which we already have existing restaurants. We may be unable to attract enough customers to the new restaurants for them to operate at acceptable profit levels. Even if we are able to attract enough customers to the new restaurants to operate them at acceptable profit levels, those customers may be former customers of one of our existing restaurants in that market and the opening of new restaurants in the existing market could reduce the profit levels of our existing restaurants in that market. Adverse weather conditions could harm our sales. Weather, which is unpredictable, can adversely impact sales at our restaurants. Adverse weather conditions, such as snow and ice in the Midwest that keep customers from dining out, result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. Adverse weather conditions may also cause shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh meat and produce to our restaurants and hamper the distribution of our food products to grocery stores. 19 The restaurant and food products industries are heavily regulated, and compliance may be more costly than we expect. The restaurant industry and the food products industry are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements may be more costly than we expect. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant and/or the continued operation of a particular restaurant or food products manufacturing facility. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could also result in fines or legal actions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Significant legal and regulatory issues affecting our business include: • employment laws, including minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, meal and rest break requirements, paid “sick days” or other time off, health insurance, unemployment tax rates, discrimination laws, workers’ compensation rates, and citizenship and immigration requirements; • permit requirements for the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; • health, safety and fire regulations; • zoning, land and environmental regulations; • sales tax; • food safety regulations governing the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States; • laws governing public access and employment for people with disabilities; and • state “dram shop” statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. We are also concerned about proposed state and local regulations that would require restaurants to provide nutritional information on menus and/or require that restaurants label menus with the country of origin of meal ingredients. None of our restaurants are currently subject to these regulations. However, the imposition of any such regulation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could suffer if we are the subject of increased litigation regarding personal injuries suffered on our premises, discrimination, harassment or other labor matters. Employee and customer claims against us based on, among other things, personal injury, discrimination, harassment, wage and hour disputes or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources from operating our businesses. For example, in fiscal 2006, we took a charge of approximately $0.9 million in connection with the settlement of a class action brought against Mimi’s Café that alleged, among other things, that non-exempt employees were not provided proper meal and rest breaks under California law. A significant increase in the number of these claims or an increase in the number of successful claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu and food products prices to offset increased costs could result in a decline in margins. We utilize price increases for menu offerings and food products to help offset cost increases, including increased costs for wholesale food, raw materials, distribution, minimum wages, employee benefits, construction, fuel, utility, inflation and other costs. During fiscal 2008, we implemented menu price increases at a significant number of Bob Evans Restaurants and Mimi’s Cafés to help offset substantial minimum wage increases at the federal level and in many of the states in which we operate, including Ohio and California. Our food products business is also sensitive to hog costs. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and prices to sufficiently account for increased costs, especially further minimum wage increases at the federal and/or state level. Also, because we offer moderately priced food, we may not be able to, or may choose not to, pass along price increases to our customers, which could materially, adversely affect our business and results of operations. 20 We are dependent on timely delivery of fresh ingredients by our suppliers. Our restaurant operations are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand, the economy and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. If the variety or quality of our food products declines due to the lack or lower quality of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients, customer traffic may decline and negatively affect our sales. We have contracted with three third-party distributors for the delivery of food and other products to our restaurants. If any of these contracts were suddenly and unexpectedly terminated, supply costs could increase and disruptions in distribution could occur during the transition to other third-party distributors. Also, Mimi’s Cafés rely on a single site prep kitchen for preparation of substantially all of the concept’s signature muffin mixes, dressings, sauces and soups. Any temporary or permanent disruption in the operation of this facility would affect the ability of Mimi’s Cafés to serve the full range of menu offerings or require us to obtain these items from alternative sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The growth of our food products sales and profits is dependent upon our ability to expand into existing and new markets. The successful growth of our food products business depends on our ability to expand our reach into existing and new markets through both the retention of new customers and the introduction of new products. The expansion of our food products business depends on our ability to obtain and retain large-account customers, such as grocery store chains and warehouse customers, and our ability to enter into long-term contracts with those customers. Our failure to contract with new large-account customers or maintain our contractual relationships with existing large-account customers would materially, adversely affect our food products business and results of operations. Health concerns relating to the consumption of trans-fats, beef, chicken, pork and other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Consumer food preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of various types of food, such as trans-fats, beef, chicken and pork. Negative publicity concerning trans-fats related to fried foods and other items, “mad cow” and “foot-and-mouth” disease relating to the consumption of beef and other meat products, “avian flu” related to poultry products and the publication of government, academic or industry findings about health concerns relating to menu items served by any of our restaurants could also affect consumer food preferences. These types of health concerns and negative publicity concerning our food products may adversely affect the demand for our food and negatively impact our business and results of operations. Additionally, some government authorities are increasing regulations regarding trans-fats, which may require us to limit or eliminate trans-fats from our menu offerings and/or food products. This may require us to switch to higher cost ingredients and may hinder our ability to operate in certain markets. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to a variety of other factors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: • fluctuations in food and commodity prices; • the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; • restaurant operating costs for our newly opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation than thereafter; • labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel; • profitability of our restaurants, especially in new markets; • trends in same-store sales; 21 • adverse weather conditions; • special items, such as property sales; • local and national economic conditions, such as gasoline and other energy costs; and • changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions. Our restaurant and food products businesses are also subject to minor seasonal fluctuations. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results, same-store sales and comparable food products sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any fiscal year. Our current insurance loss estimates may not be adequate and, if claims exceed such estimates, our profitability may be materially, adversely affected. We are self-insured for a significant portion of our current exposures related to our workers’ compensation, general liabilities and employee health insurance programs. Although we base our loss estimates on actuarial data, as well as on our historical trends, we may not be able to accurately predict the number or value of the claims that occur. In particular, health insurance costs have increased significantly over the last 10 years. In the event that our actual liability exceeds our estimate for any given period or if we are unable to control rapidly increasing health care costs, our level of profitability could be materially, adversely affected. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand. We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Our primary trademarks, Bob Evans, Mimi’s Café and Owens, are key components of our operating and marketing strategies. As a result, we devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be enough to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal costs. Further, third parties might claim that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items in the future or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 