ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.The risk factors presented below may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results, financial position and cash flows. The categories listed below are for information purposes only and do not signify that any risk should or should not be included in one or more of the other categories, or that any category or risk is more significant than any other risk. In addition to the risk factors presented below, changes in general economic conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, demographic trends and consumer confidence in the economy, which affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions and retail purchases in general, may have a material adverse effect on us. Our actual results could vary significantly from any results expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") depending upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties:I. STRATEGICOur failure to achieve and maintain positive same-store sales for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.Same-store sales are a key measure of the financial health of our company, as well as our individual restaurants. Same-store sales growth may be affected by a number of factors, including:•local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits;•gasoline prices;•customer trends;•intense competition in the restaurant business;•customer satisfaction;•extraordinary events such as weather or natural disasters; and•pricing pressure.15We depend on consumer acceptance of our menu offerings, food products, prices, atmosphere, convenience and service procedures.Our success in creating demand for our restaurant menu offerings and food products is dependent on our ability to continue to accurately predict consumer dining and taste preferences and adapt our menu and food products to trends in food consumption. If customer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriately priced menu offerings and food products, as well as convenience and service procedures, it could have a material adverse effect on demand for our menu offerings and food products, which could result in lost customers and a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to provide outstanding customer service and convenience and to keep the atmosphere of our Bob Evans Restaurants segment differentiated from our competitors, and relevant and appealing to our customers. If we change our restaurant concept or customer service technique, we may lose customers who do not prefer the changed concept or customer service technique, and we may not be able to attract a sufficient new customer base to produce the revenue needed to make the concept or technique profitable.We depend on initiatives designed to improve the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, as well as increase revenues, and failure to fully achieve or sustain these initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations.We have had, and expect to continue to have, initiatives related to cost efficiencies and revenue generation in various stages of testing, evaluation and implementation, upon which we expect to rely on to improve our results of operations and financial condition. Many of these initiatives are inherently risky and uncertain in their application to our business in general, even when tested successfully on a more limited scale. It is possible that successful testing can result partially from resources and attention that cannot be duplicated in broader implementation. Testing and general implementation also can be affected by other risk factors described herein that reduce the results expected. Successful system-wide implementation of these initiatives across hundreds of restaurants and involving tens of thousands of employees relies on consistency of training, stability of workforce, ease of execution, changes in market conditions and the absence of offsetting factors that can adversely influence results. Failure to achieve successful implementation of our initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations.Our long-term growth strategy depends on opening new restaurants. Our ability to expand our restaurant base is influenced by factors beyond our control, which may slow restaurant expansion and impair our growth strategy.We are pursuing a disciplined long-term growth strategy which, to be successful, will depend in large part on our ability to open new restaurants and operate those restaurants on a profitable basis. In fiscal 2015 we intend to increase the construction of new restaurants and plan on opening up to eight new restaurants and licensing up to ten Bob Evans Express locations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to achieve our expansion goals or operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. One of our biggest challenges in meeting our long-term growth objectives will be to locate and secure an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. We have experienced delays in opening some of our restaurants and may experience delays in the future. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our planned long-term growth strategy.The success of any restaurant expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:•our ability to generate a suitable level of return on the money we invest in new restaurants;•the availability and hiring of qualified personnel;•our ability to appropriately train employees and staff the restaurants;•our ability to identify available and suitable restaurant sites, including appropriate locations for Bob Evans Express;•competition for restaurant sites;•negotiation of favorable purchase or lease terms for restaurant sites;•negotiation of favorable license and royalty terms for Bob Evans Express sites;•timely development of new restaurants, including the availability of construction materials and labor;•management and control of construction and development costs of new restaurants;•our ability to manage construction delays related to the opening of any facility;•our ability to manage the local, state or other regulatory, zoning and licensing processes in a timely manner, or at all;16•cost and availability of capital;•competition in our markets;•consumer acceptance of our restaurants in new markets; and•general economic conditions.In addition, we plan to continue entering new markets in which we have no operating experience. These new markets may have different demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns compared to our existing markets, which may cause the new restaurants to be less successful in these new markets than in our existing markets.Our long-term growth strategy may strain our management, financial and other resources. For instance, our existing restaurant management systems and procedures, financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources may be inadequate to support our planned expansion. Also, we may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that the planned expansion will impose on our infrastructure and other resources. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and locate, hire, train and retain management and operating personnel.We may experience higher-than-anticipated costs associated with the opening of new restaurants or with the closing, relocating or remodeling of existing restaurants, which may adversely affect our results of operations.Our sales and expenses can be impacted significantly by the number and timing of the opening of new restaurants and the closing, relocating and remodeling of existing restaurants. We incur substantial preopening expenses each time we open a new restaurant and other expenses when we close, relocate or remodel existing restaurants. The expenses of opening, closing, relocating or remodeling any of our restaurants may be higher than anticipated. An increase in such expenses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Our restaurant business is dependent upon satisfactory customer service, and we may have difficulty hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to deliver appropriate service.Our restaurant business depends in part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers who can meet the high standards necessary to deliver the levels of food quality and service on which our restaurant segment is based upon. The short supply of qualified individuals in some areas could strain our restaurant operations, delay new restaurant openings or require us to increase wages to attract desired individuals, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Also, high rates of employee turnover could have a negative impact on food quality, recruiting and training costs, and customer service, which would result in an adverse effect on our restaurant business and results of operations.We depend on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant and food products industries.The restaurant industry is highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, population trends, traffic patterns and weather conditions, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits, many of which are beyond our control. Key competitive factors in the restaurant industry include the quality and value of the menu items offered, food preparation and consistency of the preparation from restaurant to restaurant, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, advertising, name brand awareness and image and restaurant locations. Many of our competitors are well-established national, regional or local chains, and some have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages. We compete with many restaurant operators and other retail establishments for site locations and restaurant employees. We also compete with grocery store chains that offer cooked and prepared products for the consumer. We expect competition to intensify as our competitors expand operations in our markets and quick-service restaurant chains expand their breakfast offerings. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.The food products industry is also highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits. Key competitive factors in the industry include the quality, flavor and value of the food products offered, advertising and name brand awareness. Our competitors include well-established national, regional and local producers and wholesalers of similar products, many of whom have substantially greater name recognition and financial, marketing and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages. We are facing increased competition from private label sausage products and side dishes. We expect competition to intensify in our BEF Foods segment as other food companies introduce refrigerated side dishes to compete with 17our successful potato and pasta side dishes. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.Our marketing and branding strategies may not be successful, which could negatively affect our business.Our marketing and branding strategies continue to evolve to maximize our appeal to customers and compete effectively. We do not have any assurance that our marketing strategies will be successful. If new advertising, modified branding, and other marketing programs are not successful, we may not generate the level of restaurant and food products sales we expect and the expenses associated with these programs will negatively affect our financial results. Moreover, many of our competitors have successfully used national marketing strategies, including network and cable television advertising in the past, and we may not be able to successfully compete against those established programs.The growth of our BEF Foods segment’s sales and profits is dependent upon our ability to expand into existing and new markets.The successful growth of our BEF Foods segment depends on our ability to add new retail customers, as well as expand the number of products sold through existing retail customers by expanding the number of our items they offer for sale and product placement within the refrigerated meat and the frozen products departments. The expansion of the BEF Foods business segment depends on our ability to obtain and retain large-account customers, such as grocery store chains and warehouse customers. Our failure to obtain and retain new large-account customers or maintain our relationships with existing large-account customers could have a material adverse effect on the BEF Foods segments’ business and results of operations.The financial performance and results of operations of the BEF Foods segment could be adversely affected by availability of and price we pay for sows and pork trimmings.Sows are the most important raw material used to produce our pork sausage products in our BEF Foods segment. We procure live sows at prevailing market prices from terminals, local auctions, country markets and corporate and family farms in many states and Canada. The live sow market is highly volatile in terms of the number of sows available and the current market price. The live sow market is dependent upon supply and demand for pork products, as well as corn and soybean meal prices (the major food supply for sows), weather and farmers’ access to capital. We also use pork trimmings and the pork trimmings market is also highly volatile in terms of availability and the current market price.We believe our BEF Foods segment will continue to be challenged by sow and pork trimmings costs that are significantly higher than historical averages. Higher sow and pork trimmings costs adversely affect the BEF Foods segment’s profitability, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to pass along any portion of the increased costs to our consumers in a timely manner or at all.Our BEF Foods segment’s business is dependent upon a limited number of suppliers for the production of a significant number of items and relies upon a relatively small number of customers for a large percentage of its sales.Our BEF Foods segment’s business is dependent upon a limited number of suppliers, and we have not always identified secondary suppliers for food products manufactured in our plants, or secondary suppliers with sufficient capacity. Our prolonged inability to provide products to fill orders in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on both our Bob Evans Restaurants and the BEF Foods segments’ businesses and our results of operations. Our BEF Foods segment’s business also relies upon a relatively small number of customers for a large percentage of its sales. Our inability to maintain strong relationships with our key customers and meet their requests could result in a loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our BEF Foods business and our results of operations.Our BEF Foods business has undergone and will continue to undergo major efficiency changes in the form of acquiring other businesses, closing inefficient facilities and by expanding the remaining facilities, but our failure to successfully integrate an acquired business or run our expanded facilities efficiently could adversely affect our company.We regularly evaluate expansion opportunities such as acquiring other businesses or taking actions to make our remaining facilities operate more efficiently. Plant expansion involves risks such as additional debt, integrating the acquired business or new equipment into our operations. In evaluating expansion opportunities, we carefully consider the effect that financing the opportunity will have on our financial condition. Successful expansion depends on our ability to integrate the acquired business or efficiently run the remodeled plant. If we are unable to effectively implement expansion opportunities, we could adversely affect our operations, financial results and prospects.18Our actual operating and financial results in any given period may differ from guidance we provide to the public, including our most recent public guidance. From time to time, in press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and other contexts, we have provided guidance to the public regarding current business conditions and our expectations for our future financial results. We expect that we will provide guidance periodically in the future. Our guidance is based upon a number of assumptions, expectations and estimates that are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. In providing our guidance, we also make various assumptions with respect to our future business decisions, some of which will change. Our actual financial results, therefore, may vary from our guidance due to our inability to meet the assumptions upon which our guidance is based and the impact on our business of the various risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors and in our public filings with the SEC. Variances between our actual results and our guidance may be material. To the extent that our actual financial results do not meet or exceed our guidance, the trading prices of our securities may be materially adversely affected.Because many of our restaurants are concentrated in certain geographic areas, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations by regional economic conditions and events.The concentration of many of our existing and planned restaurants in particular regions of the United States could affect our operating results in a number of ways. For example, our results of operations may be adversely affected by economic conditions in that region, the local labor market and regional competition. Also, adverse publicity relating to our restaurants in a region in which they are concentrated could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our overall revenue than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly dispersed.A majority of our Bob Evans Restaurants are located in Ohio and other parts of the Midwest, which makes us particularly sensitive to economic conditions, natural disasters, severe weather and other events in this region. Our business is subject to seasonal adverse weather conditions (especially between October and March) that may at times affect regions in which our restaurants are located, regions that produce raw ingredients for our restaurants, or locations of our distribution network. As a result our quarterly and yearly results have varied in the past, and we believe that our quarterly operating results will vary in the future. In addition, adverse weather conditions could cause us to experience closures, repair and restoration costs, food spoilage, and other significant reopening costs as well as increased food costs and delayed supply shipments, any of which would adversely affect our business. Additionally, during periods of extreme temperatures (either hot or cold) or precipitation, many individuals choose to stay indoors. This impacts transaction counts in our restaurants and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We believe same-store sales at our Bob Evans Restaurants are particularly sensitive to economic conditions in the Midwest, which has been hit particularly hard by the downturn in the United States’ economy, the troubled auto industry, increased unemployment and lower home values. We have 242 Bob Evans Restaurants located in Michigan and Ohio where the impact of job loss in the automotive industry (manufacturers and suppliers) could have a material adverse effect on our sales.Our ability to align our corporate culture to adapt to evolving business changes and requirements could have a material adverse effect on us.Our results may be adversely affected if we are unable to execute on the key elements of our strategic plan to improve our delivery execution, resource utilization, and decision making processes. As with any organization with over 34,000 employees, effecting significant changes in operational regimes and corporate culture is a challenge. If we are unable to change and instill within our entire organization the appropriate operational regimes of our corporate culture, we may not be able to gain the anticipated improvements and increase our profitability. The implementation of our strategic plan will require, among other things, expending capital, developing and adopting new technologies, recruiting talented employees and changing our corporate culture. If we are unable to successfully execute any or all of the initiatives of our strategic plan, our revenues, operating results and profitability may be adversely affected.II. OPERATIONSOur business could suffer if we are the subject of negative publicity or litigation regarding allegations of food-related contaminations or illnesses.As a business with a restaurant segment and a food production segment, we can be adversely affected by complaints or litigation from consumers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, adverse health effects (including obesity) or operational concerns. Our reputation and business can also be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from such complaints or litigation. Food-related contaminations and illnesses may be caused by a variety of food-borne pathogens, such as e-coli or salmonella, from a variety of illnesses transmitted by restaurant workers, such as hepatitis A, and from contamination of food 19by foreign substances. Contamination and food-borne illness incidents could also be caused by food suppliers and distributors. As a result, we cannot control all of the potential sources of contamination or illness that can be contained in or transmitted from food. If any person becomes injured or ill, or alleges becoming injured or ill, as a result of eating our food, we may temporarily close some restaurants or a BEF Foods segment plant, which would decrease our revenues, and we may be liable for damages, be subject to governmental regulatory action and/or receive adverse publicity, regardless of whether we are at fault, any of which could have long-lasting, negative effects on our reputation, financial position and results of operations.Unfavorable publicity, or a failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could harm our reputation and adversely impact our guest counts and sales.The good reputation of our restaurant and foods brands is a key factor in the success of our business. Actual or alleged incidents at any of our restaurants or plants could result in negative publicity that could harm our brands. Given the extensive use of the Internet and various forms of social networking Web sites, as well as our own Web site, unfavorable publicity can spread world-wide in only hours. Even incidents occurring at restaurants operated by our competitors or in the supply chain generally could result in negative publicity that could harm the restaurant and food processing industry overall and, indirectly, our own brands. Negative publicity may result from allegations of illegal, unfair or inconsistent employment practices, guest discrimination, illness, injury, or any of the other matters discussed above that could give rise to litigation. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a limited number of our restaurants or plants, or only to a single restaurant or plant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Negative publicity also may result from health concerns including food safety and flu outbreaks, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products, environmental disasters, crime incidents, data privacy breaches, scandals involving our employees, or operational problems at our restaurants or plants, all of which could make our brands less appealing to our guests and customers, and negatively impact our guest counts and sales.Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of our brands, or our failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could have a material adverse effect on our business.Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.We are a highly automated business and rely on our production facilities and our network infrastructure and our Web site for our development, marketing, operational, support, hosted services and sales (including online ordering) activities. A disruption, infiltration or failure of these systems or third-party hosted services in the event of a major natural disaster, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data. Many of our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are centralized at one Ohio location. We have disaster recovery procedures and business continuity plans in place to address most events of a crisis nature, including tornadoes and other natural disasters, and back up and off-site locations for recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information. However, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recovery plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal communication and operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and exposure to administrative and other legal claims.Our BEF Foods segment operates four manufacturing plants. If we were forced to close or delay production at one or more of these plants due to a natural disaster or significant labor issue, we may be unable to increase production at our other plants in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of our data center or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have deployed a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events.We rely heavily on information technology and any material failure, interruption, or security breach in our systems could adversely affect our business.We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations, including for the order and delivery from distributors, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, gift and loyalty cards, online business, and various other processes and transactions, including the storage of employee and customer information. Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution, and sale of our products depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of our 20information technology systems to process these transactions, summarize results and manage and report on our business. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem. Additionally, if a person is able to circumvent the security measures intended to protect our employee or customer private data, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations, which could significantly harm our reputation or result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties.In addition, our ability to accept credit cards as payment in our restaurants and for online gift card orders depends on us remaining compliant with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. These standards require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our customers’ credit card and other personal information. We employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches. However, we can provide no assurance that these security measures will be successful. If these security measures are not successful, we may become subject to litigation against us or the imposition of regulatory penalties, which could result in negative publicity and significantly harm our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.Our inability to improve our systems in fiscal 2015 to provide greater access for customers, increase operational capabilities, and to replace our core enterprise resource planning systems could negatively impact our results of operations.Operational excellence and the continued improvement of our customer experience are among our highest priorities. As a result, we expect to make increased investments during fiscal 2015 in our technology infrastructure, and the labor necessary to support this technology, in areas designed to more effectively collect and process our enterprise information and data for resource planning, as well as positively impacting the way in which our customers interact with us, including through the ordering process, food production and finally through the delivery of food to the customer. Our inability to effectively implement our core enterprise resource planning systems replacement, as well as the other changes to our technology infrastructure could negatively impact our operations and processes and could have a negative impact on our financial results.If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could be negatively impacted.We depend on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly regional and area managers and restaurant general managers. Competition for high-quality employees is intense. The loss of the services from our senior management or key team members or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could harm our business.Our restaurant and food products businesses are dependent on timely delivery of fresh ingredients by our suppliers and distributors.Our restaurant operations and food products business are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand, the economy and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. If the variety or quality of the food we offer declines due to the lack or lower quality of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients, customer traffic or food product orders may decline and negatively affect our sales. We have contracted with one primary and other third-party distributors for the delivery of food and other products to our restaurants. If our primary distributor or these contracts were suddenly and unexpectedly terminated, supply costs could increase and disruptions in distribution could occur during the transition to other third-party distributors which could negatively impact our results of operations.The price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities used by our restaurants could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.Our results of operations depend significantly on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food, ingredients, utilities, and other related costs over which we may have little control. Fluctuations in economic conditions, weather and demand, as well as natural disasters can adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the ingredients and products that we buy. We require fresh produce, dairy products and meat, and therefore are subject to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply of these food products could develop. Our operating margins are subject to changes in the price and availability of food commodities. For example, as discussed in greater detail above, the profitability of our BEF Foods segment is sensitive to sow and pork trimmings costs, which have been volatile but generally increasing over the past few years. The effect of, introduction of, or changes to tariffs or exchange rates on imported retail products or food products could increase our costs and possibly affect the supply of those products. Our operating margins are also affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on which our restaurants 21depend for much of their energy supply. Our inability to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, because we provide a moderately priced product, we may not seek or be able to pass along price increases to our guests sufficient to offset cost increases.Market supply and demand and the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from other food producers and processors, as well as the availability or price of competing proteins.We face competition from other food producers and processors. Some of the factors on which we compete and which may drive demand for our products include:•product safety and quality;•brand identification;•breadth and depth of product offerings; and•availability of our products and competing products.Demand for our products also is affected by competitors’ promotional spending, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs, and the availability or price of competing proteins.Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu and food products prices to offset increased costs could result in a decline in margins.We utilize price increases for menu offerings and food products to help offset cost increases, including increased costs for wholesale food, raw materials, distribution, minimum wages, employee benefits, construction, fuel, utility, and other costs. During fiscal 2014, we implemented menu price increases at Bob Evans Restaurants to help offset operating and supply cost increases. Further federal legislation to increase the minimum wage as well as the tip credit wage we pay to certain staff members receiving guest gratuities is possible, and there may be similar increases implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and prices to sufficiently account for increased costs, especially further minimum wage increases at the federal and/or state level. Also, because we offer moderately priced food, we may not be able to, or we may choose not to, pass along price increases to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We outsource certain business processes and product manufacturing to third-party vendors that subjects us to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs.Some of our business processes and the manufacturing of certain products are currently outsourced to third parties. Such processes include distribution of food and retail products to our restaurant locations, manufacturing of certain products, credit card authorization and processing, gift card tracking and authorization, health care and workers’ compensation insurance claims processing and externally hosted systems and business software applications. We cannot ensure that all providers of outsourced services are observing proper internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities, and there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.III. COMPLIANCEThe restaurant and food products industries are heavily regulated, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be more costly than we expect.The restaurant industry and the food products industry are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards, federal and state laws governing our relationships with employees (including the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("PPACA"), the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and applicable requirements concerning minimum wage, overtime, healthcare coverage, family leave, medical privacy, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and immigration status), federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008. Compliance with these legal requirements may be more costly than we expect. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant and/or the continued operation of a particular restaurant or food products manufacturing facility. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could also result in fines or legal actions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Significant legal and regulatory issues affecting our business include:22•employment laws, including minimum wage requirements, overtime pay requirements and exemptions, meal and rest break requirements, paid “sick days” or other paid time off, unemployment tax rates, discrimination laws, workers’ compensation rates and citizenship and immigration requirements;•national health care reform legislation passed by the U.S. Congress in March 2010 and its provisions will require nutritional information labeling on restaurant menus, menu boards, and drive-through displays;•permit, licensing and other regulatory requirements for the sale of food and beverages;•health, safety and fire regulations;•zoning, land and environmental regulations;•a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials;•sales tax;•new and changing laws and regulations relating to gift cards;•food safety regulations governing the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States and Canada; and•laws governing public access and employment for people with disabilities.In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, “Health Care Reform Acts”). Although we are preparing for and have developed business processes to deal with and mitigate the costs associated with the Health Care Reform Acts, which may result in significant modifications to our employment and benefits policies and practices, we cannot predict with certainty the financial and operational impacts the new law will have on us. We do expect that our expenses will increase as a result of the Health Care Reform Acts. Any such increases could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, such modifications to our business practices may be disruptive to our operations and impact our ability to attract and retain personnel. The effect of material changes to healthcare laws in the United States may significantly increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our financial results.We offer eligible U.S. employees the opportunity to enroll in healthcare coverage subsidized by us. For various reasons, many of our eligible employees currently choose not to participate in our healthcare plans. However, changes to the U.S. healthcare laws that become effective in 2014 may lead some eligible employees who currently do not participate in our healthcare plans to enroll for coverage. Such changes in the law include the imposition of a penalty on an individual who does not obtain healthcare coverage and provisions making certain individuals who can obtain employer coverage ineligible for healthcare premium tax subsidies that would otherwise be available in connection with the purchase of coverage through an exchange. If a significant number of eligible employees who do not currently participate in our healthcare plans, or who currently participate in our lower cost limited coverage plan, choose to enroll once the changes in law come into effect, our healthcare costs may increase significantly and negatively impact our financial results.Significant increases in health care costs continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that our cost containment efforts in this area will be effective. Also, while we have analyzed the anticipated impact of PPACA on our cost structure, we will not know for certain the impact on our health care benefit costs until PPACA is fully implemented. Increases in costs due either to the PPACA or general health care cost increases could have a material adverse impact our financial performance, as there is no assurance that we would be able to absorb and/or pass through such costs.Our federal, state, and local tax returns have been, and may in the future be, selected for audit by the tax authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.We are subject to federal, state, and local taxes in the United States, including income, sales, use, and other applicable taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for taxes. Additionally, sales and use tax requirements are often fact-specific, complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, which complicates monitoring and compliance. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable and our procedures for collecting sales taxes are appropriate, from time to time, federal, state, and local tax authorities have challenged, and may in the future challenge, positions we have taken on our tax 23returns or our sales tax collection policies. If we are unable to resolve these challenges favorably, we could incur additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication, or resolution of any disputes, could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.Legislation and regulations requiring the display and provision of nutritional information for our menu offerings in our restaurants could increase our operating costs, affect consumer preferences, increase the likelihood of litigation, and negatively impact our results of operations.Some of our Bob Evans Restaurants are already subject to state menu-labeling laws. The Health Care Reform Acts contain provisions that require restaurants with 20 or more locations to post calorie information on menus and additional nutritional information in writing at the restaurant. The FDA released Proposed Regulations implementing this legislation on April 6, 2011. The FDA was expected to release Final Regulations prior to December 31, 2011, but did not, and no release date is currently set. The Final Regulations are anticipated to specify when the FDA will commence enforcement of the Final Regulations which is expected to be between six months to one year after publication. Although the new federal legislation would preempt state and local legislation already enacted (e.g., California, Maine, Massachusetts, Montgomery County, Maryland, New Jersey, Oregon, Nashville, Tennessee, New York City, New York and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania), some of these jurisdictions are requiring compliance with their regulations until the FDA begins enforcing the federal regulations.Menu labeling regulations could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition due to the potential impact on our sales and profitability if the disclosures change guest preferences and menu mix, as well as increased operating costs incurred to comply with these regulations. Moreover, we could become subject to litigation arising from our nutritional disclosures, such as claims that our nutritional disclosures are inaccurate or that our menu offerings are harmful to human health.Health concerns and government regulations relating to the consumption of trans-fats, pork, beef, chicken and other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations.Consumer food preferences could be affected by health concerns regarding the consumption of various types of food, such as trans-fats, pork, beef or chicken. While we have eliminated all artificial and synthetic trans-fats from our restaurant menu offerings and our food products, some foods, such as bacon, naturally contain trans-fats. Some government authorities have proposed increasing regulations regarding naturally occurring trans-fats and sodium. These regulations could, if adopted, require us to limit naturally occurring trans-fats or sodium amounts in our menu offerings and/or food products in the future. This could require us to switch to higher cost ingredients, stop offering certain products, or could hinder our ability to operate in certain markets.Negative publicity concerning “mad cow” and “foot-and-mouth” disease relating to the consumption of beef and other meat products, “H1N1” or “swine flu” related to pork products, “H5N1” and “H7N9” “avian or bird flu” related to poultry products, and the publication of government, academic or industry findings about health concerns relating to menu items served by any of our restaurants could also affect consumer food preferences. These types of health concerns and negative publicity concerning our food products may adversely affect the demand for our food and negatively impact our business and results of operations.Since the second quarter of 2013 pork producers in the United States have been experiencing an outbreak of PEDv. It is important to note that PEDv affects piglets but does not create a food safety issue. Since first reported in the United States in the second quarter of 2013, PEDv has continued to spread and has now been reported in at least 30 states. According to recent reports, the outbreak has impacted up to 50% of the sows in the United States. We are closely monitoring the evolution of this on-going outbreak and its impact on the swine industry and on business in fiscal year 2015. We are currently unable to predict the extent to which PEDv may negatively impact our operations or sow market prices in the future.Our business could be adversely impacted if we are the subject of increased litigation regarding personal injuries suffered on our premises, discrimination, harassment or other labor matters.Employee and customer claims against us based on, among other things, personal injury, discrimination, harassment, wage and hour disputes or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources from operating our businesses. Restaurant companies have been the target of class actions and other lawsuits alleging, among other things, violation of federal and state law. Like many employers, we have been faced with allegations of purported class-wide labor violations in Ohio, and we have taken charges related to the settlement of these cases. An unfavorable verdict or a significant settlement in a future class-action lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations.24We identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting during the years ended April 25, 2014, and April 26, 2013. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. The identification of a material weakness could indicate a lack of controls adequate to generate accurate financial statements that, in turn, could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock. We have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in current and prior years, including those described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely remediate any material weaknesses that may be identified in future periods or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies.In addition, we continue to implement an enterprise resource planning system (“ERP”), which is not yet operational. Any impact from the issues we experienced or additional delays in the implementation of this system could cause further disruption of our internal control over financial reporting and cause delays in our ability to adequately assess our internal control over financial reporting.The Audit Committee has provided and continues to provide the oversight of management's plans to document and remediate our internal control system. Implementation of these plans to document and remediate our internal control system has and will continue to divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources due to the costs associated with remediation, which includes both management and Audit Committee time and also the costs associated with third party consultants and required higher levels of audit effort by our independent auditors. If we fail to remediate any material weakness or significant deficiency, maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting or comply with the federal securities rules and regulations applicable to us, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and our SEC reporting obligations related to our internal control over financial reporting, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, we may be unable to obtain an unqualified audit opinion, and our access to the capital markets may be restricted. In addition, we may, in the future, identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Each of the foregoing could impact the reliability and timeliness of our financial reports and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on our business and the value of our securities. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods.Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") and other accounting standard-setting bodies may periodically issue changes to, interpretations of or guidance with respect to GAAP. The adoption of such guidance may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.IV. OTHEREconomic conditions in the United States adversely impacted our business and financial results in fiscal 2014, and uncertainty regarding the economic recovery could have a material adverse effect on us in the future.The restaurant and food products industry is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending. The economic downturn in the United States and uncertainty regarding the economic recovery has reduced consumer confidence impacting the public’s ability and desire to spend discretionary dollars, resulting in lower levels of guest traffic in our restaurants and sales of our food products. When gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy costs increase, and credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs increase, our guests and customers have less disposable income and may reduce the frequency with which they dine out or purchase our products. Although there has been some improvement in certain economic indicators, recent reports indicate that consumer uncertainty may persist during 2014 and beyond, so our ability to increase sales may be negatively impacted in the future. If this difficult economic situation continues for a prolonged period of time or deepens in magnitude, our 25business and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected, and our customers may continue to remain apprehensive about the economy and maintain or further reduce their already lowered level of discretionary spending. This could result in spreading fixed costs across a lower level of sales, and could, in turn cause downward pressure on our profitability. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business.The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. For example, in connection with credit and debit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee or company data, we could be exposed to risks of data loss, fines, a loss of the ability to process credit and debit card payments, litigation and serious disruption of our operations. Additionally, any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.Failure to comply with laws, regulations and third party contracts regarding the collection, maintenance and processing of information may result in adverse publicity and adversely affect the operation of our business and results of operations.We collect, maintain and process certain information about customers and employees. Our use and protection of this information is regulated by various laws and regulations, as well as by third party contracts. If our systems or employees fail to comply with these laws, regulations or contract terms, it could require us to notify customers, employees or other groups, resulting in adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits, increased fees payable to third parties, and penalties or remediation and other costs that could adversely affect the operation of our business and results of operations.The inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications from the improper collection of personal information.Negative posts or comments about us on any social networking Web site could seriously damage our reputation. In addition, the disclosure of nonpublic company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and archive this information. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges.Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to a variety of other factors, resulting in a decline in our stock price.Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including:•fluctuations in food and commodity prices, including sow costs;•the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses;•restaurant operating costs for our newly opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation;•labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel;•profitability of our restaurants, especially in new markets;•impairments of long-term assets;•trends in same-store sales;•adverse weather conditions, especially during peak winter holiday sales seasons;•special items, such as property purchases or sales;•class action or litigation settlements;•local and national economic conditions, including gasoline and other energy costs; and26•changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions.Our Bob Evans Restaurants and our BEF Foods business segments are also subject to seasonal fluctuations. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results, same-store sales and comparable food products sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any fiscal year. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to the factors discussed above, this could result in a decline in our stock price.Many factors, including those over which we have no control, affect the trading price of our stock.Factors such as reports on the economy or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report relates directly to our business, could have an impact on the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by stock market conditions, including price and trading fluctuations on the NASDAQ Stock Market, the New York Stock Exchange or other exchanges. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our common stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders, as well as nonoperating initiatives such as share repurchase programs. Any failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance, particularly with respect to comparable restaurant sales, revenues, operating margins and earnings per share, would likely cause our stock price to decline.Disruptions in the financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit and consumer spending patterns.Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt and to obtain financing for general corporate purposes will depend on our operating and financial performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurances that we will be able to arrange credit on terms we believe are acceptable or that permit us to finance our business with historical margins. These events have also adversely affected the U.S. and world economy, and any new or continuing disruptions in the financial markets may also adversely affect the U.S. and world economy, which could negatively impact consumer spending patterns. There can be no assurances that various U.S. and world government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets in the near future will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity or the availability of credit. There can be no assurances as to how or when this unprecedented period of turmoil will be resolved.Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments could restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely affect us.Our credit facility contains various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to incur liens on our assets; merge or consolidate with other entities; transfer or sell a substantial part of our assets; substantially change the nature of our business; pay dividends or initiate stock repurchases under certain circumstances; and enter into transactions with affiliates, among other restrictions. The covenants contained in our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger, acquisition or other corporate opportunities, to fund our business operations or to successfully implement our current and future operating strategies. The credit facility also requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. At April 25, 2014, we were in compliance with these covenants. However, any failure to maintain these financial covenants or have sufficient liquidity to either repay or refinance the then outstanding balance upon violation of the covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition if we were unable to obtain an amendment or waiver from our bank group or access alternative sources of capital.A breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness.A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other agreements. In addition, the agreements governing our credit facility require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control (such as uncertainties related to the current economy), and we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants at all times in the future. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt instruments, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot be sure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness.27If we are unable to continue to pay dividends or repurchase our stock as expected by the market, our earnings per share (“EPS”) and stock price may be harmed.Our dividend and stock repurchase programs require the use of a significant portion of our cash flow or may exceed our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and our capacity to borrow funds, which may be subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Any failure to pay dividends or repurchase stock after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact investor confidence in us, thereby negatively impacting our EPS and stock price.Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand.We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Our primary trademarks, “Bob Evans,” "Bob Evans Restaurants" and “Owens,” are key components of our operating and marketing strategies. As a result, we devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, could cause us to incur significant legal costs.In addition, third parties might claim that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.As a result of the provisions of the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement dated January 28, 2013, pursuant to which the sale of the Mimi’s Café restaurant chain was sold, we may incur expenses for liabilities we retained and indemnification we provided to the buyer, and we may not receive all or part of the purchase price evidenced by the $30.0 million promissory note from the buyer.As part of the terms of the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement dated January 28, 2013, pursuant to which we sold the Mimi’s Café restaurant chain, we retained certain liabilities for the presale operations of the Mimi’s Café restaurant chain, including potential claims and most existing litigation, as well as agreeing to indemnify the buyer against the costs of the same. As a result, we are likely to incur expenses for such claims and liabilities related to periods up to the date of sale.Part of the consideration we received in the transaction was a promissory note, (the "Note") which has a principal balance of $30.0 million, an annual interest rate of 1.5%, and a term of seven years. The Note is payable at maturity. Partial prepayments are required prior to maturity if the buyer reaches certain levels of EBITDA during specified periods, or upon a sale or liquidation. The buyer covenanted to and did provide funding of at least $10.0 million through the initial 18-months after closing. To the extent of such capital being funded but not repaid, we agreed to subordinate our right to repayment under the Note until the buyer has first received a repayment of its funding. Our right to repayment under the Note is subordinated to third party lenders. Because the maker of the Note is a newly formed entity with limited capital and because of the subordinated nature of our claims under the Note, if the Mimi’s Café restaurant chain should have limited profitability or losses, it is possible that the principal amount of the Note may not be paid in full or at all.Our current insurance loss estimates may not be adequate and, if claims exceed such estimates, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.We are self-insured for a significant portion of our current exposures related to our workers’ compensation, general, auto and property liabilities and employee health insurance programs. Although we base our loss estimates on actuarial data, as well as on our historical trends, we may not be able to accurately predict the number or value of the claims that occur. In particular, health insurance costs have increased significantly over the last 10 years. In the event that our actual liability exceeds our estimate for any given period, or if we are unable to control rapidly increasing health care costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our level of profitability.Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Delaware law, may have anti-takeover effects.Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to us could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware 28corporation from engaging in any business combination with any “interested shareholder” (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. In addition, our senior management is entitled to certain payments and rights upon a change in control of our Company, which could result in expenses that may deter a potential merger, tender offer or other acquisition of our Company.Our business could be negatively affected as a result of a proxy fight and the actions of activist shareholders.We recently received a notice from Castlerigg Global Equity Special Event Master Fund, Ltd., one of our stockholders affiliated with the Sandell Asset Management Corp. (together with its affiliates, "Sandell"), that indicates Sandell's intention to nominate eight individuals for election to our board of directors at our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders. If a proxy contest involving Sandell ensues, or if we become engaged in a proxy contest with another activist shareholder in the future, our business could be adversely affected because:•responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can disrupt our operations, be costly and time-consuming, and divert the attention of our management and employees;•perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and •if individuals are elected to our board of directors to pursue an activist shareholder's particular agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively implement our business strategy and create additional value for our shareholdersITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.