Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors presented below may affect our future operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition to the risk factors presented below, changes in general economic conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, demographic trends and consumer confidence in the economy, which affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions in general, may have a material impact on us. Our actual results could vary significantly from any results expressed or implied by forward-looking statements depending upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties: Our failure to achieve and maintain positive same-store sales would likely have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Same-store sales are a key measure of the financial health of our company as well as individual restaurants. Same-store sales growth may be affected by a number of factors, including: • local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits; • gasoline prices; • customer trends; • intense competition in the restaurant business; • daily execution; • extraordinary events such as weather or natural disasters; and • pricing pressure. Our Bob Evans Restaurants experienced a decline in same-store sales in both fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006. Also, same-store sales for Mimi’s Café increased only 1.6% in fiscal 2006, compared to a 4.4% increase in fiscal 2005 (for the period after our acquisition of Mimi’s Café). Although the same-stores sales trend for Bob Evans Restaurants began to improve during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we may not see improvements in same-store sales in the future. Our failure to achieve and maintain positive same-store sales for extended periods of time for either of our restaurant concepts would likely have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operation and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents A decline in general economic conditions could materially adversely affect our financial results. Consumer spending habits, including discretionary spending on dining out at restaurants such as ours, are affected by: • prevailing economic conditions; • energy costs, especially gasoline prices; • levels of employment; • salaries and wage rates; • consumer confidence; and • consumer perception of economic conditions. Continued weakness or uncertainty of the United States economy as a result of reactions to inflation, unemployment, war, terrorist activity or other unforeseen events could materially adversely affect consumer spending habits, which would likely result in lower restaurant sales. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant and food products industries. The restaurant industry is highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, population trends, traffic patterns, weather conditions, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits, many of which are beyond our control. Key competitive factors in the industry are the quality and value of the food products offered, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, advertising, name brand awareness and image, and restaurant locations. Many of our competitors are well-established national, regional or local chains, and some have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may give them competitive advantages. We also compete with many restaurant operators and other retail establishments for site locations and restaurant employees. As our competitors expand operations in markets where we operate, or may operate in the future, we expect competition to intensify, which could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. The food products business is also highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits. Key competitive factors in the industry are the quality and value of the food products offered, flavor, advertising and name brand awareness. Our competitors include well-established national, regional and local producers and wholesalers of similar products, many of whom have substantially greater name recognition and financial, marketing and other resources than we do, which may give them competitive advantages. Our growth strategy depends on opening new restaurants. Our ability to expand our restaurant base is influenced by factors beyond our control, which may further slow restaurant expansion and impair our growth strategy. We are pursuing a moderate and disciplined growth strategy which, to be successful, will depend in large part on our ability to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to achieve our expansion goals or operating results similar to those of 16 Table of Contents our existing restaurants. One of our biggest challenges in meeting our growth objectives will be to locate and secure an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. We have experienced delays in opening some of our restaurants and may experience delays in the future. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The success of our planned expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • the hiring of qualified personnel; • reliance on management to identify available and suitable restaurant sites; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable purchase or lease terms for restaurant sites; • timely development of new restaurants, including the availability of construction materials and labor; • management of construction and development costs of new restaurants; • securing required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; • cost and availability of capital; • competition in our markets; and • general economic conditions. In addition, we contemplate entering new markets in which we have no operating experience. These new markets may have different demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause the new restaurants to be less successful in these new markets than in our existing markets. Our growth strategy may strain our management, financial and other resources, especially with respect to Mimi’s Café. For instance, our existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources may be inadequate to support our planned expansion of new restaurants. Also, we may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that the planned expansion will impose on our infrastructure and other resources. Our success depends on consumer acceptance of our menu offerings, food products, prices, atmosphere and service procedures. Our success in creating demand for our restaurant menu offerings and food products is dependent on our ability to continue to accurately predict consumer dining and taste preferences and adapt our menu and food products to trends in food consumption. If customer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriately priced menu offerings and food products, it could materially affect demand for our menu offerings and food products, which would result in lost customers and an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to keep the atmosphere of our two restaurant concepts relevant and to provide satisfactory customer service. If we change a restaurant concept or customer service technique, we may lose customers who do not prefer the 17 Table of Contents changed concept or customer service technique, and we may not be able to attract a sufficient new customer base to produce the revenue needed to make the concept profitable. Our restaurant business is dependent upon satisfactory customer service, and we may have difficulty hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to deliver appropriate service. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers who can meet the high standards necessary to deliver the levels of food quality and service on which our restaurant concepts are based. The short supply of qualified individuals in some areas could strain our restaurant operations, delay new restaurant openings or require us to increase wages to attract desired individuals, which would materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Also, high rates of employee turnover could have a negative impact on food quality and customer service, which would result in an adverse effect on our restaurant business and results of operations. Because many of our restaurants are concentrated in certain geographic areas, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by regional economic conditions and events. The concentration of many of our existing and planned restaurants in particular regions could affect our operating results in a number of ways. For example, our results of operations may be adversely affected by economic conditions in that region, the local labor market and regional competition. Also, adverse publicity relating to our restaurants in a region in which they are concentrated could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our overall revenue than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly dispersed. A majority of our Bob Evans Restaurants are located in Ohio and other parts of the Midwest, which makes us particularly sensitive to economic conditions, natural disasters and other events in this region. We believe same-store sales at our Bob Evans Restaurants have suffered in part due to the lagging economy in the Midwest. Also, given that 52 of our 102 Mimi’s Cafés are located in California, we are also particularly sensitive to events and developments in that state, such as earthquakes or other natural disasters and energy shortages. Expanding our restaurant base by opening new restaurants in existing markets could reduce the business of our existing restaurants. Our growth strategy includes opening restaurants in markets in which we already have existing restaurants. We may be unable to attract enough customers to the new restaurants for them to operate at an acceptable profit. Even if we are able to attract enough customers to the new restaurants to operate them at an acceptable profit, those customers may be former customers of one of our existing restaurants in that market and the opening of new restaurants in the existing market could reduce the revenue of our existing restaurants in that market. Adverse weather conditions could harm our sales. Weather, which is unpredictable, can adversely impact sales at our restaurants. Adverse weather conditions, such as snow and ice in the Midwest, that keep customers from dining out result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. Adverse weather conditions may also cause shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh meat and produce to our restaurants and hamper the distribution of our fresh food products to grocery stores. 18 Table of Contents The restaurant and food products industries are heavily regulated, and compliance may be more costly than we expect. The restaurant industry and the food products industry are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements may be more costly than we expect. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant and/or the continued operation of a particular restaurant or food product manufacturing facility. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could also result in fines or legal actions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Significant legal and regulatory issues affecting our business include: • employment laws, including minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, meal and rest break requirements, health insurance, unemployment tax rates, discrimination laws, workers’ compensation rates and citizenship and immigration requirements; • permit requirements for the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; • health, safety and fire regulations; • zoning, land and environmental regulations; • sales tax; • food safety regulations governing the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States; • laws governing public access and employment for people with disabilities; and • state “dram shop” statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Our business could suffer if we are the subject of negative publicity or litigation regarding allegations of food-related illnesses or other complaints about our operations. As a restaurant and food products business, we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from consumers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Food-related illnesses may be caused by a variety of food-borne pathogens, such as e-coli or salmonella, and from a variety of illnesses transmitted by restaurant workers, such as hepatitis. As a result, we cannot control all of the potential sources of illness that can be transmitted from food. If any person becomes ill, or alleges becoming ill, as a result of eating our food, we may be liable for damages, be subject to governmental regulatory action and/or receive adverse publicity, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable; all of which could have long-lasting, negative effects on our financial position or results of operations. Additionally, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, wage and hours disputes or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources from operation of the business. For example, in fiscal 2006, we took a charge of approximately $0.9 million in connection with the settlement of a class action brought against Mimi’s Café that alleged, among other things, that non-exempt employees were not provided proper meal and rest breaks under California law. A 19 Table of Contents significant increase in the number of these claims or an increase in the number of successful claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu and food product prices to offset increased costs could result in a decline in margins. We utilize price increases for menu offerings and food products to help offset cost increases, including increased costs for wholesale food, raw materials, distribution, minimum wages, employee benefits, construction, fuel, utility, inflation and other costs. Our food products business is particularly sensitive to hog costs. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and prices to sufficiently account for increased costs. Also, because we offer moderately priced food, we may not be able to, or may choose not to, pass along price increases to our customers which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are dependent on timely delivery of fresh ingredients by our suppliers. Our restaurant operations are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand, the economy and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. If the variety or quality of our food products declines due to the lack or lower quality of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients and similar factors, customer traffic may decline and negatively affect our sales. We have contracted with a third-party distributor for the delivery of food and other products to a substantial majority of our Bob Evans Restaurants. A different third-party distributor serves as the primary food supplier for our Mimi’s Cafés. If either of these contracts were suddenly and unexpectedly terminated, supply costs could increase and disruptions in distribution could occur during the transition to other third-party distributors. Also, Mimi’s Cafés rely on a single site prep kitchen for preparation of substantially all of the concept’s signature muffin mixes, dressings, sauces and soups. Any temporary or permanent disruption in the operation of this facility would affect the ability of Mimi’s Cafés to serve the full range of menu offerings or require us to obtain these items from alternative sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The growth of our food products sales and profits is dependent upon our ability to expand into existing and new markets. The successful growth of our food products business depends on our ability to expand our reach into existing and new markets through both the retention of new customers and the introduction of new products. The expansion of our food products business depends on our ability to obtain and retain large-account customers, such as grocery store chains and warehouse customers, and our ability to enter into long-term contracts with those customers. Our failure to contract with new large-account customers or maintain our contractual relationships with existing large account customers would materially adversely affect our food products business and results of operations. Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef, chicken, pork and other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Consumer food preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of various types of food, such as beef, chicken and pork. Negative publicity concerning “mad cow” and “foot-and-mouth” disease relating to the consumption of beef and other meat products, “avian flu” related to poultry products and the publication of government, academic or industry findings about health concerns relating to food 20 Table of Contents products served by any of our restaurants could also affect consumer food preferences. These types of health concerns and negative publicity concerning our food products may adversely affect the demand for our food and negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to a variety of other factors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: • fluctuations in food and commodity prices, especially hog costs; • the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; • restaurant operating costs for our newly opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation than thereafter; • labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel; • profitability of our restaurants, especially in new markets; • trends in same-store sales; • adverse weather conditions; • special items, such as property sales; • local and national economic conditions, such as gasoline and other energy costs; and • changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions. Our restaurant and food products businesses are also subject to minor seasonal fluctuations. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results, same-store sales and comparable food products sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any fiscal year. Our current insurance loss estimates may not be adequate and, if claims exceed such estimates, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. We are self-insured for a significant portion of our current exposures related to our workers’ compensation, general liabilities and employee medical insurance programs. Although we base our loss estimates on actuarial data, as well as on our historical trends, we may not be able to accurately predict the number or value of the claims that occur. In the event that our actual liability exceeds our estimate for any given period, our level of profitability could be materially adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand. We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Our primary trademarks, Bob Evans, Mimi’s Café and Owens, are key components of our operating and marketing strategies. We, therefore, devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be enough to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal fees. We cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items in the future or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 