Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors presented below may affect our future operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition to the risk factors presented below, changes in general economic conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns, demographic trends and consumer confidence in the economy, which affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions and retail purchases in general, may have a material adverse effect on us. Our actual results could vary significantly from any results expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission depending upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following risks and uncertainties: 17 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if we are the subject of negative publicity or litigation regarding allegations of food-related illnesses. As a multi-unit restaurant business and food products business, we can be adversely affected by complaints or litigation from consumers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, adverse health effects (including obesity) or operational concerns. Our reputation and business can also be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from such complaints or litigation. Food-related illnesses may be caused by a variety of foodborne pathogens, such as e-coli or salmonella, and from a variety of illnesses transmitted by restaurant workers, such as hepatitis. Foodborne illness incidents could also be caused by food suppliers and distributors. As a result, we cannot control all of the potential sources of illness that can be transmitted from food. If any person becomes ill, or alleges becoming ill, as a result of eating our food, we may be liable for damages, be subject to governmental regulatory action and/or receive adverse publicity, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable, any of which could have long-lasting, negative effects on our financial position and results of operations. Legislation and regulations requiring the display and provision of nutritional information for our menu offerings in our restaurants could increase our operating costs, affect consumer preferences, increase the likelihood of litigation, and negatively impact our results of operations. We are concerned about regulations requiring restaurants to provide calorie and other nutritional information on menus and/or in our restaurants. Our Mimi’s Cafés located in California are subject to a state-wide menu labeling law that became effective on July 1, 2009, and our Bob Evans Restaurant located in Montgomery County, Maryland is subject to a menu labeling law that becomes effective on July 1, 2010. The national health care reform legislation enacted on March 23, 2010, contains provisions that require restaurants with 20 or more locations to post calorie information on menus and additional nutritional information in writing at the restaurant. The FDA is currently drafting specific regulations which it must implement within one year from the date of passage of the federal legislation. Although the new federal legislation preempts the legislation already enacted in California, Montgomery County, Maryland, and other state and local jurisdictions (e.g., Maine, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Oregon, New York City and Philadelphia), some of these jurisdictions are requiring compliance with their regulations until the FDA regulations are enacted. Menu labeling regulations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition due to the potential impact on our sales and profitability if the disclosures change guest preferences and menu mix, as well as increased operating costs incurred to comply with these regulations. Moreover, we could become subject to litigation arising from our nutritional disclosures, such as claims that our nutritional disclosures are inaccurate or that our menu offerings are harmful to human health. The financial performance and results of operations of our food products business could be adversely affected by availability of and price we pay for sows. The most important raw material used in our food products business is live sows, which we depend upon to produce our pork sausage products. We procure live sows at prevailing market prices from terminals, local auctions, country markets and corporate and family farms in many states and Canada. The live sow market is highly cyclical in terms of the number of sows available and the current market price. During fiscal 2010, there was a significant contraction in the live sow market, and we believe that the sow herd is at its lowest level since the early 1900’s. The live sow market is also dependent upon supply and demand for pork products, as well as corn and soybean meal prices (the major food supply for sows), weather and farmers’ access to capital. The live sow market has been extremely volatile over the past several years, with our sow costs averaging $42 per hundredweight in fiscal 2010, $45 per hundredweight in fiscal 2009 and $35 per hundredweight in fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2011, we believe our food products segment will continue to be challenged by sow costs that are significantly higher than historical averages, as well as limited supplies of sows. We estimate our fiscal 2011 sow costs will be in the range of $55 to $60 per hundredweight, compared to $42 in fiscal 2010. Higher sow costs adversely affect the profitability of our food products business, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to pass along any portion to our food products consumers in a timely manner or at all. 18 Table of Contents Health concerns and government regulations relating to the consumption of trans-fats, pork, beef, chicken and other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Consumer food preferences could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of various types of food, such as trans-fats, pork, beef and chicken. Negative publicity concerning trans-fats related to fried foods and other items, “mad cow” and “foot-and-mouth” disease relating to the consumption of beef and other meat products, “H1N1” or “swine flu” related to pork products, “avian flu” related to poultry products and the publication of government, academic or industry findings about health concerns relating to menu items served by any of our restaurants could also affect consumer food preferences. These types of health concerns and negative publicity concerning our food products may adversely affect the demand for our food and negatively impact our business and results of operations. Additionally, some government authorities are increasing regulations regarding trans-fats, and sodium which may require us to limit or eliminate trans-fats and sodium from our menu offerings and/or food products. For example, our Mimi’s Cafés located in California are subject to a state-wide trans-fat ban which began in 2010. These regulations may require us to switch to higher cost ingredients and may hinder our ability to operate in certain markets. The success of our restaurant operations is dependent, in part, upon our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health and disclosure regulations and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. If consumer health regulations or consumer eating habits change significantly, we may be required to modify or delete certain menu items. To the extent we are unable to respond with appropriate changes to our menu offerings, it could materially affect customer demand and have an adverse impact on our revenues. The global economic crisis adversely impacted our business and financial results in fiscal 2010, and a prolonged recession could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. The restaurant industry is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending. The global economic crisis has reduced consumer confidence to historic lows impacting the public’s ability and desire to spend discretionary dollars as a result of job losses, home foreclosures, significantly reduced home values, investment losses in the financial markets, personal bankruptcies and reduced access to credit, resulting in lower levels of guest traffic in our restaurants. If this difficult economic situation continues for a prolonged period of time or deepens in magnitude, our business and results of operation could be materially adversely effected and may result in a further deceleration of the number and timing of new restaurant openings. Continued deterioration in guest traffic and a reduction in the average amount guests spend in our restaurants will negatively impact our revenues. This will result in spreading fixed costs across a lower level of sales, and will, in turn cause downward pressure on our profitability. This could result in asset impairment charges and potential restaurant closures. Future recessionary effects on us are unknown at this time and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Certain economic and business factors specific to the restaurant industry and certain general economic factors including unemployment, energy prices and interest rates that are largely out of our control may adversely affect our results of operations. The results of operations of our restaurant concepts depend upon a number of industry-specific and general economic factors, many of which are beyond our control. The restaurant industry is affected by changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences. Recessionary economic cycles, a protracted economic slowdown, a worsening economy, increased unemployment, decreased salaries and wage rates, increased energy prices, inflation, rising interest rates or other industry-wide cost pressures affect consumer behavior and decrease spending for restaurant dining occasions, leading to a decline in our sales and earnings. When gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy costs increase, and credit card, home mortgage and other borrowing costs increase with rising interest rates, our guests may have less disposable income and reduce the frequency with which they dine out. This is particularly the case with casual dining concepts like Mimi’s Café because consumers may choose more inexpensive restaurants (such as quick-service restaurants or fast casual dining) when eating outside the home. Unfavorable changes in the factors described above or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could increase our costs, reduce traffic in some or all of 19 Table of Contents our restaurants or impose practical limits on pricing, any of which would lower our profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because many of our restaurants are concentrated in certain geographic areas, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations by regional economic conditions and events. The concentration of many of our existing and planned restaurants in particular regions of the United States could affect our operating results in a number of ways. For example, our results of operations may be adversely affected by economic conditions in that region, the local labor market and regional competition. Also, adverse publicity relating to our restaurants in a region in which they are concentrated could have a more pronounced adverse effect on our overall revenue than might be the case if our restaurants were more broadly dispersed. A majority of our Bob Evans Restaurants are located in Ohio and other parts of the Midwest, which makes us particularly sensitive to economic conditions, natural disasters, severe weather and other events in this region. We believe same-store sales at our Bob Evans Restaurants are particularly sensitive to economic conditions in the Midwest, which has been hit particularly hard by the downturn in the United States’ economy, the troubled auto industry, increased unemployment and lower home values. Nearly 250 Bob Evans Restaurants are located in Michigan and Ohio where the impact of job losses in the automotive industry (manufacturers and suppliers) could have a material adverse effect on our sales. Also, because a significant percentage of our Mimi’s are located in California, we are also particularly sensitive to events and developments in that state, such as earthquakes or other natural disasters and energy shortages. We are particularly concerned about Mimi’s sales and profit trends in California, Florida, Arizona and Nevada. These states accounted for approximately 70 percent of Mimi’s sales in fiscal 2010 and have been hit particularly hard by the downturn in the United States’ economy, sub-prime mortgage issues, increased unemployment and lower home values. Our failure to achieve and maintain positive same-store sales for an extended period of time would likely have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Same-store sales are a key measure of the financial health of our company, as well as our individual restaurants. Same-store sales growth may be affected by a number of factors, including: • local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits; • gasoline prices; • customer trends; • intense competition in the restaurant business; • customer satisfaction; • extraordinary events such as weather or natural disasters; and • pricing pressure. In fiscal 2010, same-store sales at Mimi’s decreased 7.2 percent and Bob Evans Restaurants’ same-store sales decreased 3.5 percent. Our failure to achieve and maintain positive same-store sales for extended periods of time for either of our restaurant concepts would have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could suffer if we are the subject of increased litigation regarding personal injuries suffered on our premises, discrimination, harassment or other labor matters. Employee and customer claims against us based on, among other things, personal injury, discrimination, harassment, wage and hour disputes or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources from operating our businesses. Restaurant companies have been the target of class actions and other lawsuits alleging, among other things, violation of federal and state law. Like many employers, Mimi’s has been faced with allegations of purported class-wide wage and hour violations in California, and we have taken charges related to the settlement of these cases. 20 Table of Contents On October 28, 2008, a class action complaint entitled Leonard Flores, et al. v. SWH Corporation d/b/a Mimi’s Café was filed in Orange County California Superior Court. Mr. Flores was employed as an assistant manager of Mimi’s Café until September 2006 and purports to represent a class of assistant managers who are allegedly similarly situated. Mimi’s Café classified its assistant managers as exempt employees until October 2009. The case involves claims that current and former assistant managers working in California from October 2004 to October 2009 were misclassified by Mimi’s Café as exempt employees. As a result, the complaint alleges that these assistant managers were deprived of overtime pay, rest breaks and meal periods as required for nonexempt employees under California wage and hour laws. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, equitable relief, unpaid benefits, penalties, interest and attorneys’ fees and costs. Although we believe Mimi’s Café properly classified its assistant managers as exempt employees under California law, we elected to resolve the Flores lawsuit through voluntary mediation. The Orange County California Superior Court granted preliminary approval of a settlement in the amount of $1,030,000 in January 2010. We recently completed the administration of claims, and the Orange County Superior Court granted final approval of the settlement on June 10, 2010. On October 13, 2009, a class action complaint entitled Edder Diaz and Rosolyn Gray, et al. vs. SWH Corporation d/b/a Mimi’s Café was filed in Alameda County California Superior Court. Mr. Diaz and Ms. Gray purport to represent a class of various nonexempt employees, including bartenders, hosts and servers, who are allegedly similarly situated. The case involves claims that current and former nonexempt employees working in these positions in California from October 2005 to the present (1) were not reimbursed for certain expenses incurred in connection with the discharge of their duties and (2) were denied rest breaks and meal periods as required for nonexempt employees under California wage and hour laws. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, penalties, interest and attorneys’ fees and costs. We believe Mimi’s has complied with the California wage and hour laws at issue in the Diaz lawsuit. We are evaluating the results of similar proceedings in California and are consulting with advisors with specialized expertise. An unfavorable verdict or a significant settlement could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The restaurant and food products industries are heavily regulated, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations may be more costly than we expect. The restaurant industry and the food products industry are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations. Compliance with these legal requirements may be more costly than we expect. The failure to obtain and/or retain licenses, permits or other regulatory approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant and/or the continued operation of a particular restaurant or food products manufacturing facility. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could also result in fines or legal actions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Significant legal and regulatory issues affecting our business include: • employment laws, including minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, meal and rest break requirements, paid “sick days” or other paid time off, unemployment tax rates, discrimination laws, workers’ compensation rates and citizenship and immigration requirements; • national health care reform legislation that passed the U.S. Congress in March 2010 and its provisions that will require labeling on restaurant menus, menu boards, and drive-through displays; • permit, licensing and other regulatory requirements for the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; • health, safety and fire regulations; • zoning, land and environmental regulations; • sales tax; • food safety regulations governing the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the United States and Canada; 21 Table of Contents • laws governing public access and employment for people with disabilities; and • state “dram shop” statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business. The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee or company data, our reputation could be damaged and we could experience lost sales, fines or lawsuits. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant and food products industries. The restaurant industry is highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, population trends, traffic patterns and weather conditions, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits, many of which are beyond our control. Key competitive factors in the restaurant industry include the quality and value of the menu items offered, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, advertising, name brand awareness and image and restaurant locations. Many of our competitors are well-established national, regional or local chains, and some have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages. We also compete with many restaurant operators and other retail establishments for site locations and restaurant employees. We expect competition to intensify as our competitors expand operations in our markets and quick-service restaurant chains expand their breakfast offerings. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The food products business is also highly competitive and is affected by changes in the public’s eating habits and preferences, as well as by local and national economic conditions affecting consumer spending habits. Key competitive factors in the industry include the quality, flavor and value of the food products offered, advertising and name brand awareness. Our competitors include well-established national, regional and local producers and wholesalers of similar products, many of whom have substantially greater name recognition and financial, marketing and other resources than we have, which may give them competitive advantages. We are facing increased competition from private label sausage products and side dishes. We expect competition to intensify in our food products segment as other food companies introduce refrigerated side dishes to compete with our successful mashed potatoes and macaroni and cheese products. This increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities used by our restaurants could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our business is subject to the general risks of inflation. Our results of operations depend significantly on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food, ingredients, utilities, and other related costs over which we may have little control. Fluctuations in economic conditions, weather and demand, as well as natural disasters can adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the ingredients and products that we buy. We require fresh produce, dairy products and meat, and therefore are subject to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply of these food products could develop. Our operating margins are subject to changes in the price and availability of food commodities. For example, during fiscal 2010, the profitability of our food products segment was negatively impacted by supply issues as well as by price volatility including record high sow costs in the fourth quarter, which represent the majority of food products segment cost of sales. The effect of, introduction of, or changes to tariffs or exchange rates on imported retail products or food products could increase our costs and possibly affect the supply of those products. Our operating margins are also affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on which our restaurants 22 Table of Contents depend for much of their energy supply. Our inability to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, because we provide a moderately priced product, we may not seek or be able to pass along price increases to our guests sufficient to offset cost increases. Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu and food products prices to offset increased costs could result in a decline in margins. We utilize price increases for menu offerings and food products to help offset cost increases, including increased costs for wholesale food, raw materials, distribution, minimum wages, employee benefits, construction, fuel, utility, inflation and other costs. During fiscal 2010, we implemented menu price increases at a significant number of Bob Evans Restaurants and Mimi’s Cafés to help offset operating and supply cost increases. Further federal legislation to increase the minimum wage as well as the tip credit wage we pay to certain staff members receiving guest gratuities is probable, and there may be similar increases implemented in other jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate. Additional minimum wage increases could have a material adverse effect on our labor costs. Our food products business is also sensitive to sow costs. During fiscal 2010, the profitability of our food products segment was negatively impacted by a significant and rapid increase in sow costs compared to previous years. We believe our food products segment will continue to be challenged by high sow costs in fiscal 2011. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and prices to sufficiently account for increased costs, especially further minimum wage increases at the federal and/or state level. Also, because we offer moderately priced food, we may not be able to, or we may choose not to, pass along price increases to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success depends on consumer acceptance of our menu offerings, food products, prices, atmosphere and service procedures. Our success in creating demand for our restaurant menu offerings and food products is dependent on our ability to continue to accurately predict consumer dining and taste preferences and adapt our menu and food products to trends in food consumption. If customer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriately priced menu offerings and food products, it could have a material adverse effect on demand for our menu offerings and food products, which would result in lost customers and a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to keep the atmosphere of our two restaurant concepts relevant and provide satisfactory customer service. If we change a restaurant concept or customer service technique, we may lose customers who do not prefer the changed concept or customer service technique, and we may not be able to attract a sufficient new customer base to produce the revenue needed to make the concept or technique profitable. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We are a highly automated business and rely on our production facilities and our network infrastructure and our Web site for our development, marketing, operational, support, hosted services and sales activities. A disruption, infiltration or failure of these systems or third party hosted services in the event of a major earthquake, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber attack, war, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data. Our food products business has seven manufacturing plants which we believe have adequate capacity to serve their intended purpose. If we were forced to close or delay production at one or more of these plants due to a natural disaster or significant labor issue, we may be unable to increase production at our other plants in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, Mimi’s Cafés rely on a single site prep kitchen for preparation of substantially all of the concept’s signature muffin mixes, dressings, sauces and soups. Any temporary or permanent disruption in the operation of this facility would affect the ability of Mimi’s to serve 23 Table of Contents the full range of menu offerings or require us to obtain these items from alternative sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In fiscal 2009, Hurricane Ike and its remnants affected our business operations as hurricane-force winds caused widespread power outages in parts of the Midwest, primarily Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio. These power outages affected power supply to three Mimi’s Cafés located in Kentucky and Ohio, approximately 60 Bob Evans Restaurants located in Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio and our corporate headquarters in Columbus, Ohio. Additionally, our manufacturing plant in Xenia, Ohio temporarily ceased operations as a result of a power outage. We have developed certain disaster recovery plans and certain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, but a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Our food products business is dependent upon a limited number of suppliers for the production of a significant number of items and relies upon a relatively small number of customers for a large percentage of its sales. Our food products business is dependent upon a limited number of suppliers, and we have not identified secondary suppliers for food products manufactured in our plants. Our prolonged inability to provide products to fill orders in a timely manner would have an adverse effect on both our restaurant and food products businesses and our results of operations. Our food products business also relies upon a relatively small number of customers for a large percentage of its sales. For fiscal 2010, our largest 10 accounts represented approximately 60 percent of our total food products sales, with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (and its affiliates) and The Kroger Co. each accounting for over 10 percent of our food products segment sales. Our inability to maintain strong relationships with our key customers could result in a loss of business, which would have a material adverse effect on our food products business and our results of operations. We are dependent on timely delivery of fresh ingredients by our suppliers. Our restaurant operations are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand, the economy and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. If the variety or quality of our food products declines due to the lack or lower quality of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients, customer traffic may decline and negatively affect our sales. We have contracted with third-party distributors for the delivery of food and other products to our restaurants. If these contracts were suddenly and unexpectedly terminated, supply costs could increase and disruptions in distribution could occur during the transition to other third-party distributors. Our long-term growth strategy depends on opening new restaurants. Our ability to expand our restaurant base is influenced by factors beyond our control, which may further slow restaurant expansion and impair our growth strategy. We are pursuing a moderate and disciplined long-term growth strategy which, to be successful, will depend in large part on our ability to open new restaurants and operate those restaurants on a profitable basis. Currently, we do not believe that our average new restaurant volumes generate a level of return on our development costs that justifies significant expansion of Bob Evans Restaurants or Mimi’s Cafés. We do not intend to substantially increase the construction of new restaurants until the economy improves and we improve “restaurant level economics” by increasing our sales, lowering our labor, purchasing and construction costs and increasing our margins and profitability. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to achieve our expansion goals or operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. One of our biggest challenges in meeting our long-term growth objectives will be to locate and secure an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. We have experienced delays in opening some of our restaurants and may experience delays in the future. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could 24 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on our planned long-term growth strategy. The success of our planned expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • our ability to generate a suitable level of return on the money we invest in new restaurants; • the availability and hiring of qualified personnel; • reliance on management to identify available and suitable restaurant sites; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of favorable purchase or lease terms for restaurant sites; • timely development of new restaurants, including the availability of construction materials and labor; • management of construction and development costs of new restaurants; • securing required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; • cost and availability of capital; • competition in our markets; and • general economic conditions. In addition, we contemplate entering new markets in which we have no operating experience. These new markets may have different demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause the new restaurants to be less successful in these new markets than in our existing markets. Our long-term growth strategy may strain our management, financial and other resources. For instance, our existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources may be inadequate to support our planned expansion of new restaurants. Also, we may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that the planned expansion will impose on our infrastructure and other resources. The growth of our food products sales and profits is dependent upon our ability to expand into existing and new markets. The successful growth of our food products business depends on our ability to expand our reach into existing and new markets through both the retention of new customers and the introduction of new products. The expansion of our food products business depends on our ability to obtain and retain large-account customers, such as grocery store chains and warehouse customers, and enter into long-term contracts with those customers. Our failure to contract with new large-account customers or maintain our contractual relationships with existing large-account customers could have a material adverse effect on our food products business and results of operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to a variety of other factors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: • fluctuations in food and commodity prices, including sow costs; • the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; • restaurant operating costs for our newly opened restaurants, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation; • labor availability and costs for hourly and management personnel; • profitability of our restaurants, especially in new markets; • impairments of long-term assets; 25 Table of Contents • trends in same-store sales; • adverse weather conditions; • special items, such as property sales; • local and national economic conditions, including gasoline and other energy costs; and • changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions. Our restaurant and food products businesses are also subject to seasonal fluctuations. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results, same-store sales and comparable food products sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any fiscal year. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to the factors discussed above, this could result in a decline in our stock price. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly regional and area managers and restaurant general managers. Competition for high-quality employees is intense. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or key team members or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could harm our business. Many factors, including those over which we have no control, affect the trading price of our stock. Factors such as reports on the economy or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report relates directly to our business, could have an impact of the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by stock market conditions, including price and trading fluctuations on the NASDAQ Stock Market, the New York Stock Exchange or other exchanges. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our common stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders, as well as non-operating initiatives such as share repurchase programs. Any failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance, particularly with respect to comparable restaurant sales, revenues, operating margins and earnings per share, would likely cause our stock price to decline. Disruptions in the financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit and consumer spending patterns. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt and to obtain financing for general corporate purposes will depend on our operating and financial performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil in recent months, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States and other governments. These events may adversely impact the availability of credit already arranged, and the availability and cost of credit in the future. There can be no assurances that we will be able to arrange credit on terms we believe are acceptable or that permit us to finance our business with historical margins. These events have also adversely affected the U.S. and world economy, and any new or continuing disruptions in the financial markets may also adversely affect the U.S. and world economy, which could negatively impact consumer spending patterns. There can be no assurances that various U.S. and world government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets in the near future will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity or the availability of credit. There can be no assurances as to how or when this unprecedented period of turmoil will be resolved. As of April 30, 2010, we had available bank lines of credit from two different lenders totaling $120.0 million, consisting of a $75.0 million revolving line of credit (no amount outstanding) and a $45.0 million revolving line of 26 Table of Contents credit ($14.0 million outstanding). We utilize our bank lines of credit for liquidity needs, capital expansion, and general corporate purposes. Under the $75.0 million revolving line of credit, all outstanding amounts become due and payable on April 19, 2011. Under the $45.0 million bank line of credit, all outstanding amounts become due and payable on December 1, 2010, subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of certain specified events of default. If we are unable to extend the maturity date of either line of credit, and we are unable to secure adequate replacement financing on terms we believe are acceptable or at all, there could be a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely affect us. Our credit facilities and the agreements governing our senior notes contain various covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to: incur liens on our assets; merge or consolidate with other entities; transfer or sell a substantial part of our assets; substantially change the nature of our business; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; and enter into transactions with affiliates. The agreements governing our senior notes contain additional restrictive covenants, including financial maintenance requirements relating to our: consolidated net worth; ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated capitalization; ratio of consolidated income available for fixed charges to fixed charges; and levels of priority indebtedness. The covenants contained in our debt instruments could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger, acquisition or other corporate opportunities, to fund our business operations or to successfully implement our current and future operating strategies. A breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. In addition, the agreements governing our senior notes require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control (such as uncertainties related to the current economy), and we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants at all times in the future. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our debt instruments, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot be sure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. Our restaurant business is dependent upon satisfactory customer service, and we may have difficulty hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to deliver appropriate service. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers who can meet the high standards necessary to deliver the levels of food quality and service on which our restaurant concepts are based. The short supply of qualified individuals in some areas could strain our restaurant operations, delay new restaurant openings or require us to increase wages to attract desired individuals, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Also, high rates of employee turnover could have a negative impact on food quality and customer service, which would result in an adverse effect on our restaurant business and results of operations. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand. We believe that our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Our primary trademarks, “Bob Evans®,” “Mimis Cafe®” and “Owens®,” are key components of our operating and marketing strategies. As a result, we devote appropriate resources to the protection of our 27 Table of Contents trademarks and other proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal costs. In addition, third parties might claim that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon their proprietary rights. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current insurance loss estimates may not be adequate and, if claims exceed such estimates, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are self-insured for a significant portion of our current exposures related to our workers’ compensation, general liabilities and employee health insurance programs. Although we base our loss estimates on actuarial data, as well as on our historical trends, we may not be able to accurately predict the number or value of the claims that occur. In particular, health insurance costs have increased significantly over the last 10 years. In the event that our actual liability exceeds our estimate for any given period, or if we are unable to control rapidly increasing health care costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our level of profitability. Adverse weather conditions could harm our sales. Weather conditions can adversely impact sales at our restaurants. Adverse weather conditions, such as snow and ice in the Midwest, that keep customers from dining out, result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. Adverse weather conditions may also cause shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh meat and produce to our restaurants and hamper the distribution of our food products to grocery stores. Adverse weather conditions adversely affected fiscal 2010 fourth quarter restaurant sales. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, certain provisions of Delaware law applicable to our Company could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any “interested shareholder” (as defined in the statute) for a period of three years unless certain conditions are met. In addition, our senior management is entitled to certain payments and rights upon a change in control of our Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 