ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Related to the Explosive Metalworking Industry We have seen a recent slow down in some of our markets and anticipate sales will decline during 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we have seen a slowdown in DMC Clad sales to some of the markets we serve and anticipate our sales to further decrease [approximately 12% - 20%] in 2009 from the amount we achieved in 2008. The explosion-weld cladding market is dependent upon sales of products for use by customers in a limited number of heavy industries, including oil and gas, alternative energy, chemicals and petrochemicals, hydrometallurgy, aluminum production, shipbuilding, power generation, and industrial refrigeration. These industries tend to be cyclical in nature and the current worldwide economic downturn has affected many of these markets. Indeed, we have already seen a slowdown in the chemical, petrochemical and hydrometallurgy sectors. An economic slowdown in one or all of these industries—whether due to traditional cyclicality, general economic conditions or other factors—could impact capital expenditures within the industry. If demand from such industries were to decline or to experience reduced growth rates, our sales would be expected to be affected proportionately, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our backlog figures may not accurately predict future sales. We define "backlog" at any given point in time to consist of all firm, unfulfilled purchase orders and commitments at that time. Generally speaking, we expect to fill most items of backlog within the following 12 months. However, since orders may be rescheduled or canceled and a significant portion of our net sales is derived from a small number of customers, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future sales levels. Moreover, we cannot be sure of when during the future 12-month period we will be able to recognize revenue corresponding to our backlog; nor can we be certain that revenues corresponding to our backlog will not fall into periods beyond the 12-month horizon. There is a limited availability of sites suitable for cladding operations. Our cladding process involves the detonation of large amounts of explosives. As a result, the sites where we perform cladding must meet certain criteria, including lack of proximity to a densely populated area, the specific geological characteristics of the site, and the ability to comply with local noise and vibration abatement regulations in conducting the process. The efforts to identify suitable sites and obtain permits for using the sites from local government agencies can be time-consuming and may not be successful. In addition, we could experience difficulty in obtaining or renewing permits because of resistance from residents in the vicinity of proposed sites. The failure to obtain required governmental approvals or permits could limit our ability to expand our cladding business in the future, and the failure to maintain such permits would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The use of explosives subjects us to additional regulation, and any accidents or injuries could subject us to significant liabilities. Our operations involve the detonation of large amounts of explosives. As a result, we are required to use specific safety precautions under U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines and guidelines of similar entities in Germany, France and Sweden. These include precautions which must be taken to protect employees from exposure to sound and ground vibration or falling debris associated with the detonation of explosives. There is a risk that an accident or death could occur in 15 one of our facilities. Any accident could result in significant manufacturing delays, disruption of operations or claims for damages resulting from death or injuries, which could result in decreased sales and increased expenses. To date, we have not incurred any significant delays, disruptions or claims resulting from accidents at our facilities. The potential liability resulting from any accident or death, to the extent not covered by insurance, may require us to use other funds to satisfy our obligations and could cause our business to suffer. See "Our use of explosives is an inherently dangerous activity that could lead to temporary or permanent closure of our shooting sites" below. Our use of explosives is an inherently dangerous activity that could lead to temporary or permanent closure of our shooting sites. We use a large amount of explosives in connection with the creation of clad metals. The use of explosives is an inherently dangerous activity. Explosions, even if occurring as intended, can lead to damage to the shooting facility or to equipment used at the facility or injury to persons at the facility. If a person were injured or killed in connection with such explosives, or if equipment at the mine or either of the outdoor locations were damaged or destroyed, we might be required to suspend our operations for a period of time while an investigation is undertaken or repairs are made. Such a delay might impact our ability to meet the demand for our products. In addition, if the mine were seriously damaged, we might not be able to locate a suitable replacement site to continue our operations. Certain raw materials we use are subject to supply shortages due to general economic conditions. Although we generally use standard metals and other materials in manufacturing our products, certain materials such as specific grades of carbon steel, titanium, zirconium and nickel can be subject to supply shortages due to general economic conditions or problems with individual suppliers. While we seek to maintain sufficient alternative supply sources for these materials, we may not always be able to obtain sufficient supplies or obtain supplies at acceptable prices without production delays, additional costs, or a loss of product quality. If we were to fail to obtain sufficient supplies on a timely basis or at acceptable prices, such loss or failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Certain raw materials we use are subject to price increases due to general economic conditions. The markets for certain metals and other raw materials used in our business are highly variable and are characterized by periods of increasing prices. While prices for much of the raw materials we use have recently decreased, we may again experience increasing prices. We generally do not hedge commodity prices or enter into forward supply contracts; instead we endeavor to pass along price variations to our customers. We may see a general downturn in business if the price of raw materials increases enough for our customers to delay planned projects or use alternative materials to complete their projects. Risk Factors Related to DYNAwell Potential downturns in the oil and gas industry and related services industry could have a negative impact on DYNAwell's economic success. The oil and gas industry is unpredictable and has historically been subject to occasional downturns. Demand for DYNAwell's products is linked to the financial success of the oil and gas industry as a whole, and downturns in the oil and gas industry, especially in the rate of well drilling, could negatively impact DYNAwell's economic success. Demand for oil and gas drives oil and gas field production and exploration, and with it the demand for services and products produced by DYNAwell. A variety of factors affect the demand for DYNAwell products, including governmental regulation of oil and gas 16 industry and markets, international and domestic prices for oil and gas, weather conditions, the financial condition of DYNAwell's clients, and consumption patterns of oil and gas. The manufacturing of explosives subjects DYNAwell to various environmental, health and safety laws. DYNAwell is subject to a number of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in significant penalties. DYNAwell's continued success depends on continued compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, new environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could be passed which could create costly compliance issues. While DYNAwell endeavors to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, compliance with future laws and regulations may not be economically feasible or even possible. DYNAwell's continued economic success depends on remaining at the forefront of innovation in the perforating industry. DYNAwell's position in the perforation market depends in part on its ability to remain an innovative leader in the field. The ability to remain competitive depends in part on the retention of talented personnel. DYNAwell may be unable to remain an innovative leader in the perforation market segment or may be unable to retain top talent in the field. Risk Factors Related to Dynamic Materials Corporation Weakness in the general global economy may adversely affect certain segments of our end market customers and reduce our sales and results of operations. We supply products to customers that fabricate industrial equipment for various capital-intensive industries. The current weakness in the general global economy may adversely affect our end market customers, causing them to cancel or postpone new plant or infrastructure construction, expansion, maintenance, or retrofitting projects that use our DMC Clad products. Similarly, decreased oil and gas well drilling will reduce the sales of our DYNAwell products. Any decrease in the demand for gas turbines and airplane engines will reduce the demand for the work performed by our AMK division. While to date we have not experienced postponements or cancellations of projects important to us, we anticipate a slowing demand from our end-market customers. The global general economic climate may lessen demand for our products and reduce our sales and results of operations. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in annual and quarterly operating results caused by various factors, including the timing and size of orders by major customers, customer inventory levels, shifts in product mix, acquisitions and divestitures, and general economic conditions. The upstream oil and gas, oil refinery, chemical and petrochemical, hydrometallurgy, aluminum production, shipbuilding, power generation, industrial refrigeration and other diversified industries to which we sell our products are, to varying degrees, cyclical and tend to decline in response to overall declines in industrial production. As a result, our business is also cyclical, and the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, on overall levels of industrial production. Any future material weakness in demand in any of these industries could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, the threat of terrorism and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a negative impact on the global economy, the industries we serve and our operating results. We typically do not obtain long-term volume purchase contracts from our customers. Quarterly sales and operating results, therefore, depend on the volume and timing of the orders in our backlog as well as bookings received during the quarter. Significant portions of our operating expenses are fixed, and planned expenditures are based primarily on sales forecasts and product development programs. If sales do not meet our expectations in any given period, the adverse impact on operating results may be 17 magnified by our inability to adjust operating expenses sufficiently or quickly enough to compensate for such a shortfall. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results for any future period. Fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Customers have the right to change orders until products are completed. Customers have the right to change orders after they have been placed. If orders are changed, the extra expenses associated with the change will be passed on to the customer. However, because a change in an order may delay completion of the project, recognition of income for the project may also be delayed. There is no assurance that we will continue to compete successfully against other clad, perforating, and welding companies. Our explosion-welded clad products compete with explosion-welded clad products made by other manufacturers in the clad metal business located throughout the world and with clad products manufactured using other technologies. Our combined North American and European operations typically supply explosion-welded clad to the worldwide market. There is one other well-known explosion-welded clad supplier worldwide, a division of Asahi-Kasei Corporation of Japan. There are also a number of smaller companies worldwide with explosion-welded clad manufacturing capability, including several companies in China. There are currently no other significant North American based explosion-welded clad suppliers. We focus strongly on reliability, product quality, on-time delivery performance, and low cost manufacturing to minimize the potential of future competitive threats. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to maintain our competitive position. Explosion-welded clad products also compete with those manufactured by rollbond and weld overlay cladding processes. In rollbond technology, the clad and base metal are bonded together during a hot rolling process in which slab is converted to plate. In weld overlay, which is typically performed by our fabricator customers, the cladding layer is deposited on the base metal through a fusion welding process. The technical and commercial niches of each cladding process are well understood within the industry and vary from one world market location to another. Our products compete with weld overlay clad products manufactured by a significant number of our fabricator customers. DYNAwell competes principally with perforating companies based in North and South America who produce and market perforating services and products. DYNAwell also competes with oil and gas service companies who are able to satisfy a portion of their perforating needs through in-house production. To remain competitive, DYNAwell must continue to provide innovative products and maintain an excellent reputation for quality, safety, and value. There can be no assurances that we will continue to compete successfully against these companies. AMK Welding competes principally with other domestic companies that provide welding services to the aircraft engine and power generation industries. Some of these competitors have established positions in the market and long standing relationships with customers. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and provide technologically advanced welding, heat-treat and inspection services, maintain quality levels, offer flexible delivery schedules, and compete favorably on the basis of price. We compete against other welding companies on the basis of quality, performance and cost. There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete successfully against these companies. We are dependent on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales. A significant portion of our net sales is derived from a relatively small number of customers although sales to no one customer exceeded 10% during any of the last three years. We expect to 18 continue to depend upon our principal customers for a significant portion of our sales, although our principal customers may not continue to purchase products and services from us at current levels, if at all. The loss of one or more major customers or a change in their buying patterns could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In past years, the majority of DMC Clad's revenues have been derived from customers in the oil and gas, alternative energy, chemicals and petrochemicals, hydrometallurgy, aluminum production, shipbuilding, power generation and industrial refrigeration industries and the majority of AMK Welding's revenues have been derived from customers in the aircraft engine and power generation industries. Economic downturns in these industries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. DYNAwell, which is expected to contribute approximately 15% to our 2009 sales, has customers throughout the world. The Russian market is currently DYNAwell's largest market with more than 30% of its sales coming from that market. Economic or political instability in Russia could have a material adverse affect on DYNAwell's business and operating results. AMK Welding, which is expected to contribute approximately 5% to our 2009 sales, continues to rely primarily on one customer for the majority of its sales. This customer and AMK Welding have entered into a long-term supply agreement for certain of the services provided to this customer. Any termination of or significant reduction in AMK Welding's business relationship with this customer could have a material adverse effect on AMK Welding's business and operating results. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our current operations. Our continued success depends to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of key managerial and technical employees. The loss of services of certain of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such individuals on acceptable terms, if at all; and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Liabilities under environmental and safety laws could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our facilities, substantial civil or criminal liabilities, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. We are subject to extensive environmental and safety regulation in the United States and Europe. Any failure to comply with current and future environmental and safety regulations could subject us to significant liabilities. In particular, any failure to control the discharge of hazardous materials and wastes could subject us to significant liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We and all our activities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including but not limited to, noise abatement and air emissions regulations, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, regulations issued and laws enforced by the labor and employment departments of the U.S. and the states in which we conduct business, by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and by state and local health and safety agencies. In Germany, we and all our activities are subject to various safety and environmental regulations of the federal state which are enforced by the local authorities, including the Federal Act on Emission Control (Bundesimmissionsschutzgesetz). The Federal Act on Emission Control permits are held by companies jointly owned by DYNAenergetics and the other companies that are located at the Würgendorf and Troisdorf manufacturing sites and are for an indefinite period of time. In France, we and all our activities are subject to state environmental and safety regulations established by various departments of 19 the French Government, including the Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of Ecology and the Ministry of Industry, and to local environmental and safety regulations and administrative procedures established by DRIRE (Direction Régionale de l'Industrie, de la Recherche et de l'Environnement) and the Préfecture des Pyrénées Orientales. In Sweden, we and all our activities are subject to various safety and environmental regulations, including those established by the Work Environment Authority of Sweden in its Work Environment Act. In addition, our shooting operations in Germany, France and Sweden may be particularly vulnerable to noise abatement regulations because these operations are primarily conducted outdoors. The Dillenburg facility is operated based on a mountain plan ("Bergplan"), which is a specific permit granted by the local mountain authority. This permit must be renewed every three years. Changes in or compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require modifications to our facilities. Any actual or alleged violations of environmental and safety laws could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our facilities, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability under applicable law. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessor's past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety matters may result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities. We are subject to extensive government regulation and failure to comply could subject us to future liabilities and could adversely affect our ability to conduct or to expand our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation in the United States, Germany, France and Sweden, including guidelines and regulations for the safe manufacture, handling, transport and storage of explosives issued by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations set forth by the U.S. Department of Transportation; the Safety Library Publications of the Institute of Makers of Explosive; and similar guidelines of their European counterparts. In Germany, the transport, storage and use of explosives is governed by a permit issued under the Explosives Act (Sprengstoffgesetz). In Sweden, our purchase, transport, storage and use of explosives is governed by a permit issued to us by the Police Authority of the County of Varmland. In France, the manufacture and transportation of explosives is subcontracted to a third party which is responsible for compliance with regulations established by various State and local governmental agencies concerning the handling and transportation of explosives.. Our French operations could be adversely affected if the third party does not comply with these regulations. We must comply with licensing and regulations for the purchase, transport, storage, manufacture, handling and use of explosives. In addition, while our shooting facilities in Würgendorf and Troisdorf, Germany, France and Sweden are located outdoors, our shooting facilities located in Pennsylvania and in Dillenburg, Germany are located in mines, which subjects us to certain regulations and oversight of governmental agencies that oversee mines. We are also subject to extensive environmental and occupational safety regulation, as described below under "Liabilities under environmental and safety laws could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our facilities, substantial civil or criminal liabilities, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability" and "The use of explosives subjects us to additional regulation, and any accidents or injuries could subject us to significant liabilities." The export of certain products from the United States or from foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies is restricted by U.S. and similar foreign export regulations. These regulations generally prevent the export of products that could be used by certain end users, such as those in the nuclear or biochemical industries. In addition, the use and handling of explosives may be subject to increased regulation due to heightened concerns about security and terrorism. Such regulations could restrict our 20 ability to access and use explosives and increase costs associated with the use of such explosives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any failure to comply with current and future regulations in the U.S. and Europe could subject us to future liabilities. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities, construct new facilities, or compete in certain markets or could require us to incur other significant expenses in order to maintain compliance. Accordingly, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected by our non-compliance with applicable regulations, by any significant limitations on our business as a result of our inability to comply with applicable regulations, or by any requirement that we spend substantial amounts of capital to comply with such regulations. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may make it substantially more difficult or expensive for us to produce our products, which could result in decreased sales or increased costs, either of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters, particularly in Germany, France, and Sweden, where some of our employees are unionized. The employees at our U.S. facilities, where the majority of products are manufactured, are not unionized. While we believe our relations with employees are satisfactory, any prolonged work stoppage or strike at any one of our principal facilities could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have not experienced a strike or work stoppage in the last 3 year. However, if a work stoppage occurs at one or more of our facilities, it may materially impair our ability to operate our business in the future. As we regularly test the value of goodwill associated with our recent acquisitions, economic conditions may lead to a impairment of such goodwill. We review the carrying value of goodwill at least annually to assess impairment because it is not amortized. Additionally, we review the carrying value of any intangible asset or goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. At the end of 2008, we reviewed the carrying value of our goodwill. In reviewing the goodwill associated with the DYNAwell business we acquired in 2007, we estimated that the fair value of this business unit was only slightly greater than the carrying value of the associated net assets, including goodwill. While we did not recognize impairment of the DYNAwell goodwill during the 2008 fiscal year, we plan to review its carrying value again in the next few months. If the DYNAwell business does not perform as well as we expected when we estimated its fair value or if other conditions in the capital markets and general economy change the assumptions we used in this valuation, then we may be required to recognize an impairment of the goodwill associated with that business. We are exposed to potentially volatile fluctuations of the U.S. dollar (our reporting currency) against the currencies of many of our operating subsidiaries. Many of our operating subsidiaries conduct business in Euros or other foreign currency. Any increase (decrease) in the value of the U.S. dollar against any foreign currency that is the functional currency of any of our operating subsidiaries will cause us to experience unrealized foreign currency translation losses (gains) with respect to amounts already invested in such foreign currencies. In addition, our company and our operating subsidiaries are exposed to foreign currency risk to the extent that we or they enter into transactions denominated in currencies other than our or their respective functional currencies. For example DYNAwell's functional currency is Euros, but its sales often occur in U.S. dollars. Changes in exchange rates with respect to these items will result in unrealized (based upon period-end exchange rates) or realized foreign currency transaction gains and losses upon settlement of the transactions. In addition, we are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations related to our operating subsidiaries' assets and liabilities and to the financial results of foreign subsidiaries and 21 affiliates when their respective financial statements are translated into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Cumulative translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of equity. As a result of foreign currency risk, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings and equity with respect to our holdings solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The primary exposure to foreign currency risk for us is to the Euro due to the percentage of our U.S. dollar revenue that is derived from countries where the Euro is the functional currency. The unsuccessful integration of a business we acquire could have a material adverse effect on operating results. We continue to consider possible acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. Any potential acquisition may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage and dilution to existing stockholders. We may be unable to consummate any future acquisition. If any acquisition is made, we may not be able to integrate such acquisition successfully without a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 