ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Related to our NobelClad Segment NobelClad operates a cyclical business and its sales are only slowly improving from the significant decline in sales experienced in 2009 and 2010. NobelClad operates a somewhat cyclical business. Beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2010, NobelClad's sales in some of its markets slowed down, resulting in declines of 31.2% and 26.5% in year-to-date 2009 and 2010 sales respectively. While NobelClad's sales increased in 2011, its annual sales for 2011, 2012 and 2013 were 35.3%, 40.9% and 39.4%, respectively, below the amount of its peak sales in 2008. At December 31, 2007 and 2008, order backlog was $100.0 million and $97.2 million, respectively. Year-end backlog was $49.6 million, $56.5 million, $44.6 million, $46.4 million and $39.9 million, respectively, in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. The explosion-weld cladding market is dependent upon sales of products for use by customers in a limited number of heavy industries, including oil and gas, alternative energy, chemicals and petrochemicals, hydrometallurgy, aluminum production, shipbuilding, power generation, and industrial refrigeration. These industries tend to be cyclical in nature and an economic slowdown in one or all of these industries—whether due to traditional cyclicality, general economic conditions or other factors—could impact capital expenditures within that industry. If demand from such industries were to decline or to experience reduced growth rates, our sales would be expected to be affected proportionately, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our backlog figures may not accurately predict future sales. We define “backlog” at any given point in time to consist of all firm, unfulfilled purchase orders and commitments at that time. Generally speaking, we expect to fill most items of backlog within the following 12 months. However, since orders may be rescheduled or canceled and a significant portion of our net sales is derived from a small number of customers, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future sales levels. Moreover, we cannot be sure of when during the future 12-month period we will be able to recognize revenue corresponding to our backlog nor can we be certain that revenues corresponding to our backlog will not fall into periods beyond the 12-month horizon. The percentage increase or decrease in NobelClad's annual sales may be substantially greater or less than the change in backlog at the previous year-end. There is a limited availability of sites suitable for cladding operations. Our cladding process involves the detonation of large amounts of explosives. As a result, the sites where we perform cladding must meet certain criteria, including lack of proximity to a densely populated area, the specific geological characteristics of the site, and the ability to comply with local noise and vibration abatement regulations in conducting the process. In addition, our primary U.S. shooting site is subleased under an arrangement pursuant to which we provide certain contractual services to the sub-landlord. The efforts to identify suitable sites and obtain permits for using the sites from local government agencies can be time-consuming and may not be successful. In addition, we could experience difficulty in obtaining or renewing permits because of resistance from residents in the vicinity of proposed sites. The failure to obtain required governmental approvals or permits could limit our ability to expand our cladding business in the future, and the failure to maintain such permits or satisfy other conditions to use the sites would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13The use of explosives subjects us to additional regulation, and any accidents or injuries could subject us to significant liabilities. Our operations involve the detonation of large amounts of explosives. As a result, we are required to use specific safety precautions under U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines and guidelines of similar entities in Germany and France. These include precautions which must be taken to protect employees from exposure to sound and ground vibration or falling debris associated with the detonation of explosives. There is a risk that an accident or death could occur in one of our facilities. Any accident could result in significant manufacturing delays, disruption of operations or claims for damages resulting from death or injuries, which could result in decreased sales and increased expenses. To date, we have not incurred any significant delays, disruptions or claims resulting from accidents at our facilities. The potential liability resulting from any accident or death, to the extent not covered by insurance, may require us to use other funds to satisfy our obligations and could cause our business to suffer. See “Our use of explosives is an inherently dangerous activity that could lead to temporary or permanent closure of our NobelClad shooting sites or DynaEnergetics manufacturing facilities” under "Risk Factors Related to Dynamic Materials Corporation" below.Certain raw materials we use are subject to supply shortages due to general economic conditions. Although we generally use standard metals and other materials in manufacturing our products, certain materials such as specific grades of carbon steel, titanium, zirconium and nickel can be subject to supply shortages due to general economic conditions or problems with individual suppliers. While we seek to maintain sufficient alternative supply sources for these materials, we may not always be able to obtain sufficient supplies or obtain supplies at acceptable prices without production delays, additional costs, or a loss of product quality. If we were to fail to obtain sufficient supplies on a timely basis or at acceptable prices, such loss or failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Certain raw materials NobelClad uses are subject to price increases due to general economic conditions. The markets for certain metals and other raw materials used by NobelClad are highly variable and are characterized by periods of increasing prices. While prices for much of the raw materials we use have recently decreased, we may again experience increasing prices. We generally do not hedge commodity prices or enter into forward supply contracts; instead we endeavor to pass along price variations to our customers. We may see a general downturn in business if the price of raw materials increases enough for our customers to delay planned projects or use alternative materials to complete their projects. Risk Factors Related to DynaEnergetics The manufacturing of explosives subjects DynaEnergetics to various environmental, health and safety laws. DynaEnergetics is subject to a number of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in significant penalties. DynaEnergetics’ continued success depends on continued compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, new environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could be passed which could create costly compliance issues. While DynaEnergetics endeavors to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, compliance with future laws and regulations may not be economically feasible or even possible. DynaEnergetics’ continued economic success depends on remaining at the forefront of innovation in the perforating industry. DynaEnergetics’ position in the perforation market depends in part on its ability to remain an innovative leader in the field. The ability to remain competitive depends in part on the retention of talented personnel. DynaEnergetics may be unable to remain an innovative leader in the perforation market segment or may be unable to retain top talent in the field.Potential downturns in the oil and gas industry and related services industry could have a negative impact on DynaEnergetics’s economic success. The oil and gas industry is unpredictable and has historically been subject to occasional downturns. Demand for DynaEnergetics’ products is linked to the financial success of the oil and gas industry as a whole, and downturns in the oil and gas industry, especially in the rate of well drilling, could negatively impact DynaEnergetics’ economic success. A variety of factors affect the demand for DynaEnergetics products, including governmental regulation of oil and gas industry and markets, international and domestic prices for oil and gas, weather conditions, the financial condition of DynaEnergetics’ clients, and consumption patterns of oil and gas. 14Risk Factors Related to Dynamic Materials Corporation Our use of explosives is an inherently dangerous activity that could lead to temporary or permanent closure of our NobelClad shooting sites and DynaEnergetics manufacturing facilities. We use a large amount of explosives in connection with the creation of clad metals and manufacturing of perforating shaped charges and detonation cord. The use of explosives is an inherently dangerous activity. Explosions, even if occurring as intended, can lead to damage to the shooting site or manufacturing facility or to equipment used at the facility or injury to persons at the facility. If a person were injured or killed in connection with such explosives, or if equipment at the shooting site or manufacturing facility were damaged or destroyed, we might be required to suspend our operations for a period of time while an investigation is undertaken or repairs are made. Such a delay might impact our ability to meet the demand for our products. In addition, if the mine were seriously damaged, we might not be able to locate a suitable replacement site to continue our operations.Weakness in the general global economy may adversely affect certain segments of our end market customers and reduce our sales and results of operations. We supply products to customers that fabricate industrial equipment for various capital-intensive industries. Weakness in the general global economy may adversely affect our end market customers, causing them to cancel or postpone new plant or infrastructure construction, expansion, maintenance, or retrofitting projects that use our NobelClad products. Similarly, any decrease in oil and gas well drilling activities will reduce the sales of our DynaEnergetics products. Any decrease in the demand for gas turbines and airplane engines will reduce the demand for the work performed by our AMK division. The global general economic climate may lessen demand for our products and reduce our sales and results of operations. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in annual and quarterly operating results caused by various factors, including the timing and size of significant orders by customers, customer inventory levels, shifts in product mix, acquisitions and divestitures, and general economic conditions. The upstream oil and gas, oil refinery, chemical and petrochemical, hydrometallurgy, aluminum production, shipbuilding, power generation, industrial refrigeration and other diversified industries to which we sell our products are, to varying degrees, cyclical and tend to decline in response to overall declines in industrial production. As a result, our business is also cyclical, and the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, on overall levels of industrial production. Any future material weakness in demand in any of these industries could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, the threat of terrorism and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a negative impact on the global economy, the industries we serve and our operating results. We typically do not obtain long-term volume purchase contracts from our customers. Quarterly sales and operating results, therefore, depend on the volume and timing of the orders in our backlog as well as bookings received during the quarter. Significant portions of our operating expenses are fixed, and planned expenditures are based primarily on sales forecasts and product development programs. If sales do not meet our expectations in any given period, the adverse impact on operating results may be magnified by our inability to adjust operating expenses sufficiently or quickly enough to compensate for such a shortfall. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results for any future period. Fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We are exposed to potentially volatile fluctuations of the U.S. dollar (our reporting currency) against the currencies of many of our operating subsidiaries. Many of our operating subsidiaries conduct business in Euros or other foreign currency. Sales made in currencies other than U.S. dollars accounted for 35%, 37%, and 34% of total sales for the years ended 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Any increase (decrease) in the value of the U.S. dollar against any foreign currency that is the functional currency of any of our operating subsidiaries will cause us to experience foreign currency translation losses (gains) with respect to amounts already invested in such foreign currencies. In addition, our company and our operating subsidiaries are exposed to foreign currency risk to the extent that we or they enter into transactions denominated in currencies other than our or their respective functional currencies. For example DYNAenergetics KG’s functional currency is Euros, but its sales often occur in U.S. dollars. Changes in exchange rates with respect to these items will result in unrealized (based upon period-end exchange rates) or realized foreign currency transaction gains and losses upon settlement of the transactions. In addition, we are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations related to our operating subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities and to the financial results of foreign subsidiaries and affiliates when their respective financial statements are translated into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Cumulative translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of equity. As a result of 15foreign currency risk, we may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings and equity with respect to our holdings solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The primary exposure to foreign currency risk for us is to the Euro due to the percentage of our U.S. dollar revenue that is derived from countries where the Euro is the functional currency.We are dependent on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales. A significant portion of our net sales is derived from a relatively small number of customers; therefore, the failure to complete existing contracts on a timely basis, to receive payment for such services in a timely manner, or to enter into future contracts at projected volumes and profitability levels could adversely affect our ability to meet cash requirements exclusively through operating activities. We attempt to minimize the risk of losing customers or specific contracts by continually improving product quality, delivering product on time and competing aggressively on the basis of price. We expect to continue to depend upon our principal customers for a significant portion of our sales, although our principal customers may not continue to purchase products and services from us at current levels, if at all. The loss of one or more major customers or a change in their buying patterns could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In past years, the majority of NobelClad’s revenues have been derived from customers in the oil and gas, alternative energy, chemicals and petrochemicals, hydrometallurgy, aluminum production, shipbuilding, power generation and industrial refrigeration industries and the majority of AMK Technical Services’ revenues have been derived from customers in the aircraft engine and power generation industries. Economic downturns in these industries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. DynaEnergetics, which contributed approximately 39% to our 2012 sales, has customers throughout the world. Economic or political instability in certain regions of the world where DynaEnergetics conducts a significant volume of its business, such as Russia, could have a material adverse effect on DynaEnergetics’ business and operating results. AMK Technical Services, contributed approximately 4% to our 2012 sales, continues to rely primarily on one customer for the majority of its sales. This customer and AMK Technical Services have entered into a long-term supply agreement for certain of the services provided to this customer. Any termination of or significant reduction in AMK Technical Services’ business relationship with this customer could have a material adverse effect on AMK Technical Services’ business and operating results.Customers have the right to change orders until products are completed. Customers have the right to change orders after they have been placed. If orders are changed, the extra expenses associated with the change will be passed on to the customer. However, because a change in an order may delay completion of the project, recognition of income for the project may also be delayed. There is no assurance that we will continue to compete successfully against other clad, perforating, and welding companies. Our explosion-welded clad products compete with explosion-welded clad products made by other manufacturers in the clad metal business located throughout the world and with clad products manufactured using other technologies. Our combined North American and European operations typically supply explosion-welded clad to the worldwide market. There is one other well-known explosion-welded clad supplier worldwide, a division of Asahi-Kasei Corporation of Japan. There are also a number of smaller companies worldwide with explosion-welded clad manufacturing capability, including several companies in China that appear to be growing significantly in their domestic market. There are currently no other significant North American based explosion-welded clad suppliers. We focus strongly on reliability, product quality, on-time delivery performance, and low cost manufacturing to minimize the potential of future competitive threats. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to maintain our competitive position. Explosion-welded clad products also compete with those manufactured by rollbond and weld overlay cladding processes. In rollbond technology, the clad and base metal are bonded together during a hot rolling process in which slab is converted to plate. In weld overlay, which is typically performed by our fabricator customers, the cladding layer is deposited on the base metal through a fusion welding process. The technical and commercial niches of each cladding process are well understood within the industry and vary from one world market location to another. Our products compete with weld overlay clad products manufactured by a significant number of our fabricator customers. DynaEnergetics competes principally with perforating companies based in North America, South America, and Russia who produce and market perforating services and products. DynaEnergetics also competes with oil and gas service companies who are able to satisfy a portion of their perforating needs through in-house production. To remain competitive, DynaEnergetics must 16continue to provide innovative products and maintain an excellent reputation for quality, safety, and value. There can be no assurances that we will continue to compete successfully against these companies. AMK Technical Services competes principally with other domestic companies that provide welding services to the aircraft engine and power generation industries. Some of these competitors have established positions in the market and long standing relationships with customers. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and provide technologically advanced welding, heat-treat and inspection services, maintain quality levels, offer flexible delivery schedules, and compete favorably on the basis of price. We compete against other welding companies on the basis of quality, performance and cost. There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete successfully against these companies.Failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our current operations. Our continued success depends to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of key managerial and technical employees. The loss of services of certain of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such individuals on acceptable terms, if at all; and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Liabilities under environmental and safety laws could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our facilities, substantial civil or criminal liabilities, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. We are subject to extensive environmental and safety regulation in the countries where our manufacturing facilities are located. Any failure to comply with current and future environmental and safety regulations could subject us to significant liabilities. In particular, any failure to control the discharge of hazardous materials and wastes could subject us to significant liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We and all our activities in the United States are subject to federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including but not limited to, noise abatement and air emissions regulations, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, regulations issued and laws enforced by the labor and employment departments of the U.S. and the states in which we conduct business, by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and by state and local health and safety agencies. In Germany, we and all our activities are subject to various safety and environmental regulations of the federal state which are enforced by the local authorities, including the Federal Act on Emission Control (Bundesimmissionsschutzgesetz). The Federal Act on Emission Control permits are held by companies jointly owned by DYNAenergetics and the other companies that are located at the Würgendorf and Troisdorf manufacturing sites and are for an indefinite period of time. In France, we and all our activities are subject to state environmental and safety regulations established by various departments of the French Government, including the Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of Ecology and the Ministry of Industry, and to local environmental and safety regulations and administrative procedures established by DRIRE (Direction Régionale de l’Industrie, de la Recherche et de l’Environnement) and the Préfecture des Pyrénées Orientales. In addition, our shooting operations in Germany and France may be particularly vulnerable to noise abatement regulations because these operations are primarily conducted outdoors. The Dillenburg, Germany facility is operated based on a mountain plan (“Bergplan”), which is a specific permit granted by the local mountain authority. This permit must be renewed every three years. Changes in or compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require modifications to our facilities. Any actual or alleged violations of environmental and safety laws could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our facilities, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability under applicable law. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessor’s past or present facilities and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety matters may result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities. We are subject to extensive government regulation and failure to comply could subject us to future liabilities and could adversely affect our ability to conduct or to expand our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation in the United States, Germany, France, Canada, Russia and Kazakhstan, including guidelines and regulations for the safe manufacture, handling, transport and storage of explosives issued by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations set forth by the U.S. Department of Transportation; the Safety Library Publications of the Institute of Makers of Explosive; and similar guidelines of their European counterparts. In Germany, the transport, storage and use of explosives is governed by a permit issued under the Explosives Act (Sprengstoffgesetz). In France, the manufacture and transportation of explosives is subcontracted to a third party which is responsible for compliance with regulations established by various State and local governmental agencies concerning the handling 17and transportation of explosives. Our French operations could be adversely affected if the third party does not comply with these regulations. We must comply with licensing and regulations for the purchase, transport, storage, manufacture, handling and use of explosives. In addition, while our shooting facilities in Würgendorf and Troisdorf, Germany and Tautavel, France are located outdoors, our shooting facilities located in Pennsylvania and in Dillenburg, Germany are located in mines, which subject us to certain regulations and oversight of governmental agencies that oversee mines. We are also subject to extensive environmental and occupational safety regulation, as described below under “Liabilities under environmental and safety laws could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our facilities, substantial civil or criminal liabilities, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability” and “The use of explosives subjects us to additional regulation, and any accidents or injuries could subject us to significant liabilities.” The export of certain products from the United States or from foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies is restricted by U.S. and similar foreign export regulations. These regulations generally prevent the export of products that could be used by certain end users, such as those in the nuclear or biochemical industries. In addition, the use and handling of explosives may be subject to increased regulation due to heightened concerns about security and terrorism. Such regulations could restrict our ability to access and use explosives and increase costs associated with the use of such explosives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any failure to comply with current and future regulations in the countries where we operate could subject us to future liabilities. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities, construct new facilities, or compete in certain markets or could require us to incur other significant expenses in order to maintain compliance. Accordingly, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected by our non-compliance with applicable regulations, by any significant limitations on our business as a result of our inability to comply with applicable regulations, or by any requirement that we spend substantial amounts of capital to comply with such regulations.Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may make it substantially more difficult or expensive for us to produce our products, which could result in decreased sales or increased costs, either of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters, particularly in Germany and France, where some of our employees are unionized. The employees at our U.S. and Canadian facilities, where a significant portion of our products are manufactured, are not unionized. While we believe our relations with employees are satisfactory, any prolonged work stoppage or strike at any one of our principal facilities could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have not experienced a strike or work stoppage in the last 3 years. However, if a work stoppage occurs at one or more of our facilities, it may materially impair our ability to operate our business in the future. The terms of our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants, the breach of any of which could result in acceleration of payment of our credit facilities. We are parties to a syndicated credit agreement that, as of December 31, 2013, had an outstanding balance of approximately $29.3 million. Our credit agreement includes various covenants and restrictions, certain of which relate to the incurrence of additional indebtedness; mortgaging, pledging or disposition of major assets; and limits on capital expenditures and other investments. We are also required to maintain certain financial ratios on a quarterly basis. A breach of any of these covenants could result in acceleration of our obligations to repay our debt. As of December 31, 2012, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and other provisions of the credit agreement and our other loan agreements. However, our ability to comply with these covenants and ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Any failure to remain in compliance with any material provision or covenant of our credit agreement could result in a default which would, absent a waiver or amendment, require immediate repayment of outstanding indebtedness under our credit facilities. It may be difficult to liquidate assets sufficient to immediately repay our outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility. The unsuccessful integration of a business we acquire could have a material adverse effect on operating results. We continue to consider possible acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. Any potential acquisition may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage and dilution to existing stockholders. We may be unable to consummate any future acquisition. If any acquisition is made, we may not be able to integrate such acquisition successfully without a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.18ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.