Item 1A. Risk Factors These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. The following risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results. Risks Relating to Current Economic Conditions Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our merchandise, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The current global financial crisis has broadened and intensified, reaching unprecedented levels. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. Some of the factors impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and employment, consumer debt, the availability of customer credit, currency exchange rates, reductions in net worth based on recent severe market declines, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. The downturn in the economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic, capital and credit market conditions will continue and what impact they will have on our business. In addition, the current credit crisis is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this crisis on our suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of our suppliers to access liquidity or trade credit could lead to delays or failures in delivery of merchandise to us. The global economic crisis could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. The current distress in the financial markets has resulted in extreme volatility in security prices and has had a negative impact on credit availability, and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. Although we believe that our existing cash will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current credit crisis, tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness and enter into agreements for new indebtedness. We have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. With the current financial environment and the instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits. Risks Relating to Our Company Fluctuations in consumer preference may adversely affect the demand for our products and result in a decline in our sales. Our retail value-priced jewelry and accessories business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences. If we are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, our sales may decline, and we may be faced with excess inventories. If this occurs, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, if we miscalculate customer tastes and our customers come to believe that we are no longer able to offer merchandise that appeals to them, our brand image may suffer. 12 Table of Contents Advance purchases of our merchandise make us vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and pricing shifts and may negatively affect our results of operations. Fluctuations in the demand for retail jewelry and accessories especially affect the inventory we sell because we usually order our merchandise in advance of the applicable season and sometimes before trends are identified or evidenced by customer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we and other retailers generally build up inventory levels. We must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise with our suppliers in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and it is more difficult for us to respond to new or changing customer needs. Our financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to manage inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in client demand patterns. Inventory levels in excess of client demand may result in excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. If we underestimate demand for our merchandise, on the other hand, we may experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales and lost revenues. Either of these events could negatively affect our operating results and brand image. A disruption of imports from our foreign suppliers may increase our costs and reduce our supply of merchandise. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We purchased merchandise from approximately 900 suppliers in Fiscal 2008. Approximately 85% of our Fiscal 2008 merchandise was purchased from suppliers outside the United States, including approximately 60% purchased from China. Any event causing a sudden disruption of imports from China or other foreign countries, including political and financial instability, would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our products currently are manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the United States and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes and customs restrictions, on merchandise that we purchase could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The United States has previously imposed trade quotas on specific categories of goods and apparel imported from China, and may impose additional quotas in the future. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. As a result, our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. We are also exposed to the gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our Consolidated Financial Statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, if China further adjusts the exchange rate of the Chinese yuan, we will likely experience an increase in the cost of our merchandise purchased from China. Our business depends on the willingness of vendors and service providers to supply us with goods and services pursuant to customary credit arrangements which may not be available to us in the future. Like most companies in the retail sector, we purchase goods and services from trade creditors pursuant to customary credit arrangements. If we are unable to maintain or obtain trade credit from vendors and service providers on terms favorable to us, or at all, or if vendors and service providers are unable to obtain trade credit or factor their receivables, then we may not be able to execute our business plan, develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business. In addition, the tightening of trade credit could limit our available liquidity. 13 Table of Contents We are continuing to execute our strategy in Europe to centralize certain resources and this process involves costs and the risk of operational interruption. As the European market continues to grow and become an increasing larger share of operations, we believe we need to have the resources close at hand to the European operations, so we implemented our Pan European Transformation (“PET”) project in Fiscal 2008. As part of the PET project, we have transitioned an integrated merchandising team to Europe to focus on our European operations. We are in the process of finalizing other aspects of the PET project, including centralization of our European finance department. This strategy is designed to improve operating efficiencies and lower costs, but will result in costs in the short-term. We incurred $9.1 million of costs associated with the PET project in Fiscal 2008. As we complete the final stages of our PET project, we may experience operational interruptions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The failure to grow our store base in Europe or expand our international franchising may adversely affect our business. Our growth plans include expanding our store base in Europe. Our ability to grow successfully outside of North America depends in part on determining a sustainable formula to build customer loyalty and gain market share in certain especially challenging international retail environments. Additionally, the integration of our operations in foreign countries presents certain challenges not necessarily presented in the integration of our North American operations. We plan to expand into new countries through organic growth and by entering into franchising and merchandising agreements with unaffiliated third parties who are familiar with the local retail environment and have sufficient retail experience to operate stores in accordance with our business model, which requires strict adherence to the guidelines established by us in our franchising agreements. Failure to identify appropriate franchisees or negotiate acceptable terms in our franchising and merchandising agreements that meet our financial targets would adversely affect our international expansion goals, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and impede our strategy of increasing our net sales through expansion. Additionally, future store openings in Asia are currently subject to our 50:50 joint venture agreement with AEON Co. Ltd. Our cost of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state, local and international regulations regarding the content of our merchandise. On August 14, 2008, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (“CPSIA”) became law. In general, the CPSIA bans the sale of children’s products containing lead in excess of certain maximum standards, and imposes other restrictions and requirements on the sale of children’s products, including importing, testing and labeling requirements. Accordingly, merchandise covered by the CPSIA that is sold to our younger (ages 7 to 12) and youngest (ages 3 to 6) customers is subject to the CPSIA. Although we had procedures in place prior to the adoption of the CPSIA to address many of the requirements set forth in the CPSIA, our inability to timely comply with these regulatory changes, or other existing or newly adopted regulatory changes, could increase our cost of doing business or result in significant fines or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to regulations governing the sale of our merchandise in North America, we are also subject to regulations governing the sale of our merchandise in our European stores. In June 2007, the “REACH” European Union legislation became effective. The REACH legislation requires identification and disclosure of harmful chemicals in consumer products, including chemicals that might be in the merchandise that we sell. We are in the early stages of compliance with this regulation. Our failure to comply with this new European Union legislation could result in significant fines or penalties and increase our cost of doing business. 14 Table of Contents Recalls, product liability claims, and government, customer or consumer concerns about product safety could harm our reputation, increase costs or reduce sales. We are subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state and international regulatory authorities, and our products could be subject to involuntary recalls and other actions by these authorities. Concerns about product safety, including but not limited to concerns about the safety of products manufactured in China (where most of our products are manufactured), could lead us to recall selected products. Product safety concerns, recalls, or errors could result in the rejection of our products by consumers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, and increased costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Recalls and government, customer or consumer concerns about product safety could harm our reputation, increase costs or reduce sales. If we are unable to renew or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if any of our current leases are terminated prior to the expiration of their stated term and we cannot find suitable alternate locations, our growth and profitability could be adversely harmed. All of our stores are leased. Our ability to renew any expired lease or, if such lease cannot be renewed, our ability to lease a suitable alternate location, and our ability to enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms will depend on many factors which are not within our control, such as conditions in the local real estate market, competition for desirable properties, our relationships with current and prospective landlords, and negotiating acceptable lease terms that meet our financial targets. Our ability to operate stores on a profitable basis depends on various factors, including whether we have to take additional merchandise markdowns due to excessive inventory levels compared to sales trends, whether we can reduce the number of under-performing stores which have a higher level of fixed costs in comparison to net sales, and our ability to maintain a proportion of new stores to mature stores that does not harm existing sales. If we are unable to renew existing leases or lease suitable alternate locations, enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or increase our same store sales, our growth and our profitability could be adversely affected. Natural disasters or unusually adverse weather conditions or potential emergence of disease or pandemic could adversely affect our net sales or supply of inventory. Unusually adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, potential emergence of disease or pandemic or similar disruptions, especially during the peak Christmas selling season, but also at other times, could significantly reduce our net sales. In addition, these disruptions could also adversely affect our supply chain efficiency and make it more difficult for us to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise from suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, earnings, and cash flow. Information technology systems changes may disrupt our supply of merchandise. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to source and distribute merchandise efficiently. We continue to evaluate and leverage the best of both our North American and European information systems to support our product supply chain, including merchandise planning and allocation, inventory and price management. We continue to evaluate and implement modifications and upgrades to our information technology systems for POS (cash registers), real estate and international financial accounting. Modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems or making changes to the legacy systems and our ability to maintain effective internal controls. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these core systems, including accurately capturing data, and possibly encountering supply chain disruptions. There can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these new systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. Information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 15 Table of Contents If we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties and experience negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. We and our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. The collection of data and processing of transactions require us to receive and store a large amount of personally identifiable data. This type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various jurisdictions. Recently, data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislative proposals addressing data privacy and security. If some of the current proposals are adopted, we may be subject to more extensive requirements to protect the customer information that we process in connection with the purchases of our products. We may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data that we collect, manage and process, and may incur legal costs if our information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. Future investigations, lawsuits or adverse publicity relating to our methods of handling personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to the costs and negative market reaction relating to such developments. Changes in the anticipated seasonal business pattern could adversely affect our sales and profits and our quarterly results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors. Our business follows a seasonal pattern, peaking during the Christmas, Easter and back-to-school periods. Any decrease in sales or margins during these periods would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations also affect inventory levels, because we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including the time of store openings, the amount of revenue contributed by new stores, the timing and level of markdowns, the timing of store closings, expansions and relocations, competitive factors and general economic conditions. A decline in number of people who go to shopping malls, particularly in North America, could reduce the number of our customers and reduce our net sales. Substantially all of our North American stores are located in shopping malls. Our North American sales are derived, in part, from the high volume of traffic in those shopping malls. We benefit from the ability of the shopping mall’s “anchor” tenants, generally large department stores and other area attractions, to generate consumer traffic around our stores. We also benefit from the continuing popularity of shopping malls as shopping destinations for girls and young women. Sales volume and shopping mall traffic may be adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area, competition from non-shopping mall retailers, other shopping malls where we do not have stores and the closing of anchor tenants in a particular shopping mall. In addition, a decline in the popularity of shopping malls among our target customers that may curtail customer visits to shopping malls, could result in decreased sales that would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive. The specialty retail business is highly competitive. We compete with international, national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, the Internet, direct marketing to consumers and catalog businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. Many of our competitors are companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. Given the large number of companies in the retail industry, we cannot estimate the number of our competitors. Also, a significant shift in customer buying patterns to purchasing value-priced jewelry and accessories through channels other than traditional shopping malls, such as the Internet, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 16 Table of Contents If the Employee Free Choice Act is adopted, it would be easier for our employees to obtain union representation and our business could be adversely impacted. Currently, none of our employees in North America are represented by unions. However, our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could increase our costs and adversely impact our profitability. The Employee Free Choice Act of 2007: H.R. 800 (“EFCA”) was passed in the U.S. House of Representatives last year and the same legislation has been introduced again in 2009 as H.R. 1409 and S. 560. President Obama and leaders of Congress have made public statements in support of this bill. Accordingly, this bill or a variation of it could be enacted in the future and the enactment of this bill could have an adverse impact on our business, by making it easier for workers to obtain union representation and increasing the penalties employers may incur if they engage in labor practices in violation of the National Labor Relations Act. Higher health care costs and labor costs could adversely affect our business. The costs of health care continue to increase each year unabatedly. Recently, some states and localities have passed laws mandating the provision of certain levels of health benefits by some employers. Increased health care costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in the federal or state minimum wage or living wage requirements or changes in other workplace regulations could adversely affect our ability to meet our financial targets. Our profitability could be adversely affected by high petroleum prices. The profitability of our business depends to a certain degree upon the price of petroleum products, both as a component of the transportation costs for delivery of inventory from our vendors to our stores and as a raw material used in the production of our merchandise. Petroleum prices have recently risen to historic or near historic highs. We are unable to predict what the price of crude oil and the resulting petroleum products will be in the future. We may be unable to pass along to our customers the increased costs that would result from higher petroleum prices. Therefore, any such increase could have a material adverse impact on our business and profitability. The possibility of war and acts of terrorism could disrupt our information or distribution systems and increase our costs of doing business. A significant act of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on us by, among other things, disrupting our information or distributions systems, causing dramatic increases in fuel prices, thereby increasing the costs of doing business and affecting consumer spending, or impeding the flow of imports or domestic products to us. We depend on our key personnel. Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing trends and consumer preferences depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing and other functions. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. The loss of services of key members of our senior management team or of certain other key employees could also negatively affect our business. Litigation matters incidental to our business could be adversely determined against us. We are involved from time to time in litigation incidental to our business. Management believes that the outcome of current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Depending on the actual outcome of pending litigation, charges would be recorded in the future that may have an adverse effect on our operating results. 17 Table of Contents Goodwill, intangible assets, our investment in joint venture and long-lived assets comprise a significant portion of our total assets. We must test these assets for impairment at least annually; which could result in a material, non-cash write-down of goodwill, intangible and other assets and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Goodwill, intangible assets, our investment in joint venture and long-lived assets are subject to impairment assessments at least annually (or more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred) by applying a fair-value test. Our principal intangible assets are tradenames, franchise agreements, and leases that existed at date of acquisition with terms that were favorable to market at that date. During Fiscal 2008, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $297 million and $227 million in connection with goodwill and identifiable intangibles and other assets, respectively. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future. Additional impairment losses could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders equity. There are factors that can affect our provision for income taxes. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, the mix of income and losses from our foreign and domestic operations that may be taxed at different rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact earnings in future periods. In addition, the estimates we make regarding domestic and foreign taxes are based on tax positions that we believe are supportable, but could potentially be subject to successful challenge by the Internal Revenue Service or a foreign jurisdiction. If we are required to settle matters in excess of our established accruals for uncertain tax positions, it could result in a charge to our earnings. If our independent manufacturers or franchisees or joint venture partners do not use ethical business practices or comply with applicable laws and regulations, our brand name could be harmed due to negative publicity and our results of operations could be adversely affected. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our independent manufacturers, franchisees or joint venture partners, or their business practices. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee their compliance with our guidelines. Violation of labor or other laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, by our independent manufacturers, franchisees or joint venture partners, or the divergence from labor practices generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could diminish the value of our brand and reduce demand for our merchandise if, as a result of such violation, we were to attract negative publicity. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on third parties to distribute our merchandise and if these third parties do not adequately perform this function, our business would be disrupted. The efficient operation of our business depends on the ability of our third party carriers to ship merchandise directly to our distribution facilities and individual stores. These carriers typically employ personnel represented by labor unions and have experienced labor difficulties in the past. Due to our reliance on these parties for our shipments, interruptions in the ability of our vendors to ship our merchandise to our distribution facilities or the ability of carriers to fulfill the distribution of merchandise to our stores could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on single North American and single European distribution facilities. We handle merchandise distribution for all of our North American stores from a single facility in Hoffman Estates, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago, Illinois. We handle merchandise distribution for all of our operations outside of North America from a single facility in Birmingham, United Kingdom. Independent third party transportation companies deliver our merchandise to our stores and our clients. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution facility or the domestic transportation infrastructure due to natural disasters, accidents, inclement weather, system failures, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by employees of the transportation companies, or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores, which could result in lower sales, a loss 18 Table of Contents of loyalty to our brands and excess inventory and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our tradenames and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our tradenames and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. There can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our tradenames and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the tradenames, service marks and proprietary rights of others. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by other parties in these countries. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our tradenames and other proprietary rights, and we may be unable to successfully resolve those types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Our success depends on our ability to maintain the value of our brands. Our success depends on the value of our Claire’s and Icings brands. The Claire’s and Icings names are integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising, and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, enjoyable quality client experience. Our brands could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for one or both of these brands and our public image and reputation could be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could negatively impact sales. We may be unable to rely on liability indemnities given by foreign vendors which could adversely affect our financial results. The quality of our globally sourced products may vary from our expectations and sources of our supply may prove to be unreliable. In the event we seek indemnification from our suppliers for claims relating to the merchandise shipped to us, our ability to obtain indemnification may be hindered by the supplier’s lack of understanding of U.S. product liability laws, which may make it more difficult to successfully obtain such indemnification. Our ability to successfully pursue indemnification claims may also be adversely affected by the financial condition of the supplier. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We are indirectly owned and controlled by Apollo, a private equity firm, and its interests as an equity holder may conflict with the interest of our creditors. Substantially all of the stock of our parent corporation is beneficially owned by Apollo, a private equity firm. As a result, Apollo has the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our policies and operations, including the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payments of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the entering into of extraordinary transactions. The interests of Apollo may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our creditors. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our indebtedness as it matures, the interests of the Apollo as an equity holder might conflict with the interests of our creditors. In addition, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to our creditors. Furthermore, Apollo may in the future own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. Apollo also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Apollo continues to own a significant amount of our combined voting power, even if such amount is less than 50%, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Because our equity securities are not registered under the Securities Exchange Act and are not listed on any U.S. securities exchange, we are not subject to any of the corporate governance requirements of any U.S. securities exchange. 19 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the Notes and Credit Facility. We are significantly leveraged. As of January 31, 2009, our total debt, including the current portion, was approximately $2.6 billion, consisting of the Notes and borrowings under our Credit Facility. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the Notes and Credit Facility. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Facility, will be at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the Notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the Notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. Despite our high indebtedness level, we and our subsidiaries are still able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indentures governing the Notes and Credit Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. In addition, the indentures governing the Notes do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under those agreements. On May 14, 2008, we notified the holders of the Senior Toggle Notes of our intent to elect the “payment in kind” (PIK) interest option to satisfy the November 2008 interest payment obligation. The PIK election is now the default election for interest periods through June 1, 2011, unless the Company notifies the holders otherwise. The impact of this election increased the principal amount of our Senior Toggle Notes by $18.2 million on December 1, 2008, and will increase the principal amount of the Senior Toggle Notes semi-annually as long as the PIK election remains. 20 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our, our parent’s and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions, and, in the case of our revolving Credit Facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such actions by those lenders could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our Credit Facility. If the lenders under our Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our Credit Facility as well as our unsecured indebtedness, including the Notes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indentures governing the Notes may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Repayment of our debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own a significant portion of our assets and conduct a significant portion of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a 21 Table of Contents distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the indentures governing the Notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. To service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the United States, which could increase our income tax expense. The amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the United States may significantly impact our U.S. federal income tax expense. We record U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the United States and be taxable. In order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the United States, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. Consequently, our income tax expense has been, and will continue to be, impacted by our strategic initiative to make substantial capital investments outside the United States. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, the holders of our debt could exercise rights that could have a material effect on us. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, • the holders of such indebtedness may be able to cause all of our available cash flow to be used to pay such indebtedness and, in any event, could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; • the lenders under our Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 