Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and financial performance is subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition, we may, from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current views and assumptions and, as a result, are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. There are many factors that affect our business and financial performance, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and access to the capital markets. Other factors not presently known to us, or that we presently believe are not material, could also affect our business and financial performance. The risks discussed below could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from results predicted by forward-looking statements made by us related to conditions or events that we anticipate may occur in the future. All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risks described below. General economic factors may adversely affect our business, revenue and profitability General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. Consumer demand for the products that we sell could be adversely affected by higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, recession, higher levels of unemployment, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, weather, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors. Our sales generally represent discretionary spending by our customers and thus we may be more susceptible to factors negatively affecting consumer demand than other retailers selling less discretionary products. Lower consumer demand for our products would cause our revenues, and possibly our profitability, to decline, while a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our cost structure, and thus our operations and operating results, could be negatively impacted by higher interest rates; higher fuel and other energy costs; higher transportation costs; higher commodity costs; higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare; inflation in other costs; higher tax rates and other changes in the tax laws; changes in other laws and regulations; increased regulatory enforcement; increased litigation; and other economic factors. These factors affect not only our operations, but also the operations of suppliers from which we purchase goods and services, which may result in cost increases to us and a negative impact on our operations and operating results. Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as fires, hurricanes, tornados and earthquakes, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which our suppliers are located or terrorist or military activities disrupting transportation, communication or utility systems, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to or destruction or disruption of one or more of our properties (including our headquarters, distribution centers and stores), the lack of an adequate workforce in parts or all of our operations, supply chain disruptions, data and communications disruptions, the inability of our customers to shop in our stores and the inability to operate our e-commerce business. These factors could also cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and global financial markets and economy. Such occurrences could significantly impact our operating results and financial performance and result in increased volatility of the market price for our common shares. 10 We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from the implementation of marketing initiatives Our marketing initiatives designed to drive sales growth include marketing enhancements such as changes in the appearance, content and distribution of our advertising, new vendor programs and improved plan-o-gram processes. Our goal is to further enhance our customer shopping experience by modifying our marketing content to deliver a stronger value message, enhancing our industry-leading education and in-store demonstration programs and expanding the product offering and functionality of the Joann.com website. We may not be able to successfully execute our marketing initiatives to realize the intended benefits and growth prospects. Certain risks such as increased competition and economic factors may limit our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and expand our business. Our efforts to drive sales growth may not bring the intended result. Assumptions underlying estimates of expected revenue growth or overall cost savings may not be met or economic conditions may deteriorate. Customer acceptance of our marketing initiatives may not be as anticipated. Changes in newspaper subscription rates may result in reduced exposure to our circular advertisements A substantial portion of our promotional activities utilize circular advertisements in local newspapers. A continued decline in newspaper readership could reduce the frequency with which consumers receive our circular advertisements, thereby negatively affecting sales, operating results, and cash flow. Failure to timely respond to changes in consumer trends could negatively impact our business The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. The long lead times associated with our foreign-sourced products exacerbate this challenge. Failure to identify and effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns on a timely basis could negatively affect our relationship with our customers and the demand for our products. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Competition could negatively impact our results Competition is intense in the retail fabric and craft industry, with low entry barriers. We must remain competitive in the areas of quality, price, selection, customer service, convenience and reputation. Our primary competition is comprised of specialty fabric retailers and specialty craft retailers such as Michaels Stores, Inc., a national chain that operates craft and framing stores, Hobby Lobby, a national chain that operates craft stores that also carries fabrics, Hancock Fabrics, Inc., a national chain that operates fabric stores, and A.C. Moore Arts & Crafts, Inc., a regional chain that operates craft stores in the eastern United States. We also compete with mass merchants, including Wal-Mart, that dedicate a portion of their selling space to a limited selection of fabrics, craft supplies and seasonal and holiday merchandise. Some of our competitors have stores nationwide, several operate regional chains and numerous others are local merchants. Some of our competitors, particularly the mass merchants, are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. The performance of competitors as well as changes in their pricing and promotional policies, marketing activities, new store openings, merchandising and operational strategies could impact our sales and profitability. Our sales and profitability could also be impacted by store liquidations of our competitors. In addition, alternative methods of selling fabrics and crafts, such as over the Internet, could result in additional competitors in the future and increased price competition since our customers could more readily comparison shop. Moreover, we ultimately compete against alternative sources of entertainment and leisure activities for our customers that are unrelated to the fabric and craft industry. This competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability. Risks associated with our suppliers could adversely affect our operations and financial performance Our business success is highly dependent on our ability to find qualified suppliers who can deliver products in a timely and efficient manner, and in compliance with our vendor standards and all applicable laws and regulations. Many of our suppliers are small companies with limited resources and lack of financial flexibility. Some of our suppliers are susceptible to cash flow issues, production difficulties, quality control issues and problems in delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule and in compliance with regulatory requirements. We cannot assure that we would be able, if necessary, to return products to these suppliers and obtain refunds of our purchase price or obtain reimbursement or indemnification from them if their products prove defective, not in compliance with regulatory requirements or in violation of third-party intellectual property rights. In addition, many of these suppliers require extensive advance notice of our requirements in order to supply products in the quantities we desire. This long lead time requires us to place orders far in advance of the time when certain products will be offered for sale, exposing us to shifts in demand. In addition, some of 11 our suppliers may be unable to withstand a downturn in economic conditions. The inability of key suppliers to access financing, or their insolvency, could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise or services. If we are unable to procure products and services when needed, our sales and cash flows could be negatively impacted in future periods. Significant failures on the part of our key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The significant product safety requirements arising under the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 and state product safety laws may represent a compliance challenge to some of our suppliers, could negatively impact the ability of such suppliers to deliver compliant products to us and thus negatively impact our business operations and performance. Delivery of non-compliant products could result in liability to our company; while we obtain indemnifications from our suppliers with respect to compliance issues, some suppliers might not have the financial resources to stand behind their indemnifications and we could also suffer damage to our reputation. Our dependence on foreign suppliers subjects us to possible delays in receipt of merchandise and to the risks involved in foreign operations We are heavily dependent on foreign suppliers. In fiscal 2011, we purchased approximately 22 percent of our products directly from manufacturers located in foreign countries (in particular, in China and other Asian countries). In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign suppliers. Foreign sourcing subjects us to a number of risks, including long lead times; work stoppages; transportation delays and interruptions; product quality issues; employee rights issues; other social concerns; epidemics; political instability; economic disruptions; the imposition of tariffs, duties, quotas, import and export controls and other trade restrictions; changes in governmental policies; and other events. If any of these events occur, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, reductions in the value of the U.S. dollar or revaluation of the Chinese currency, or other foreign currencies, could ultimately increase the prices that we pay for our products. All of our products manufactured overseas and imported into the United States are subject to duties collected by the United States Customs Service. We may be subjected to additional duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import or the loss of import privileges, if we or our suppliers are found to be in violation of U.S. laws and regulations applicable to the importation of our products. Our business depends on shopping center traffic Our stores generally are located in strip shopping centers and “big box” shopping centers. Our sales are dependent in part on a high volume of shopping center traffic. Shopping center traffic may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns, rising fuel costs, gasoline shortages, the closing of anchor stores, shopping center occupancy rates and mix, new shopping centers and other retail developments, or changes in customer shopping preferences. A decline in the popularity of shopping center shopping among our target customers could have a material adverse effect on customer traffic and reduce our sales and net earnings. The seasonality of our sales may negatively impact our operating results Our business is seasonal, with a significant amount of sales and earnings occurring in the third, and in particular, the fourth fiscal quarters. Our inventory levels and related short-term financing needs also are seasonal, with the greatest requirements occurring during our third fiscal quarter as we increase our inventory in preparation for our peak selling season. Weak sales during the second half of the year will negatively impact our operating results and cash flow generation. Disruption to the transportation system or increases in transportation costs may negatively impact our operating results We rely upon various means of transportation, including shipments by air, sea, rail and truck, to deliver products to our distribution centers from vendors and from our distribution centers to our stores, as well as for direct shipments from vendors to stores. Labor shortages or capacity constraints in the transportation industry, disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure, fuel shortages, or transportation cost increases (such as increases in fuel costs or port fees) could adversely affect our business and operating results. The failure to attract and retain qualified employees could limit our growth and negatively impact our operations Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, administrative and store personnel. Our inability to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In particular, our strategy to grow our store base is dependent on our ability to recruit, develop and retain significant numbers of store managers and team members; the inability to do so 12 may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain additional qualified management in the future. Competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified management. Many of our employees are in entry level and part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, benefits costs, minimum wage legislation, changes in employment legislation and regulations, workers compensation costs and changing demographics. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of quality employees at a reasonable cost, our operating results could be impacted adversely. The United Steelworkers of America, Upholstery and Allied Industries Division currently represents employees who work in our Hudson, Ohio distribution center. Our current contract expires on May 5, 2011. We believe that our relations with our employees and the union are good, but if we are unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract renewal, or if a strike were to occur it may adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Failure to manage inventory effectively could negatively impact our operations Due to the nature of our business, we purchase much of our inventory well in advance of each selling season. If we misjudge consumer preferences or demands, we could have excess inventory that may need to be held for a long period of time, written down, sold at prices lower than expected, or discarded in order to clear excess inventory at the end of a selling season. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we may not be able to provide products to our customers to meet their demand. Either event could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, inventory shrink (inventory theft or loss) rates can significantly impact our business performance and financial results. Failure to manage inventory shrink rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of, or disruption in, or our inability to efficiently operate our distribution network could have a negative impact on our business We operate three distribution centers to support our business. If complications arise with any one facility or any facility is severely damaged or destroyed, our other distribution centers may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. This may adversely affect our ability to receive and deliver inventory on a timely basis. The majority of our inventory is shipped directly from suppliers to our distribution centers where the inventory is then processed, sorted, picked and shipped to our stores. We rely in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of our distribution network. Although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient and well-positioned to support our operating and strategic plans, we cannot assure that we have anticipated all issues or that events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to natural disasters or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, will not result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. Such delays could negatively impact our business. Disruptions to our information systems, or our failure to adequately support, maintain and upgrade these systems, could negatively impact our operations and financial results. We depend on a variety of information systems for the efficient functioning of our business. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively process transactions, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. Disruptions to our information systems, or our failure to adequately support, maintain and upgrade these systems could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. While we have implemented a disaster recovery plan intended to minimize the effect of any disruption to our information systems, the failure of our information systems to perform as designed could disrupt our business and harm sales and profitability. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed, which could have a negative impact on our business. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of power outages, computer and telecommunication failures, other system failures, viruses, security breaches, natural disasters, terrorist and criminal activities, employee usage errors or other causes. If our computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. 13 We also rely heavily on our information technology staff. If we cannot meet our staffing needs in this area, we may not be able to complete our technology and business initiatives while continuing to provide maintenance on existing systems. Our inability to complete these initiatives and to maintain the existing systems adequately could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. Financing needs could restrict our operations Our business is dependent on the availability of credit to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements. We currently have in place a secured credit facility, which expires in September 2013 (but which would be terminated and replaced upon closing of the proposed merger with an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P.). We believe that this financing is adequate to meet our foreseeable needs. If our financing needs increase, we might not be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event that the proposed merger with an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. is completed, we will become highly leveraged with associated financing risks. Failure to comply with the restrictions placed on us by our lenders could have a material adverse effect on our business Our secured credit facility agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants, which limit our ability to borrow money, make investments, or make payments on our capital stock, incur liens and take other actions. We currently are in compliance with all of these covenants and do not foresee any issues in continuing to comply with these covenants in the future. However, our ability to remain in compliance with these covenants and tests may be affected by unanticipated events or events beyond our control. If we fail to meet these tests or breach any of the covenants, the lenders under the secured credit facility could declare all amounts outstanding under the facility, including accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. In the event that the proposed merger with an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. is completed, we will have other credit facilities with different (and perhaps more stringent) restrictive and financial covenants. Failure to adequately maintain the security of our electronic and other confidential information could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. As part of our normal business activities, we collect and store certain confidential information, including personal information with respect to customers and employees. We may share some of this information with vendors who assist us with certain aspects of our business. Moreover, the success of our e-commerce operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential and personal data over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. Any failure on the part of us or our vendors to maintain the security of our confidential data and our employees’ and customers’ personal information, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and thus have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources to enhance our information security systems and could result in a disruption to our operations. We currently are certified as being in compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCI DSS”), but must be recertified on a regular basis with the next recertification scheduled in September 2011 for our stores and Joann.com. A company processing, storing, or transmitting payment card data must be PCI DSS compliant or risk losing its ability to process credit card payments and being audited and/or fined. Failure to maintain our PCI certification could result in our inability to accept credit card payments or subject us to penalties and thus could have a material negative effect on our operations. Failure to comply with various regulations, or increased litigation, may result in damage to our business Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC and NYSE. Additional legal and regulatory requirements such as the Sarbanes-Oxley and Dodd-Frank Acts have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment. Also, various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. We are impacted, in particular, by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, which includes limitations on lead and phthalates and imposes product testing and certification requirements with respect to many of the products we sell, and state product safety laws and regulations. Additionally, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including liability claims, employment-related claims, contractual disputes and allegations that we have infringed third-party intellectual property rights. 14 Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Also, failure to comply with various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of financial statements. We may not be able to successfully implement our store growth strategy Our store growth strategy includes opening new stores in existing and new markets, replacing some of our small-format stores with large-format stores and remodeling many of our stores. We face significant competition from other retailers for suitable locations. We also may face difficulties in negotiating leases on acceptable terms. New store openings involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing, supplying and staffing a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. Our future sales at new and remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could adversely impact our return on investment. Our inability to execute our store growth strategy in a manner that generates appropriate returns on investment could have an adverse impact on our future growth and profitability. We may not be able to maintain or negotiate favorable lease terms We lease substantially all of our store locations. The majority of our store leases contain provisions for base rent and a small number of store leases contain provisions for base rent plus percentage rent based on sales in excess of an agreed upon minimum annual sales level. If we are unable to renew, renegotiate or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, our growth and profitability could be harmed. Changes in accounting standards A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and interpretations of existing accounting rules and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules may adversely affect our reported financial results. Effective tax rate Our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than our tax rates have been in the past due to numerous factors including the sources of our income, any agreements we may have with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, changes in tax laws and the tax filing positions we take in various jurisdictions. We base our estimate of an effective tax rate at any given point in time upon a calculated mix of the tax rates applicable to our company and to estimates of the amount of business likely to be done in any given jurisdiction. The loss of one or more agreements with taxing jurisdictions, a change in the mix of our business, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws in any of the taxing jurisdictions, or adverse outcomes from tax audits could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Inadequacy of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our company We maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks of property loss, as well directors and officers liability insurance coverage. While we believe these arrangements are an effective way to insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with those risks or other events could exceed the coverage provided by such arrangements. Significant uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our company. Cash and cash equivalents held at financial institutions exceed federally insured limits We have a significant amount of cash and cash equivalents (money market funds) at financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. With the current financial environment and the instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in financial results; the competitive landscape; general economic and market conditions; estimates, projections and speculation by the investment community and press; and rating agency upgrades and downgrades. Given our pending agreement to be acquired by Leonard Green & Partners, L.P., our stock price could be negatively affected by delays in completing the acquisition, or modification or termination of the acquisition agreement. As a result, our stock price is subject to significant volatility. 15 Events harming our company’s reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial results and stock price We are dependent on our reputation. Events that can damage our reputation include, but are not limited to, legal violations, actual or perceived ethical problems, product safety issues, data security breaches, actual or perceived poor employee relations, actual or perceived poor customer service, store appearance or operational issues, or events outside of our control which generate negative publicity with respect to our company. Any event that has the potential to negatively impact our reputation with customers, employees, suppliers, communities, governmental officials and others could have a materially adverse effect on our business prospects, financial results and stock price. The proposed merger with an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. is subject to certain closing conditions that could result in the merger not being completed, which may in turn result in a decline in the price of our common stock. The proposed merger with an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. is subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of shareholder approval, but is not subject to any condition with regard to the financing of the transaction. Many of the conditions to closing are outside of our control. If any condition to the closing of the merger is not satisfied or, if permissible, waived, the merger will not be completed. Furthermore, certain lawsuits have been filed challenging the merger. These lawsuits could result in the merger not being completed or in a delay in the completion of the merger. If we do not complete the merger, the price of our common stock may decline significantly from the current market price which reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed with shareholders receiving $61 for each common share held. We also will be obligated to pay certain professional fees and related expenses in connection with the merger, whether or not the merger is completed. In addition, we have expended, and will continue to expend, significant management resources in an effort to complete the merger. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefits. Further, upon termination of the merger agreement under certain specified circumstances, we will be required to pay a termination fee of $44.9 million to parties to the agreement. Whether or not the proposed merger with an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. is completed, the merger could cause disruptions in our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Whether or not the merger with an affiliate of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. is completed, there are various uncertainties and risks arising in connection with the announcement of the merger, including: • Management’s attention may be diverted to completion of the merger and away from execution of existing business plans, which could disrupt operations and have a material adverse effect on our operating results; and • Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of employees or business partners. Other Factors The foregoing list of risk factors is not all inclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business. We do not undertake to revise or update these risks to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 