ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may also be adversely affected by risks not currently known to management, or that management does not currently consider to be material. Competitive factors in the retail industry could limit the Company’s growth opportunities and reduce profitability. The Company is in a highly competitive sector of the discount retail merchandise sector with numerous competitors, some of whom may have greater resources than the Company. The Company competes for customers, merchandise, real estate locations and employees. This competitive environment subjects the Company to various risks, including the ability to continue its store and sales growth and provide attractive merchandise to its customers at competitive prices that allow the Company to maintain its profitability. See Item 1 — “Competition” for further discussion of the Company’s competitive position. Pricing pressures, including inflation and energy prices, could affect the Company’s profitability. Increases in the cost of goods and services, including changes resulting from inflationary pressures, may reduce the Company’s profitability and/or sales. The Company’s ability to pass on incremental pricing changes may be limited due to operational and/or competitive factors. Increases in prices, including changes in energy prices, may impact the Company’s customer base by limiting the amount of discretionary spending of its customers and may impact the Company through increased costs of goods and/or increased operating expenses. Changes in consumer demand and product mix and changes in overall economic conditions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. A general slowdown in the U.S. economy may adversely affect the spending of the Company’s customers, which may result in lower net sales than expected on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, changes in the types of products made available for sale and the selection of the products by customers affect sales, product mix and margins. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, and tax rates, could also adversely affect the Company’s business by reducing spending or causing customers to shift their spending to other products. The impact of acts of war or terrorism and transportation and distribution delays or interruptions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Significant acts of terrorism, existing U.S. military efforts, as well as the involvement of the U.S. in other military engagements, could have an adverse impact on the Company by, among other things, disrupting its distribution or information systems, causing dramatic increases in fuel prices which increase the cost of doing business, or impeding the flow of imports or domestic products to the Company. Delays or interruptions in the transportation and distribution of products could have an adverse impact on the Company. Unusual weather, natural disasters or pandemic outbreaks could adversely affect the Company’s net sales and operations. Extreme changes in weather patterns or other natural disasters as well as pandemic outbreaks influence customer trends and purchases and may negatively impact net sales, properties and/or operations of the Company. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of the Company’s properties; the temporary closure of one or more stores or distribution centers; the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market; the temporary or long-term disruption in the transport of goods from overseas; delay in the delivery of goods to the Company’s distribution centers or stores; or the temporary reduction in the availability of products in the Company’s stores. These factors could adversely affect the Company’s operations. 6 Merchandise supply and pricing and the interruption of and dependence on imports could negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company has generally been able to obtain sufficient quantities of attractive merchandise at prices that allow the Company to profitably sell such merchandise. Any disruption in that supply and/or the pricing of such merchandise could negatively impact the Company’s operations and results of operations. A significant amount of the goods sold by the Company are imported, and changes to the flow of these goods for any reason could have an adverse impact on the Company. Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, labor problems experienced by the Company’s suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond the Company’s control. These and other factors affecting the Company’s suppliers and the Company’s access to products could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. The Company’s results of operations are dependent upon the success of its merchandising and marketing programs. The Company undertakes new programs and refines existing programs to increase net sales and its customer base. The Company may be adversely impacted if merchandise and marketing programs fail to attract customers into its stores or if the merchandising programs implemented by the Company are not attractive to its customers. Operational difficulties could disrupt the Company’s business. The Company’s stores are decentralized and are managed through a network of geographically dispersed management personnel. Inability of the Company to effectively and efficiently operate its stores, including the ability to control losses resulting from inventory shrinkage, may negatively impact the Company’s sales and/or profitability. In addition, the Company relies upon its distribution and logistics network to provide goods to stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. Any disruption, unanticipated expense or operational failure related to this process could negatively impact store operations. Finally, the Company’s operations are facilitated by the use of various technologies, the disruption or failure of which could negatively impact the Company’s operations. Delays associated with the building and opening of distribution facilities and stores, and the costs of operating distribution facilities and stores could adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company maintains a network of distribution facilities in its geographic territory and constructs new facilities to support its growth. In addition, the Company expands its network of stores through opening new stores and remodeling existing stores each year. Delays in opening distribution facilities or stores could adversely affect the Company’s future operations by slowing growth, which may in turn reduce revenue growth. Adverse changes in the cost to operate distribution facilities and stores, such as changes in labor, utility and other operating costs, could have an adverse impact on the Company. Adverse changes in inventory shrinkage at the store-level or in distribution facilities could have a negative impact on the Company. Changes in state or federal legislation or regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on wage levels and entitlement programs and changes in currency exchange rates, trade restrictions, tariffs, quotas and freight rates could increase the Company’s cost of doing business. Unanticipated changes in federal or state wage requirements or other changes in workplace regulation could adversely impact the Company’s ability to achieve its financial targets. Because a substantial amount of the Company’s imported merchandise comes from China, a change in the Chinese currency policy could negatively impact the Company’s merchandise costs. Changes in trade restrictions, new tariffs and quotas, and higher shipping costs for goods could also adversely impact the ability of the Company to achieve anticipated operating results. The Company’s growth is dependent upon the success of its new store opening program. The Company’s growth is dependent on both increases in sales in existing stores and the ability to open new stores. Unavailability of store locations that the Company deems attractive, delays in the acquisition or opening of new stores, difficulties in staffing and operating new store locations and lack of customer acceptance of stores in expanded market areas all may negatively impact the Company’s new store growth, the costs associated with new stores and/or the profitability of new stores. 7 Higher costs and/or failure to achieve targeted results associated with the implementation of new programs, systems and technology could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is undertaking a variety of operating initiatives and infrastructure initiatives related to merchandising and supply chain systems, store technology, cooler installations and related food programs, Urban Initiative programs, and real estate expansion goals. The failure to properly execute any of these initiatives could have an adverse impact on the future operating results of the Company. Adverse impacts associated with legal proceedings and claims could negatively affect the Company’s business. The Company is a party to a variety of legal proceedings and claims, including those described in Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” and elsewhere in this Report. Operating results for the Company could be adversely impacted if such legal proceedings and claims result in the Company’s obligation to make either material damage or settlement payments which are not insured or which have not been reserved against, or changes to the operation of the business. The Company’s ability to attract and retain employees, and changes in health care and other insurance costs could affect the Company’s business. The growth of the Company could be adversely impacted by its inability to attract and retain employees at the store operations level, in distribution facilities, and at the corporate level, including the Company’s senior management team. Adverse changes in health care costs could also adversely impact the Company’s ability to achieve its operational and financial goals and to offer attractive benefit programs to its employees. Changes in interpretations or applications of accounting principles and/or developments in legal or regulatory guidance, could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. Unanticipated changes in the interpretation or application of accounting principles to the Company’s financial statements could result in material charges and/or restatements of the Company’s financial statements, which may further result in litigation and/or regulatory actions which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes and developments in legal or regulatory guidance, particularly with regard to stock option matters, may negatively impact the Company’s position in related litigation matters. The Company’s business is slightly seasonal and adverse events during the holiday season could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s business is slightly seasonal, with the highest percentage of sales occurring during the second fiscal quarter (December, January, February). The Company purchases significant amounts of seasonal inventory in anticipation of the holiday season. Adverse events resulting in lower than planned sales during the holiday season could lead to unanticipated markdowns, negatively impacting the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s failure to comply with its debt covenants could adversely affect the Company’s capital resources, financial condition and liquidity. The Company’s debt agreements contain certain restrictive covenants, which include a consolidated debt to consolidated capitalization ratio, a fixed charges coverage ratio, and a priority debt ratio. If the Company fails to comply with such covenants as a result of one or more of the factors listed in this section, the Company may be forced to settle its outstanding debt obligations, negatively impacting cash flows. The Company’s ability to obtain future financing may also be negatively impacted. Litigation relating to stock option matters is pending, the scope and outcome of which could adversely affect the price of the Company’s securities. As described elsewhere in this Report, the Company is a nominal defendant in certain shareholder derivative actions alleging that certain of the Company’s stock option grants were “backdated” along with related claims. Results of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, and unfavorable results could adversely affect the price of the Company’s securities. In addition, this litigation may become disruptive to the Company’s normal business operations. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” and Notes 8 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report for more information. 8 The determinations of the Special Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors regarding the Company’s stock option granting practices could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s Board of Directors created a Special Committee to conduct a comprehensive review of grants of stock options in response to certain shareholder derivative actions. Based on the findings of the Special Committee, the Company determined that incorrect measurement dates were used for accounting purposes with respect to certain stock option grants and the Company recorded a charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 to record additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense and related amounts. As a result of these events, the Company has become subject to the following risks which could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations: (i) many members of the Company’s senior management team and Board of Directors have been and could be required to devote in the future a significant amount of time and resources on matters relating to remedial efforts and related litigation; (ii) the Company is subject to an informal inquiry by the SEC which could require management time and attention and cause the Company to incur additional accounting and legal expenses and which could require the Company to pay a fine or other penalties; (iii) the Company is subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory proceedings or actions; and (iv) the Company may incur substantial expenses related to the foregoing. In addition, while the Company believes it has made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for its stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which the Company has accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of the findings of the Special Committee. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report for more information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 