ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business faces the risks set forth below, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. All forward-looking statements made by the Company or on the Company’s behalf are qualified by the risks described below. Risks Relating To Operations Changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions that result in a decrease in consumer confidence or market demand for the Company’s services and products in Hawaii, the U.S. Mainland, Guam, Asia or South Pacific may adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity, or cash flows. A continuation or further weakening of the U.S., Guam, Asian, South Pacific or global economies may adversely impact the level of freight volumes and freight rates. Within the U.S., a weakening of economic drivers in Hawaii, which include tourism, military spending, construction starts, personal income growth, and employment, or the further weakening of consumer confidence, market demand or the economy in the U.S. Mainland, may further reduce the demand for goods to and from Hawaii and Asia, travel to Hawaii and domestic transportation of goods, adversely affecting inland and ocean transportation volumes or rates. We are unable to determine the full impact of sequestration on our carriage of military cargo, but we believe it continues to negatively impact us, and we could continue to be impacted by future cuts to federal programs, including Defense Department programs as a result of federal sequestration. In addition, overcapacity in the global or transpacific ocean transportation markets or a change in the cost of goods or currency exchange rates may adversely affect freight volumes and rates in the Company’s China service. The Company may face new or increased competition. The Company may face new competition by established or start-up shipping operators that enter the Company’s markets. The entry of a new competitor or the addition of ships or capacity by existing competition on any of the Company’s routes could result in a significant increase in available shipping capacity that could have an adverse effect on volumes and rates. One current competitor, Pasha, announced that it intends to place a second ship into its Hawaii service in the second half of 2014. We expect there to be a period of competitive disruption impacting rates and volumes following this market entry that would impact all carriers in the Hawaii trade, including Matson. The loss of or damage to key vendor, agent and customer relationships may adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s businesses are dependent on their relationships with key vendors, agents and customers, and derive a significant portion of their revenues from the Company’s largest customers. The Company’s business relies on its relationships with the military, freight forwarders, large retailers and consumer goods and automobile manufacturers, as well as other larger customers. Relationships with railroads and shipping companies and agents are important in the Company’s intermodal business. For 2013, the Company’s ocean transportation business’ ten largest customers accounted for approximately 24 percent of the business’ revenue. For 2013, the Company’s logistics business’ ten largest customers accounted for approximately 23 percent of the business’ revenue. The loss of or damage to any of these key relationships may adversely affect the Company’s business and revenue. 8 Table of Contents An increase in fuel prices, or changes in the Company’s ability to collect fuel surcharges, may adversely affect the Company’s profits. Fuel is a significant operating expense for the Company’s ocean transportation business. The price and supply of fuel are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond the Company’s control. Increases in the price of fuel may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations based on market and competitive conditions. Increases in fuel costs also can lead to other expense increases, for example, increased costs of energy and purchased transportation services. In the Company’s ocean transportation and logistics services segments, the Company is able to utilize fuel surcharges to partially recover increases in fuel expense, although increases in the fuel surcharge may adversely affect the Company’s competitive position and may not correspond exactly with the timing of increases in fuel expense. Changes in the Company’s ability to collect fuel surcharges also may adversely affect its results of operations. Work stoppages or other labor disruptions by the unionized employees of the Company or other companies in related industries may adversely affect the Company’s operations. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had 1,036 regular full-time employees, of which 272 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. Of these covered employees, 249 are subject to collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2014, and include ILWU contracts on the U.S. Pacific Coast and in Hawaii. In addition, the Company relies on the services of third-parties who employ persons covered by collective bargaining agreements, including SSAT. The Company could be adversely affected by actions taken by employees of the Company or other companies in related industries against efforts by management to control labor costs, restrain wage or benefits increases or modify work practices. Strikes and disruptions may occur as a result of the failure of the Company or other companies in its industry to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with such unions successfully. The Company is susceptible to weather and natural disasters. The Company’s operations are vulnerable to disruption as a result of weather and natural disasters such as bad weather at sea, hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods and earthquakes. Such events will interfere with the Company’s ability to provide on-time scheduled service, resulting in increased expenses and potential loss of business associated with such events. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters can result in interference with the Company’s terminal operations, and may cause serious damage to its vessels, loss or damage to containers, cargo and other equipment, and loss of life or physical injury to its employees, all of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company maintains casualty and liability insurance policies. These policies are generally subject to large retentions and deductibles. Some types of losses, such as losses resulting from a port blockage, generally are not insured. In some cases the Company retains the entire risk of loss because it is not economically prudent to purchase insurance coverage or because of the perceived remoteness of the risk. Other risks are uninsured because insurance coverage may not be commercially available. Finally, the Company retains all risk of loss that exceeds the limits of its insurance. The Company’s significant operating agreements and leases could be replaced on less favorable terms or may not be replaced. The significant operating agreements and leases of the Company in its various businesses expire at various points in the future and may not be replaced or could be replaced on less favorable terms, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s future financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Interruption or failure of the Company’s information technology and communications systems could impair the Company’s ability to operate and adversely affect its business. The Company is highly dependent on information technology systems. These dependencies include accounting, billing, disbursement, cargo booking and tracking, vessel scheduling and stowage, equipment tracking, customer service, banking, payroll and employee communication systems. All information technology and communication 9 Table of Contents systems are subject to reliability issues, integration and compatibility concerns, and security-threatening intrusions. The Company may experience failures caused by the occurrence of a natural disaster, computer hacking or viruses or other unanticipated problems at the Company’s facilities, aboard its vessels or at third-party locations. Any failure of the Company’s or third-party systems could result in interruptions in its service or production, reductions in its revenue and profits, damage to its reputation or liability for the release of confidential information. Loss of the Company’s key personnel could adversely affect its business. The Company’s future success will depend, in significant part, upon the continued services of its key personnel, including its senior management and skilled employees. The loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s future operating results because of such employees’ experience and knowledge of the Company’s business and customer relationships. If key employees depart, the Company may have to incur significant costs to replace them, and the Company’s ability to execute its business model could be impaired if it cannot replace them in a timely manner. The Company does not expect to maintain key person insurance on any of its key personnel. The Company is involved in a joint venture and is subject to risks associated with joint venture relationships. The Company is involved in the SSAT joint venture, and may initiate future joint venture projects. A joint venture involves certain risks such as: · The Company may not have voting control over the joint venture; · The Company may not be able to maintain good relationships with its joint venture partner; · The joint venture partner at any time may have economic or business interests that are inconsistent with the Company’s; · The joint venture partner may fail to fund its share of capital for operations or to fulfill its other commitments, including providing accurate and timely accounting and financial information to the Company; · The joint venture may experience operating difficulties and financial losses, which may lead to asset write-downs or impairment charges that could negatively impact the operating results of the joint venture and the Company; · The joint venture or venture partner could lose key personnel; and · The joint venture partner could become bankrupt requiring the Company to assume all risks and capital requirements related to the joint venture project, and the related bankruptcy proceedings could have an adverse impact on the operation of the partnership or joint venture. In addition, the Company relies on the SSAT joint venture for its stevedoring services on the West Coast of the U.S. market. The Company is subject to risks associated with conducting business in a foreign shipping market. Matson’s China, Micronesia and South Pacific services are subject to risks associated with conducting business in a foreign shipping market, which include: · Challenges associated with operating in foreign countries and doing business and developing relationships with foreign companies; · Challenges in working with and maintaining good relationships with joint venture partners in our foreign operations; · Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory restrictions, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and foreign laws that prohibit corrupt payments to government officials; · Global vessel overcapacity that may lead to decreases in volumes and shipping rates; · Competition with established and new carriers; 10 Table of Contents · Currency exchange rate fluctuations; · Political and economic instability; · Protectionist measures that may affect the Company’s operation of its wholly-owned foreign enterprise; and · Challenges caused by cultural differences. Any of these risks has the potential to adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s logistics segment is dependent upon third parties for equipment, capacity and services essential to operate the Company’s logistics business, and if the Company fails to secure sufficient third party services, its business could be adversely affected. The Company’s logistics segment is dependent upon rail, truck and ocean transportation services provided by independent third parties. If the Company cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment, capacity or services from these third parties at reasonable rates to meet its customers’ needs and schedules, customers may seek to have their transportation and logistics needs met by other third parties on a temporary or permanent basis. As a result, the Company’s business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to risks related to a marine accident or spill event. The Company’s vessel and terminal operations could be faced with a maritime accident, oil or other spill, or other environmental mishap. Such event may lead to personal injury, loss of life, damage of property, pollution and suspension of operations. As a result, such event could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Acquisitions may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s growth strategy includes expansion through acquisitions. Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired assets or companies, and may result in the diversion of the Company’s capital and its management attention from other business issues and opportunities. The Company may not be able to integrate companies that it acquires successfully, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. The Company may also encounter challenges in achieving appropriate internal control over financial reporting in connection with the integration of an acquired company. The Company may pay a premium for an acquisition, resulting in goodwill that may later be determined to be impaired, adversely affecting the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Shipbuilding Agreements with Aker Philadelphia Shipyard, Inc. are subject to risks. On November 6, 2013, MatNav and APSI entered into definitive agreements pursuant to which APSI will construct two new 3,600-TEU Aloha-class dual-fuel capable containerships, with expected delivery dates during the third and fourth quarters of 2018. Failure of either party to the shipbuilding agreement to fulfill its obligations under the agreement could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Heightened security measures, war, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism and other acts of violence may adversely impact the Company’s operations and profitability. War, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence may cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease, or may affect the ability or willingness of tourists to travel to Hawaii, thereby adversely affecting Hawaii’s economy and the Company. Additionally, future terrorist attacks could increase volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets. Acts of war or terrorism may be directed at the Company’s shipping operations, or may cause the U.S. government to take control of Matson’s vessels for military operation. Heightened security measures potentially slow the movement and increase the cost of freight through U.S. or foreign ports, across borders or on U.S. or foreign railroads or highways and could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The effects of the Company’s Separation from Alexander & Baldwin, Inc. may expose us or our shareholders to significant liabilities, or prevent us from undertaking certain desirable transactions during the two-year period following the Separation. The Company and A&B entered into a number of agreements in connection with the Separation that set forth certain rights and obligations of the parties’ post-Separation, including a Separation and Distribution Agreement, a Tax Sharing Agreement, an Employee Matters Agreement and a Transition Services Agreement. The Company possesses certain rights under those agreements, including indemnification rights from certain liabilities allocated to A&B. The failure of A&B to perform its obligations under the Separation-related agreements could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the Company received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), as well as an opinion from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP (which opinion relies on the effectiveness of the IRS ruling), substantially to the effect that, among other things, the Separation and the distribution of shares, taken together, will qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. If there is a determination that the Separation and the distribution is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, A&B, and their respective investors could become subject to significant tax and other liabilities and costs. In addition, in order to preserve the tax free nature of the Separation, the parties have agreed not to issue equity securities representing 50 percent or more of their equity interests, acquire businesses or assets by issuing securities representing 50 percent or more of their equity interests or become parties to mergers or asset transfers that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the Separation, in each case, during the two-year period following the Separation. Risks Relating to Financial Matters A deterioration of the Company’s credit profile or disruptions of the credit markets could restrict its ability to access the debt capital markets or increase the cost of debt. Deterioration in the Company’s credit profile may have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to access the private or public debt markets and also may increase its borrowing costs. If the Company’s credit profile deteriorates significantly, its access to the debt capital markets or its ability to renew its committed lines of credit may become restricted, or the Company may not be able to refinance debt at the same levels or on the same terms. Because the Company relies on its ability to draw on its revolving credit facilities to support its operations, when required, any volatility in the credit and financial markets that prevents the Company from accessing funds (for example, a lender that does not fulfill its lending obligation) could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, the Company’s credit agreements generally include an increase in borrowing rates if the Company’s credit profile deteriorates. Furthermore, the Company incurs interest under its revolving credit facilities based on floating rates. Floating rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect the Company’s cash flow and results of operations. Failure to comply with certain restrictive financial covenants contained in the Company’s credit facilities could preclude the payment of dividends, impose restrictions on the Company’s business segments, capital resources or other activities or otherwise adversely affect the Company. The Company’s credit facilities contain certain restrictive financial covenants, the most restrictive of which include the maintenance of minimum shareholders’ equity levels, a maximum ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and the maintenance of no more than a maximum amount of priority debt as a percentage of consolidated tangible assets. If the Company does not maintain the required covenants, and that breach of covenants is not cured timely or waived by the lenders, resulting in default, the Company’s access to credit may be limited or terminated, dividends may be suspended, and the lenders could declare any outstanding amounts due and payable. The Company’s continued ability to borrow under its credit facilities is subject to compliance with these financial and other non-financial covenants. The Company’s effective income tax rate may vary. Various internal and external factors may have favorable or unfavorable, material or immaterial effects on the Company’s effective income tax rate and, therefore, the Company’s net income and earnings per share. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in tax rates; changes in tax laws, regulations, and rulings; changes in 12 Table of Contents interpretations of existing tax laws, regulations and rulings; changes in the Company’s evaluation of collectability of deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions; changes in accounting principles; changes in current pre-tax income as well as changes in forecasted pre-tax income; changes in the level of CCF deductions, non-deductible expenses, and expenses eligible for tax credits; changes in the mix of earnings among countries with varying tax rates; acquisitions and changes in the Company’s corporate structure. These factors may result in periodic revisions to our effective income tax rate, which could affect the Company’s cash flow and results of operations. Changes in the value of pension assets, or a change in pension law or key assumptions, may adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. The amount of the Company’s employee pension and post-retirement benefit costs and obligations are calculated on assumptions used in the relevant actuarial calculations. Adverse changes in any of these assumptions due to economic or other factors, changes in discount rates, higher health care costs, or lower actual or expected returns on plan assets, may adversely affect the Company’s operating results, cash flows, and financial condition. In addition, a change in federal law, including changes to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act or Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation premiums, may adversely affect the Company’s single-employer and multiemployer pension plans and plan funding. These factors, as well as a decline in the fair value of pension plan assets, may put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits and may increase future pension expense and required funding contributions. There can be no assurance that it will be successful in limiting future cost and expense increases, and continued upward pressure in costs and expenses could further reduce the profitability of the Company’s businesses. The Company may have exposure under its multiemployer pension and post-retirement plans in which it participates that extends beyond its funding obligation with respect to the Company’s employees. The Company contributes to various multiemployer pension plans. In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by the Company from any plan that is underfunded, the Company would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the limited information available from plan administrators, which the Company cannot independently validate, the Company believes that its portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination may be material to its financial position and results of operations. If any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan that is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then the Company, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for its proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. In addition, if a multiemployer plan fails to satisfy the minimum funding requirements, the IRS will impose certain penalties and taxes. Risks Relating to Legal and Legislative Matters The impact of the molasses release in September 2013 may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The Company could be faced with regulatory compliance obligations, third party or governmental agency claims, disputes, legal or other proceedings, fines, penalties, natural resource damages, inquiries or investigations or other regulatory actions, including debarment, in connection with the release of molasses into Honolulu Harbor in September 2013. The Company cannot currently estimate the potential impact of any such events, but such events could involve or result in significant expenditures or losses by the Company, or result in significant changes to Matson’s tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with its customers, all of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See “Legal Proceedings” below. The Company is subject to, and may in the future be subject to, disputes, legal or other proceedings, or government inquiries or investigations, that could have an adverse effect on the Company. The nature of the Company’s business exposes it to the potential for disputes, legal or other proceedings, or government inquiries or investigations, relating to antitrust matters, labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, environmental and other matters, as discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this section or in other Company filings with the SEC. For example, Matson is a common carrier, whose tariffs, rates, rules and 13 Table of Contents practices in dealing with its customers are governed by extensive and complex foreign, federal, state and local regulations, which may be the subject of disputes or administrative or judicial proceedings. If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve or result in significant expenditures or losses by the Company, or result in significant changes to Matson’s tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with its customers, all of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s future operating results, including profitability, cash flows, and financial condition. For a description of significant legal proceedings involving the Company, see “Legal Proceedings” below. Repeal, substantial amendment, or waiver of the Jones Act or its application could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. If the Jones Act was to be repealed, substantially amended, or waived and, as a consequence, competitors were to enter the Hawaii market with lower operating costs by utilizing their ability to acquire and operate foreign-flag and foreign-built vessels, the Company’s business would be adversely affected. In addition, the Company’s advantage as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded by periodic efforts and attempts by foreign interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the shipping of cargo between covered U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-built vessels. Noncompliance with, or changes to, federal, state or local law or regulations, including passage of climate change legislation or regulation, may adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including cabotage laws, government rate regulations, and environmental regulations including those relating to air quality initiatives at port locations, including, but not limited to, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation & Liability Act of 1980, the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899, the Clean Water Act, the Invasive Species Act and the Clean Air Act. Continued compliance with these laws and regulations may result in additional costs and changes in operating procedures that may adversely affect the Company’s business. Noncompliance with, or changes to, the laws and regulations governing the Company’s business could impose significant additional costs on the Company and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in environmental laws impacting the business, including passage of climate change legislation or other regulatory initiatives that restrict emissions of greenhouse gasses, may require costly vessel modifications, the use of higher-priced fuel and changes in operating practices that may not be recoverable through increased payments from customers. Further changes to these laws and regulations could adversely affect the Company. Climate change legislation, such as limiting and reducing greenhouse gas emissions through a “cap and trade” system of allowances and credits, if enacted, may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Risks Related to Capital Structure The Company’s business could be adversely affected if the Company were determined not to be a U.S. citizen under the Jones Act. Certain provisions of the Company’s articles of incorporation protect the Company’s ability to maintain its status as a U.S. citizen under the Jones Act. Although the Company believes it currently is a U.S. citizen under the Jones Act, if non-U.S. citizens were able to defeat such articles of incorporation restrictions and own in the aggregate more than 25 percent of the Company’s common stock, the Company would no longer be considered a U.S. citizen under the Jones Act. Such an event could result in the Company’s ineligibility to engage in coastwise trade and the imposition of substantial penalties against it, including seizure or forfeiture of its vessels, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 