Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us are described below. See “Forward Looking Statements” under Item 7 of this report for a discussion of other important factors that can affect our business. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets — Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and leases and investments, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice-versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and lease and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan and lease volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates as can the businesses of our clients. Changes in levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability. Market interest rates are beyond our control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, may negatively affect our ability to originate loans and leases, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately could affect our earnings. Future expansion involves risks — In the future, we may acquire all or part of other financial institutions and we may establish de novo branch offices. There could be considerable costs involved in executing our growth strategy. For instance, new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch expansion could be expected to negatively impact earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including the risk that: · We may incur substantial costs identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners, or in evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local managers, and opening new offices; · Our estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks relating to target institutions may not be accurate; · There may be substantial lag-time between completing an acquisition or opening a new office and generating sufficient assets and deposits to support costs of the expansion; · We may not be able to finance an acquisition, or the financing we obtain may have an adverse effect on our operating results or dilution of our existing shareholders; · The attention of our management in negotiating a transaction and integrating the operations and personnel of the combining businesses may be diverted from our existing business; · Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and; therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction; · We may enter new markets where we lack local experience; · We may incur goodwill in connection with an acquisition, or the goodwill we incur may become impaired, which results in adverse short-term effects on our operating results; or · We may lose key employees and clients. Competition from other financial services providers could adversely impact our results of operations — The banking and financial services business is highly competitive. We face competition in making loans and leases, attracting deposits and providing insurance, investment, trust, and other financial services. Increased competition in the banking and financial services businesses may reduce our market share, impair our growth or cause the prices we charge for our services to decline. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted in future periods depending upon the level and nature of competition we encounter in our various market areas. We are dependent upon the services of our management team — Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon our management and the banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel, many of whom do not have employment agreements with us. The loss of the chief executive officer and other senior management and key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Many of these senior officers have primary contact with our clients and are important in maintaining personalized relationships with our client base. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and possibly result in reduced revenues if we were unable to find suitable replacements promptly. Competition for senior personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our businesses and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, and results of operations. Technology security breaches and constant technological change — Any compromise of our security also could deter our clients from using our internet -7- table of contents banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and business. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better service clients and reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands, as well as create additional efficiencies within our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to credit risks relating to our loan and lease portfolios — We have certain lending policies and procedures in place that are designed to optimize loan and lease income within an acceptable level of risk. Our management reviews and approves these policies and procedures on a regular basis. A reporting system supplements the review process by providing our management with frequent reports related to loan and lease production, loan quality, concentrations of credit, loan and lease delinquencies, and nonperforming and potential problem loans and leases. Diversification in the loan and lease portfolios is a means of managing risk associated with fluctuations and economic conditions. We maintain an independent loan review department that reviews and validates the credit risk program on a periodic basis. Results of these reviews are presented to our management. The loan and lease review process complements and reinforces the risk identification and assessment decisions made by lenders and credit personnel, as well as our policies and procedures. In the financial services industry, there is always a risk that certain borrowers may not repay borrowings. Our reserve for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover the loan and lease losses that we may actually incur. If we experience defaults by borrowers in any of our businesses, our earnings could be negatively affected. Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect credit quality, particularly in our local business loan and lease portfolio. Changes in national economic conditions could also adversely affect the quality of our loan and lease portfolio and negate, to some extent, the benefits of national diversification through our Specialty Finance Group’s portfolio. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally involve higher credit risks than residential real estate and consumer loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate or equipment are often dependent upon the successful operation and management of the underlying assets, repayment of such loans may be influenced to a great extent by conditions in the market or the economy. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting standards. We obtain financial information and perform credit risk analysis on our customers. Credit criteria may include, but are not limited to, assessments of income, cash flows, and net worth; asset ownership; bank and trade credit reference; credit bureau report; and operational history. Commercial real estate or equipment loans are underwritten after evaluating and understanding the borrower's ability to operate profitably and generate positive cash flows. Our management examines current and projected cash flows of the borrower to determine the ability of the borrower to repay their obligations as agreed. Underwriting standards are designed to promote relationship banking rather than transactional banking. Most commercial and industrial loans are secured by the assets being financed or other business assets; however, some loans may be made on an unsecured basis. Our credit policy sets different maximum exposure limits both by business sector and our current and historical relationship and previous experience with each customer. We offer both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate consumer mortgage loans secured by properties, substantially all of which are located in our primary market area. Adjustable-rate mortgage loans help reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates; however, during periods of rising interest rates, the risk of default on adjustable-rate mortgage loans may increase as a result of repricing and the increased payments required from the borrower. Additionally, most residential mortgages are sold into the secondary market and serviced by our principal banking subsidiary, 1st Source Bank. Consumer loans are primarily all other non-real estate loans to individuals in our regional market area. Consumer loans can entail risk, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets. In these cases, any repossessed collateral may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower beyond obtaining a deficiency judgment. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness, or personal bankruptcy. The 1st Source Specialty Finance Group loan and lease portfolio consists of commercial loans and leases secured by construction and transportation equipment, including aircraft, autos, trucks, and vans. Finance receivables for this Group generally provide for monthly payments and may include prepayment penalty provisions. Our construction and transportation related businesses could be adversely affected by slow downs in the economy. Clients who rely on the use of assets financed through the Specialty Finance Group to produce income could be negatively affected, and we could experience substantial loan and lease losses. By the nature of the businesses these clients operate in, we could be adversely affected by continued rapid increases of fuel costs. Since some of the relationships in these industries are large (up to $25 million), a slow down could have a significant adverse impact on our performance. Our construction and transportation related businesses could be adversely impacted by the negative effects caused by high fuel costs, terrorist and other potential attacks, and other destabilizing events. These factors could contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan and lease portfolio, as they could have a negative impact on the travel sensitive businesses for which our specialty finance businesses provide financing. In addition, our leasing and equipment financing activity is subject to the risk of cyclical downturns, industry concentration and clumping, and other adverse economic developments affecting these industries and markets. This area of lending, with transportation in particular, is dependent upon general economic conditions and the strength of the travel, construction, and transportation industries. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us — Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due us. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. -8- table of contents Economic conditions and current levels of market volatility are unprecedented — We are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, unemployment, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. The volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices, security prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision — Our operations are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible change. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulation or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs and limit the types of financial services and products we may offer. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Reliance on dividends from our subsidiaries — Our parent company, 1st Source Corporation, receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may pay to our parent company. In the event our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to our parent company, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings — Current accounting and tax rules, standards, policies and interpretations influence the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as bankruptcy of major U.S. companies, have resulted in legislators, regulators, and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and various taxing authorities, responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revision to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting standards may adversely affect reported financial condition and results of operations. Impact of recently enacted legislation and our participation in the programs — The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA") is intended to stabilize and provide liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its regulations and other governmental programs will have on the financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects on us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Our participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect the value of our common stock and the rights of our common shareholders — The terms of the preferred stock we issued under the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program could reduce investment returns to our common shareholders by restricting dividends, diluting existing shareholders’ ownership interests, and restricting capital management practices. Without the prior consent of the Treasury, we will be prohibited from increasing our common stock dividends for the first three years while the Treasury holds the preferred stock. Also, the preferred stock requires quarterly dividends to be paid at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter until the stock is redeemed by us. The payments of these dividends will decrease the excess cash we otherwise have available to pay dividends on our common stock and to use for general corporate purposes, including working capital. Finally, we will be prohibited from continuing to pay dividends on our common stock unless we have fully paid all required dividends on the preferred stock issued to the Treasury. Although we fully expect to be able to pay all required dividends on the preferred stock (and to continue to pay dividends on our common stock at current levels), there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future which will have an adverse effect on our future earnings — Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of a large financial institution and several smaller ones have significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio to 1.01% as of June 30, 2008, 18 basis points below the reserve ratio as of March 31, 2008. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC released a five-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Assessment rates would increase by seven basis points across the range of risk weightings. In December 2008, the FDIC adopted its rule, uniformly increasing the risk-based assessment rates by seven basis points, annually, resulting in a range of risk-based assessment of 12 basis points to 50 basis points. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. As a member institution of the FDIC, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. Due to the continued failures of unaffiliated FDIC insured depository institutions, we anticipate that our FDIC deposit insurance premiums will increase in the future, perhaps significantly, which will adversely impact our future earnings. -9- table of contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 