ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in 1st Source's common stock is subject to risks inherent to 1st Source's business. The material risk and uncertainties that management believes affect 1st Source are described below. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair 1st Source's business operations. FLUCTUATIONS IN INTEREST RATES COULD REDUCE 1st SOURCE'S PROFITABILITY AND AFFECT THE VALUE OF ITS ASSETS -- Like other financial institutions, 1st Source is subject to interest rate risk. 1st Source's primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and leases and investments, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. 1st Source expects that it will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, 1st Source's interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest-bearing liabilities, or vice-versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying 1st Source's loan and lease and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to 1st Source's position, earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan and lease volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates as can the businesses of 1st Source's clients. Changes in levels of market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on 1st Source's net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability. Until recently, interest rates have been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the Federal Reserve has increased its target for Federal funds rate numerous times. While these short-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide for pricing deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which are used as a guide for pricing longer-term loans and leases) have not. This "flattening" of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on 1st Source's interest rate spread and net interest margin to date. If short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on its deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on long-term loans and leases and investments, 1st Source could experience compression of its interest rate spread and net interest margin, which could have a negative effect on 1st Source's profitability. 1st Source principally manages interest rate risk by managing the volume and mix of its earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, 1st Source may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If 1st Source is unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect 1st Source's ability to originate loans and leases, the value of its assets and its ability to realize gains from the sale of its assets, all of which ultimately could affect 1st Source's earnings. FUTURE EXPANSION INVOLVES RISKS -- In the future, 1st Source may acquire all or part of other financial institutions and 1st Source may establish de novo branch offices. There could be considerable costs involved in executing 1st Source's growth strategy. For instance, new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which 1st Source does not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch expansion could be expected to negatively impact earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number or risks, including the risk that: o 1st Source may incur substantial costs identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners, or in evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local managers, and opening new offices; o 1st Source's estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks relating to target institutions may not be accurate; o There may be substantial lag-time between completing an acquisition or opening a new office and generating sufficient assets and deposits to support costs of the expansion; o 1st Source may not be able to finance an acquisition, or the financing 1st Source obtains may have an adverse effect on its operating results or dilution of its existing shareholders; o 1st Source's management's attention in negotiating a transaction and integrating the operations and personnel of the combining businesses may be diverted from its existing business; o 1st Source may enter new markets where it lacks local experience; o 1st Source may incur goodwill in connection with an acquisition, or the goodwill it incurs may become impaired, which results in adverse short-term effects on 1st Source's operating results; or o 1st Source may lose key employees and clients. 7 COMPETITION FROM OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES PROVIDERS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT 1st SOURCE'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -- The banking and financial services business is highly competitive. 1st Source faces competition in making loans and leases, attracting deposits and providing insurance, investment, trust, and other financial services. Increased competition in the banking and financial services businesses may reduce 1st Source's market share, impair its growth or cause the prices 1st Source charges for its services to decline. 1st Source's results of operations may be adversely impacted in future periods depending upon the level and nature of competition it encounters in its various market areas. 1st SOURCE IS DEPENDENT UPON THE SERVICES OF ITS MANAGEMENT TEAM -- 1st Source's future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of its senior executives. 1st Source believes that its future results will also depend in part upon its ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified management. 1st Source is especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel, many of whom do not have employment agreements with 1st Source. The loss of the chief executive officer and other senior management and key personnel could have a material adverse impact on 1st Source's operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Many of these senior officers have primary contact with 1st Source's clients and are extremely important in maintaining personalized relationships with 1st Source's client base. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on 1st Source's operations and possibly result in reduced revenues if 1st Source was unable to find suitable replacements promptly. Competition for senior personnel is intense, and 1st Source may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to 1st Source's business and could have a material adverse effect on 1st Source's business, financial condition, and results of operations. TECHNOLOGY SECURITY BREACHES COULD EXPOSE 1st SOURCE TO POSSIBLE LIABILITY AND DAMAGE ITS REPUTATION -- Any compromise of 1st Source's security also could deter clients from using 1st Source's internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. 1st Source relies on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect 1st Source's systems from compromises or breaches of its security measures that could result in damage to 1st Source's reputation and business. FAILURE TO PROPERLY MANAGE THE REPLACEMENT OF THE MAJORITY OF 1st SOURCE'S CORE AND ANCILLARY DATA PROCESSING SYSTEMS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT 1st SOURCE'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -- 1st Source is in the process of replacing the majority of its core and ancillary data processing systems. 1st Source and its affiliates are licensing integrated core technology and ancillary systems. The core technology licensing includes a loan system, deposit system, general ledger system, and customer information file system. The target period for completion of the installation of the technology is March 2007. Failure to meet this deadline may be disruptive to 1st Source's business and could have a material adverse effect on 1st Source's financial condition and results of operations. 1st SOURCE IS SUBJECT TO CREDIT RISKS RELATING TO ITS LOAN AND LEASE PORTFOLIOS - -- 1st Source has certain lending policies and procedures in place that are designed to maximize loan and lease income within an acceptable level of risk. Management reviews and approves these policies and procedures on a regular basis. A reporting system supplements the review process by providing management with frequent reports related to loan and lease production, loan quality, concentrations of credit, loan and lease delinquencies, and nonperforming and potential problem loans and leases. Diversification in the loan and lease portfolios is a means of managing risk associated with fluctuations and economic conditions. 1st Source maintains an independent loan review department that reviews and validates the credit risk program on a periodic basis. Results of these reviews are presented to management. The loan and lease review process complements and reinforces the risk identification and assessment decisions made by lenders and credit personnel, as well as 1st Source's policies and procedures. In the financial services industry, there is always a risk that certain borrowers may not repay borrowings. 1st Source's reserve for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover the loan and lease losses that it may actually incur. If 1st Source experiences defaults by borrowers in any of its businesses, 1st Source's earnings could be negatively affected. Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect credit quality, particularly in its local business loan and lease portfolio. Changes in national economic conditions could also adversely affect the quality of its loan and lease portfolio and negate, to some extent, the benefits of national diversification through its Specialty Finance Group's portfolio. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally involve higher credit risks than residential real estate and consumer loans. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate or equipment are often dependent upon the successful operation and management of the underlying assets, repayment of such loans may be influenced to a great extent by conditions in the market or the economy. 1st Source seeks to minimize these risks through its underwriting standards. 1st Source obtains financial information and performs credit risk analysis on its customers. Credit criteria may include, but are not limited to, assessments of income, cash flows, and net worth; asset ownership; bank and trade credit reference; credit bureau report; and operational history. Commercial real estate or equipment loans are underwritten after evaluating and understanding the borrower's ability to operate profitably and generate positive cash flows. 1st Source's management examines current and projected cash flows of the borrower to determine the ability of the borrower to repay their obligations as agreed. Underwriting standards are designed to promote relationship banking rather than transactional banking. Most commercial and industrial loans are secured by the assets being financed or other business assets; however, some loans may be made on an unsecured basis. 1st Source's credit policy sets different maximum exposure limits both by business sector and its current and historical relationship and previous experience with each customer. 1st Source offers both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate consumer mortgage loans secured by properties, substantially all of which are located in 1st Source's primary market area. Adjustable-rate mortgage loans help reduce 1st Source's exposure to changes in interest rates; however, during periods of rising interest rates, the risk of default on adjustable-rate mortgage loans may increase as a result of repricing and the increased payments required from the borrower. Additionally, most residential mortgages are sold into the secondary market and serviced by 1st Source's mortgage subsidiary, Trustcorp. Consumer loans are primarily all other non-real estate loans to individuals in 1st Source's regional market area. Consumer loans can entail risk, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or secured by rapidly depreciating assets. In these cases, any repossessed collateral may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower beyond obtaining a deficiency judgment. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness, or personal bankruptcy. The 1st Source Specialty Finance Group loan and lease portfolio consists of commercial loans and leases secured by construction and transportation equipment, including aircraft, autos, trucks, and vans. Finance receivables for this Group generally provide for monthly payments and may include prepayment penalty provisions. 8 1st Source's construction and transportation related businesses could be adversely affected by slow downs in the economy. Clients who rely on the use of assets financed through the Specialty Finance Group to produce income could be negatively affected, and 1st Source could experience substantial loan and lease losses. By the nature of the businesses these clients operate in, 1st Source could be adversely affected by continued rapid increases of fuel costs. Since some of the relationships in these industries are large (up to $15 million), a slow down could have a significant adverse impact on 1st Source's performance. 1st Source's construction and transportation related businesses could be adversely impacted by the negative effects caused by high fuel costs, terrorist attacks, potential attacks, and other destabilizing events. These factors could contribute to the deterioration of the quality of 1st Source's loan and lease portfolio, as they could have a negative impact on the travel sensitive businesses for which 1st Source's specialty finance businesses provide financing. In addition, 1st Source's leasing and equipment financing activity is subject to the risk of cyclical downturns, industry concentration and clumping, and other adverse economic developments affecting these industries and markets. This area of lending, with transportation in particular, is dependent upon general economic conditions and the strength of the travel, construction, and transportation industries. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 