ITEM 1a. risk factors Material factors that may adversely affect our business and operations are summarized below. The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. See “Forward-Looking Statements” contained herein on page 3. REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS’ VALUE AND INCOME FLUCTUATE DUE TO VARIOUS FACTORS. The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. The factors that affect the value of our real estate include, among other things: · global, national, regional and local economic conditions; · competition from other available space; · local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; · how well we manage our properties; · changes in market rental rates; · the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; · whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants; · changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; · whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive; · changes in space utilization by our tenants due to technology, economic conditions and business environment; · the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; · availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all; · inflation or deflation; · fluctuations in interest rates; · our ability to obtain adequate insurance; · changes in zoning laws and taxation; · government regulation; · consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States or individual acts of violence in public spaces, including retail centers; · potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; · natural disasters; · general competitive factors; and · climate changes. The rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. If our rental revenues and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay our indebtedness and for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. Capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of our debt and equity securities. There are many factors that can affect the value of our equity securities and any debt securities we may issue in the future, including the state of the capital markets and economy. Demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide as it did in 2008 and 2009, due to the economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. Government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets. The cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. Our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our equity securities and any debt securities we may issue in the future. 6 We are subject to risks that affect the general and New York City retail environments. Certain of our properties are New York City retail properties. As such, these properties are affected by the general and New York City retail environments, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, unemployment rates, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies. These factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail locations. Real estate is a competitive business. We compete with a large number of property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments than we are. Principal factors of competition include rents charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and breadth and quality of services provided. Our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the global, national and local economies, the financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, the availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation, population and employment trends, zoning laws, and our ability to lease, sublease or sell our properties, at profitable levels. We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay. Our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In addition, because a majority of our income is derived from renting real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to stockholders will decrease if certain of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain our occupancy levels on favorable terms. If a tenant does not pay its rent, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and might incur substantial legal and other costs. During periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates. We may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. When our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. Even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. In addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenues, net income and available cash. From time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to have difficulty leasing the remainder of the affected property. Our leases generally do not contain restrictions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of our tenants. As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in a lower level of net income and funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to stockholders. 731 Lexington Avenue accounts for a substantial portion of our revenues. Loss of or damage to the building would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 731 Lexington Avenue accounted for $137,411,000, $133,024,000 and $128,845,000, or approximately 65% of our total revenues in each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Loss of or damage to the building in excess of our insurance coverage, including as a result of a terrorist attack, would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Bloomberg represents a significant portion of our revenues. Loss of Bloomberg as a tenant or deterioration in Bloomberg’s credit quality could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Bloomberg accounted for $94,468,000, $91,109,000 and $88,164,000, or approximately 45% of our total revenues in each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. No other tenant accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. If we were to lose Bloomberg as a tenant, or if Bloomberg were to be unable to fulfill its obligations under its lease, it would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 7 We face risks associated with our tenants being designated “Prohibited Persons” by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar requirements. Pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and other laws, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned (“Prohibited Persons”) from conducting business or engaging in transactions in the United States and thereby restricts our doing business with such persons. We are required to comply with OFAC and related requirements and may be required to terminate or otherwise amend our leases, loans, and other agreements. If a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the OFAC list or is otherwise a party with which we are prohibited from doing business, we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement. Any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. We face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons who access our systems from inside or outside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Our IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption involving our IT networks and related systems could disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our tenants; result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or which could expose us to damage claims by third-parties for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; or damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally. Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 8 We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused such release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure at or from our properties. Each of our properties has been subjected to varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times. To date, these environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us. In addition, we may become subject to costs or taxes, or increases therein, associated with natural resource or energy usage (such as a “carbon tax”). These costs or taxes could increase our operating costs and decrease the cash available to pay our obligations or distribute to equity holders. Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We maintain general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and per property, and all-risk property and rental value insurance coverage with limits of $1.7 billion per occurrence, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods and earthquakes on each of our properties. Fifty Ninth Street Insurance Company, LLC (“FNSIC”), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a direct insurer for coverage for acts of terrorism, including nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological (“NBCR”) acts, as defined by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act, which expires in December 2020. Coverage for acts of terrorism (including NBCR acts) is up to $1.7 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate. Coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding NBCR acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance companies with no exposure to FNSIC. For NBCR acts, FNSIC is responsible for a $275,000 deductible ($348,000 effective January 1, 2016) and 15% of the balance (16% effective January 1, 2016) of a covered loss, and the Federal government is responsible for the remaining 85% (84% effective January 1, 2016) of a covered loss. We are ultimately responsible for any loss incurred by FNSIC. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism. However, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future. We are responsible for deductibles and losses in excess of our insurance coverage, which could be material. Our mortgage loans are non-recourse to us and contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. Although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. If lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain, it could adversely affect our ability to finance or refinance our properties. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. The Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their counsel. If, under the ADA, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders. 9 Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of operations. We depend upon anchor tenants to attract shoppers at our Rego Park I and II retail properties. Our Rego Park I and II retail properties are anchored by well-known department stores and other tenants who generate shopping traffic. The value of these properties would be adversely affected if our anchor tenants failed to meet their contractual obligations, sought concessions in order to continue operations or ceased their operations, including as a result of bankruptcy. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to economic conditions, closing of anchors or for other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of a default by a tenant or anchor, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. OUR INVESTMENTS ARE CONCENTRATED IN THE GREATER NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA. CIRCUMSTANCES AFFECTING THIS AREA GENERALLY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. All of our properties are in the greater New York City metropolitan area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent in that area. All of our revenues come from properties located in the greater New York City metropolitan area. Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact this market in either the short-term or long-term. Declines in the economy or declines in the real estate market in this area could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. In addition to the factors affecting the national economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in this area include: · financial performance and productivity of the media, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; · unemployment levels; · business layoffs or downsizing; · industry slowdowns; · relocations of businesses; · changing demographics; · increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; · infrastructure quality; and · any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate. It is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the greater New York City metropolitan region, and more generally of the United States, on the real estate market in this area. Local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our business and profitability. Terrorist attacks, such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. All of our properties are located in the greater New York City metropolitan area, and our most significant property, 731 Lexington Avenue, is located on Lexington Avenue and 59th Street in Manhattan. In response to a terrorist attack or the perceived threat of terrorism, tenants in this area may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in this area. This would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these markets, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could decline materially. Natural disasters and the effects of climate change could have a concentrated impact on the area which we operate and could adversely impact our results. Our investments are in the greater New York City metropolitan area and since they are concentrated along the Eastern Seaboard, natural disasters, including hurricanes, could impact our properties. Potentially adverse consequences of “global warming” could similarly have an impact on our properties. As a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or repair costs which may or may not be fully covered by insurance and to the risk of business interruption. The incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results. 10 WE MAY ACQUIRE OR SELL ASSETS OR DEVELOP PROPERTIES. OUR FAILURE OR INABILITY TO CONSUMMATE THESE TRANSACTIONS OR MANAGE THESE TRANSACTIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. We may acquire or develop properties and this may create risks, including failing to complete such activities on time or within budget, competition for such activities that could increase our costs, being unable to lease newly acquired, developed or redeveloped properties at rents sufficient to cover our costs, difficulties in integrating acquisitions and weaker than expected performance. Although our stated business strategy is not to engage in acquisitions, we may acquire or develop properties when we believe that an acquisition or development project is otherwise consistent with our business strategy. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. In addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. When we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly-developed, redeveloped or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover costs of acquisition, development or redevelopment and operations. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention. Acquisitions or developments in new markets or types of properties where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. We may abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated. It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility. Real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Moreover, our ability to buy, sell, or finance real estate assets may be adversely affected during periods of uncertainty or unfavorable conditions in the credit markets as we, or potential buyers of our assets, may experience difficulty in obtaining financing. We have an investment in marketable equity securities. The value of this investment may decline. We have an investment in Macerich, a retail shopping center company. As of December 31, 2015, this investment had a carrying amount of $43,191,000. A significant decline in the value of this investment due to, among other reasons, Macerich’s operating performance or economic or market conditions, may result in the recognition of an impairment loss, which could be material. OUR ORGANIZATIONAL AND FINANCIAL STRUCTURE GIVES RISE TO OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RISKS. Substantially all of our assets are owned by subsidiaries. We depend on dividends and distributions from these subsidiaries. The creditors of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to us. Substantially all of our properties and assets are held through our subsidiaries. We depend on cash distributions and dividends from our subsidiaries for substantially all of our cash flow. The creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s obligations to them when due and payable before that subsidiary may make distributions or dividends to us. Thus, our ability to pay dividends, if any, to our security holders depends on our subsidiaries’ ability to first satisfy their obligations to their creditors and our ability to satisfy our obligations, if any, to our creditors. In addition, our participation in any distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency of the subsidiary, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if any, of the applicable direct or indirect subsidiaries are satisfied. Our existing financing documents contain covenants and restrictions that may restrict our operational and financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2015, we had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of $1,059,587,000, secured by four of our properties. These mortgages contain covenants that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness on these properties, provide for lender approval of tenants’ leases in certain circumstances, and provide for yield maintenance or defeasance premiums to prepay them. These mortgages may significantly restrict our operational and financial flexibility. In addition, if we were to fail to perform our obligations under existing indebtedness or become insolvent or were liquidated, secured creditors would be entitled to payment in full from the proceeds of the sale of the pledged assets prior to any proceeds being paid to other creditors or to any holders of our securities. In such an event, it is possible that we would have insufficient assets remaining to make payments to other creditors or to any holders of our securities. 11 We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that could affect our future operations. As of December 31, 2015, total debt outstanding was $1,059,587,000. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property. Should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from such property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value. We have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms. As of December 31, 2015, total debt outstanding was $1,059,587,000 and our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value was 38.4%. “Enterprise value” means the market equity value of our common stock, plus debt, less cash and cash equivalents at such date. In addition, we have significant debt service obligations. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our scheduled cash payments for principal and interest were $25,547,000. In the future, we may incur additional debt, and thus increase the ratio of total debt to total enterprise value. If our level of indebtedness increases, there may be an increased risk of default which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment, the cost of refinancing our existing debt and any new debt or market rate security or instrument may increase. Continued uncertainty in the equity and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms or at all, which may negatively affect our ability to refinance our debt. We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT, and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates. Although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we might fail to remain qualified. Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a REIT. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. The federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. If we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to stockholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. We face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. From time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. The shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. These increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends. Loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common stock. We are dependent on the efforts of Steven Roth, our Chief Executive Officer. Although we believe that we could find a replacement, the loss of his services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common stock. 12 ALEXANDER’S CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND APPLICABLE LAW MAY HINDER ANY ATTEMPT TO ACQUIRE US. Provisions in Alexander’s certificate of incorporation and by laws, as well as provisions of the Code and Delaware corporate law, may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or a tender offer, even if such action might be beneficial to stockholders, and limit the stockholders’ opportunity to receive a potential premium for their shares of common stock over then prevailing market prices. Primarily to facilitate maintenance of its qualification as a REIT, Alexander’s certificate of incorporation generally prohibits ownership, directly, indirectly or beneficially, by any single stockholder of more than 9.9% of the outstanding shares of preferred stock of any class or 4.9% of outstanding common stock of any class. The Board of Directors may waive or modify these ownership limits with respect to one or more persons if it is satisfied that ownership in excess of these limits will not jeopardize Alexander’s status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In addition, the Board of Directors has, subject to certain conditions and limitations, exempted Vornado and certain of its affiliates from these ownership limitations. Stock owned in violation of these ownership limits will be subject to the loss of rights and other restrictions. These ownership limits may have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change in control. Alexander’s Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors. Directors of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. Staggered terms of directors may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management, even though changes in management or a change in control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, Alexander’s charter documents authorize the Board of Directors to: · cause Alexander’s to issue additional authorized but unissued common stock or preferred stock; · classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred stock; · set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified stock that Alexander’s issues; and · increase, without stockholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that Alexander’s may issue. The Board of Directors could establish a series of preferred stock with terms that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Alexander’s or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders, although the Board of Directors does not, at present, intend to establish a series of preferred stock of this kind. Alexander’s charter documents contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, Vornado, Interstate and its three general partners (each of whom are both trustees of Vornado and Directors of Alexander’s) together beneficially own approximately 58.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock. This degree of ownership is likely to reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of the Company by a third party. We may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our stockholders. Our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other assets, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not control these policies. 13 OUR OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS MAY GIVE RISE TO CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. Steven Roth, Vornado and Interstate may exercise substantial influence over us. They and some of our other directors and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us. As of December 31, 2015, Interstate and its partners owned approximately 7.1% of the common shares of beneficial interest of Vornado and approximately 26.3% of our outstanding common stock. Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the partners of Interstate. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of our Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado and the Managing General Partner of Interstate. Mr. Wight and Mr. Mandelbaum are both trustees of Vornado and members of our Board of Directors. In addition, Vornado manages and leases the real estate assets of Interstate. As of December 31, 2015, Vornado owned 32.4% of our outstanding common stock, in addition to the 26.3% owned by Interstate and its partners. In addition to the relationships described in the immediately preceding paragraph, Dr. Richard West is a trustee of Vornado and a member of our Board of Directors and Joseph Macnow is our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Executive Vice President – Finance and Chief Administrative Officer of Vornado. Stephen W. Theriot, our Assistant Treasurer, is the Chief Financial Officer of Vornado. Because of their overlapping interests, Vornado, Mr. Roth, Interstate and the other individuals noted in the preceding paragraphs may have substantial influence over Alexander’s, and on the outcome of any matters submitted to Alexander’s stockholders for approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among Vornado, Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate and other security holders. Vornado, Mr. Roth and Interstate may, in the future, engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as, which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, by us, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions, and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities. There may be conflicts of interest between Vornado, its affiliates and us. Vornado manages, develops and leases our properties under agreements that have one-year terms expiring in March of each year, which are automatically renewable. Because we share common senior management with Vornado and because four of the trustees of Vornado are on our Board of Directors, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. For a description of Interstate’s ownership of Vornado and Alexander’s, see “Steven Roth, Vornado and Interstate may exercise substantial influence over us. They and some of our other directors and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us.” above. 14 THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF ALEXANDER’S COMMON STOCK AND THE MARKET FOR THOSE SHARES GIVE RISE TO VARIOUS RISKS. The price of our common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate. The trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: · our financial condition and performance; · the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; · our dividend policy; · the reputation of REITs and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of REIT equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; · uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets; · fluctuations in interest rates; · changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs; · failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; · speculation in the press or investment community; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · the extent of institutional investor interest in us; · the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; · fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for REITs and other real estate related companies; · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and · all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-K. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for stockholders. Alexander’s has additional shares of its common stock available for future issuance, which could decrease the market price of the common stock currently outstanding. The interest of our current stockholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2015, we had authorized but unissued 4,826,550 shares of common stock, par value of $1.00 per share and 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share; of which 6,881 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance upon redemption of the deferred stock units previously granted to our Board of Directors. In addition, 887,859 shares are available for future grant under the terms of our 2006 Omnibus Stock Plan. These awards may be granted in the form of options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, deferred stock units, or other equity-based interests, and if granted, would reduce that number of shares available for future grants, provided however that an award that may be settled only in cash, would not reduce the number of shares available under the plan. We cannot predict the impact that future issuances of common or preferred stock or any exercise of outstanding options or grants of additional equity-based interests would have on the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 15 ITEM 2. properties The following table shows the location, ownership, approximate size (excluding parking garages) and occupancy of each of our properties as of December 31, 2015. Average Annualized Lease Expiration (s) Land Building Occupancy Rent Per Original Option Property Acreage Square Feet Rate Square Foot (1) Tenants Term (2) Term (3) Operating Properties: 731 Lexington Avenue New York, New York Office 889,000 (4) 100% $ 107.10 (4) Bloomberg L.P. 2029 2039 Retail 83,000 The Home Depot 2025 2035 34,000 The Container Store 2021 N/A 27,000 Hennes & Mauritz 2019 N/A 30,000 Various Various Various 174,000 100% 178.09 1.9 1,063,000 Rego Park I Queens, New York 195,000 Sears 2021 N/A 50,000 Burlington Coat Factory 2022 2027 46,000 Bed Bath & Beyond 2021 N/A 36,000 Marshalls 2021 N/A 16,000 Old Navy 2021 N/A 4.8 343,000 100% 37.97 Rego Park II Queens, New York 145,000 Costco 2034 2059 135,000 Century 21 2030 2050 133,000 Kohl’s 2030 2050 47,000 Toys "R"Us/Babies "R" Us 2021 2036 149,000 Various Various Various 6.6 609,000 99% 44.01 The Alexander apartment tower, 312 units Queens, New York - 255,000 26% 43.91 Residential (5) N/A Paramus Paramus, New Jersey 30.3 - 100% - IKEA (ground lessee) 2041 N/A Flushing Queens, New York (ground leased through January 2037) 1 167,000 100% 16.53 New World Mall LLC 2027 2037 Property to be Developed: Rego Park III, adjacent to Rego Park II Queens, New York 3.2 - - - - - - 2,437,000 (1) Represents the contractual weighted average rent per square foot, which excludes the impact of tenant concessions (such as free rent and tenant reimbursements), as ofDecember 31, 2015. For a discussion of our leasing activity, see Item 7 - Overview - Square Footage, Occupancy and Leasing Activity. (2) Represents the year in which the tenant's lease expires, without consideration of any renewal or extension options. Lease expiration dates are based on noncancellablelease terms and do not extend beyond any early termination rights that tenants may have under their lease. (3) Represents the year in which the tenant's lease expires if all renewal or extension options are exercised. (4) Reflects building square feet and average annualized rent per square foot resulting from the January 2016 lease amendment. Refer to page 17 for further discussion. (5) Residential tenants have one year leases. 16 