ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following: We may not be able to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete our Merger with a subsidiary of Scientific Games in the anticipated timeframe: Ø As previously announced, on January 30, 2013, WMS, Scientific Games and two subsidiaries of Scientific Games entered into the Merger Agreement, pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, a subsidiary of Scientific Games will merge with and into WMS, with WMS surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Scientific Games. On March 11, 2013, we received notice from the Federal Trade Commission of the early termination of the waiting period applicable to the consummation of the Merger under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1974, as amended. Approval of WMS’ stockholders was obtained on May 10, 2013. There are a number of risks and uncertainties associated with the Merger, and completion of the Merger is contingent upon customary closing conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that the required regulatory approvals will be obtained or that such approvals will be obtained without conditions that are not anticipated, that the other conditions of the Merger will be 22 Table of Contents satisfied or waived or that other events will not intervene to delay or result in the termination of the Merger. Furthermore, certain lawsuits have been filed challenging the Merger. These lawsuits could result in the Merger not being completed or in a delay in the completion of the Merger. We can give no assurance that the conditions to the Merger will be satisfied. Failure to complete the Merger may adversely affect WMS. While the Merger is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could disrupt our business: Ø As we have already experienced and whether or not the pending Merger is completed, the pending Merger may disrupt the current plans and operations of WMS, which has had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our employees and other key personnel may have uncertainties about the effect of the pending Merger and the uncertainties may impact our ability to retain, recruit and hire key personnel while the Merger is pending or if it fails. We have incurred and may continue to incur unexpected costs, charges or expenses while the Merger is pending or resulting from the Merger. Furthermore, we cannot predict how our suppliers, customers and other business partners will view or react to the pending Merger and some have been and may in the future be hesitant to do business with us in light of uncertainties about our ability to perform due to the pending Merger. If we are unable to reassure our customers, suppliers and other business partners to continue transacting business with us, our financial results may be adversely affected. Ø The pursuit of the Merger and preparations for integration have placed and will continue to place a significant burden on many employees and internal resources. If, despite our efforts, key personnel depart because of these uncertainties and burdens, or because they do not wish to remain with a combined company, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Ø In addition, the Merger Agreement generally requires WMS to operate our business in the ordinary course of business pending consummation of the Merger and it also restricts WMS from taking certain actions with respect to its business and financial affairs without Scientific Games’ pre-approval, and these restrictions could be in place for an extended period of time if the consummation of the Merger is delayed. For these and other reasons, the pendency of the Merger could adversely affect our business and financial results. In the event that the pending Merger is not completed, the trading price of WMS common stock and WMS’ future business and financial results may be negatively affected: Ø The conditions to the completion of the Merger may not be satisfied as noted above. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we would still remain liable for significant transaction costs and the focus of our management would have been diverted from seeking other potential strategic opportunities, in each case without realizing any benefits of a completed Merger. Depending on the reasons for not completing the Merger, we could also be required to pay a termination fee of $44.3 million. For these and other reasons, a failed Merger could adversely affect our business and financial results. Furthermore, if we do not complete the Merger, the price of our common stock may decline significantly from the current market price which may reflect a market assumption that the Merger will be completed with stockholders receiving $26.00 for each share of WMS common stock held. Gaming licenses, regulatory approvals and gaming legislation impact the ability to operate our business and sell and lease our products: Ø The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines, games, the operation of our online casino and remote game servers is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulations and taxes. Most of the jurisdictions in which we operate require licenses, permits, documentation of qualification, including evidence of financial stability and other forms of approval of our company and our officers, directors, major security holders and key personnel, along with our products. Licenses, approvals or 23 Table of Contents findings of suitability may be revoked, suspended or conditioned. The loss of a license in one jurisdiction could trigger the loss of a license or affect our eligibility for a license in another jurisdiction. In addition, gaming authorities may levy fines against us or seize our assets if we violate gaming laws or regulations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits or approvals, that the licensing process will not result in delays or adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain key personnel, that we can comply with any new requirements or regulations adopted, or that complying with these regulations will not increase our costs. Ø The laws and regulations governing gaming in various jurisdictions evolve and change over time. These changes may require us to make changes to our gaming machines and games, levy additional taxes and fees on our revenues, increase our cost of compliance, or could cause restrictions on operations and reduce our profitability in certain jurisdictions. Changes in regulations may also create uncertainty and cause our customers to delay purchasing decisions. We cannot guarantee that we will not be adversely impacted by changes in gaming regulations. Ø The gaming authorities in some jurisdictions may investigate companies or individuals who have a material relationship with us or our security holders to determine whether the selected individual or security holder is acceptable to those gaming authorities. Any such investigated company, individual or security holder must pay the costs of the investigation and such an investigation may be time consuming and distracting to our operations. Failure of companies, individuals or security holders to cooperate with any such investigation could negatively impact our ability to obtain or maintain our licenses. Additionally the regulatory review process and licensing requirements may preclude access to new third-party technologies if those parties either are not willing to subject themselves to review or do not meet regulatory requirements. Ø Each of our games and gaming machine hardware and software and our interactive gaming products and services must, when required, be approved in the jurisdictions in which it is operated, and we cannot assure you that a particular game and gaming machines, hardware, software or our interactive gaming products and services will be approved in any jurisdiction. Our networked gaming technology requires regulatory approval in gaming jurisdictions prior to any shipment or implementation and, although we have received approvals from some jurisdictions, we cannot assure you that we will receive the additional approvals we would need to offer the product or service in other gaming jurisdictions. Ø To expand into new jurisdictions, we may need to be licensed, obtain approvals of our products and/or seek licensure of our officers, directors, major security holders, key personnel or business partners. If we fail to seek, do not receive or receive a revocation of a license in a particular jurisdiction for our games, gaming machines, hardware, software or interactive gaming products and services, we cannot operate, sell or place on a participation or leased basis our products in that jurisdiction. Ø Delays in, amendments to or repeals of legislation approving gaming or the expansion of gaming in jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to commence operations may adversely affect our operations. Delays in approvals of our customers’ operations or expansions of their operations may adversely affect our operations. Ø Some jurisdictions require gaming manufacturers to obtain regulatory approval before engaging in certain transactions, such as business combinations, reorganizations, borrowings, stock offerings and share repurchases. Obtaining regulatory approvals can be time consuming and costly. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary approvals or that the approval process will not result in delays or changes to our business plans. Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and current unfavorable economic conditions have impacted and could continue to negatively impact our business: Ø Demand for our products and services depends largely upon favorable conditions in the gaming industry, which is highly sensitive to players’ disposable incomes and gaming activities. Existing unfavorable general economic conditions reduce disposable income of casino patrons and result in fewer 24 Table of Contents patrons visiting casinos and lower amounts spent per casino visit. This decline in disposable income could result in reduced play levels on our participation gaming machines, causing our cash flows and revenues from these products to decline. Additionally, higher airfares, gasoline prices and other costs may adversely affect the number of players visiting our customers’ casinos. Current unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased liquidity in many financial markets and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. Any significant or prolonged decrease in consumer spending on leisure activities could greatly affect the casino industry, causing some or all of our customers to decrease spending or ultimately declare bankruptcy, each of which would adversely affect our business. Ø A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain adequate levels of capital to finance their ongoing operations reduces their resources available to purchase our products and services, which adversely affects our revenues. If we experience a significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products, we could incur losses and also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. Ø Furthermore, current unfavorable economic conditions have and could continue to impact the ability of our customers to make timely payments to us. In mid-fiscal 2009, we began implementing a program to provide a greater than historical amount of extended payment term financing arrangements to our customers, which could increase our collection risk. We have continued this program throughout fiscal 2013 and this program will likely continue until the economy and consumer discretionary spending improves. Our bad debt expense decreased by $3.1 million to $3.6 million as our total accounts and notes receivable, net in fiscal 2013 increased by $4.7 million compared to fiscal 2012. We experienced fewer customers filing for protection under the bankruptcy laws in fiscal 2013 than in fiscal 2012. We did however experience a higher level of customer refinancings in fiscal 2013 than in fiscal 2012. Financing to customers in connection with sales also increased in fiscal 2012 and 2013 as a result of a competitive marketplace and a slow, challenging economic recovery. If customers are not able to pay us, we may incur additional provisions for bad debt related to lack of collectability of certain receivables. Ø In fiscal 2012, we reduced our global workforce by approximately 10% and incurred pre-tax charges of $9.7 million primarily for cash severance costs and other expenses. The workforce reduction and any future workforce or other expense reductions may have an adverse impact on our development activities, costs and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our revenue and profitability depend on our ability to continue to timely develop new technologies and high earning products and services that appeal to the player and are free from hardware or software anomalies and cannot be fraudulently manipulated: Ø The gaming business is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and the introduction of new products using such technologies. We must continually adapt our products to incorporate new technologies and if we cannot adapt, or do not timely adapt new technologies, our operations may be adversely impacted. Ø The success of a newly introduced technology is dependent on our customers’ acceptance of a dynamic change in the way they manage their business and such acceptance may nevertheless only build gradually over time. Delays in acceptance by our customers of new technologies have and may continue to adversely affect our operations. Ø Our success depends upon our ability to adapt our manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the demands of producing new and innovative products. Because our newer products are generally more technologically sophisticated than those we have produced in the past, we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot efficiently adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. 25 Table of Contents Ø Our success also depends on continually developing and successfully marketing new games, gaming machines and our interactive gaming products and services with strong and sustained player appeal. We are under continuous pressure to anticipate player preferences to gain acceptance of our new products, avoid jackpot fatigue (declining play levels on smaller jackpots) and continue to provide successful products which garner a high level of play. A new game or gaming machine will be accepted by our customers only if we can show that it is likely to produce more revenue and net win to a casino operator or player appeal to an interactive customer than our existing products and services or our competitors’ products and services in some cases. Gaming machines can be installed in casinos on a trial basis, and only after a successful trial period are the gaming machines purchased by the casinos. Additionally, we are at risk that customers may cancel pending orders for products that are not performing to expectations at other casinos. If a new product does not achieve significant market acceptance, we may not recover our development, regulatory approval and promotion costs. Ø Participation gaming machines are replaced on short notice by casino operators if the gaming machines do not meet and sustain revenue and profitability expectations. Therefore, these gaming machines are particularly susceptible to pressure from competitors, declining popularity, changes in economic conditions and increased taxation and are at risk of replacement by the casinos, which would end our recurring revenues from these gaming machines unless they can be placed with another customer or repurposed. Ø Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware anomalies and fraudulent manipulation of our gaming machines and our interactive gaming products and services. All of our games are designed with security features to prevent fraudulent activity. However, we cannot guarantee that these features will effectively stop all fraudulent activities. If our security features do not prevent fraud, we could adversely be affected. Ø Our gaming machines have experienced anomalies and fraudulent manipulation in the past. Games and gaming machines may be replaced by casinos and other gaming machine operators if they do not perform according to expectations, or may be shut down by regulators. The occurrence of anomalies in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines and our interactive gaming products and services may give rise to claims for lost revenues and earnings and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses, or other disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our gaming machines and our interactive gaming products and services, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other projects to correct these issues, which may delay our other projects. Ø In the past, we have experienced delays in launching new products due to the complexity or innovative technologies imbedded in our products. Especially in our gaming operations, such delays can cause a decrease in our revenue. As a result of not having as many new participation game themes approved as we anticipated, performance of some of our older game themes have lagged resulting in a higher level of removals of participation gaming machines, which can cause a reduction in the installed base and our revenues and profits. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary approvals or that the approval process will not result in delays or changes to our business plans. Ø Our network gaming applications interface with each gaming machine operating system software that we refer to as a “game platform.” The game platform manages the software needed to operate the gaming machine. Our network gaming applications, game platforms and the related computer systems are constantly updated and revised to keep pace with the ever-increasing complexity of modern game play, technology and regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, maintain or manage the level of complexities arising from network gaming applications and gaming platforms and obtain all necessary approvals or that the approval process will not result in costly delays, lost network gaming application revenue or changes to our business plans. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent on our intellectual property and trade secrets and must ensure we are licensed to use intellectual property and trade secrets owned by others: Ø Our competitors have been granted patents covering, among other items, numerous gaming machine features, bonusing techniques and related technologies. If our products use processes or other subject matter that is claimed under our competitors’ patents, or if other companies obtain patents claiming subject matter that we use, those companies may bring infringement actions against us. We might then be forced to discontinue the affected products or be required to obtain licenses from the company holding the patent, if it is willing to give us a license, to continue to develop, manufacture or market our products. We might also be found liable for treble damage claims relating to past use of the patented subject matter if the infringement is found to be willful. Ø Substantially all of our gaming machines and our interactive gaming products and services utilize trademarks, technologies and other intellectual properties licensed from third parties. Our future success may depend upon our ability to obtain, retain and/or expand licenses for popular technologies and intellectual properties in a competitive market. In the event that we cannot renew and/or expand existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue or limit our use of the games or gaming machines that use the licensed technology or intellectual property or bear the licensed marks. Ø Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain trademark protection for the names or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright protection and patent protection of our proprietary technologies, intellectual property and other game innovations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to build and maintain goodwill in our trademarks or obtain trademark or patent protection, that any trademark, copyright or issued patent will provide competitive advantages for us or that our intellectual properties will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors. Ø We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or proprietary information will be honored. Despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. Ø We have entered into multiple agreements to license intellectual property and technologies that, as of June 30, 2013, had a net book value of $106.4 million and total potential future commitment of $60.8 million. We also have other finite-lived intangible assets, including patents and trademarks, with aggregate net book value of $25.5 million as of June 30, 2013. If we determine that we may not realize the value of any of the finite-lived intangible assets, net or commitments, we would record an immediate charge against earnings up to the full amount of these net assets or commitments in the period in which such determination is made. See Note 9. “Intangible Assets” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the amount of intangible assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Note 15. “Commitments, Contingencies and Indemnifications” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on total potential future commitments. Our future profits may be limited or reduced due to the slow growth of new gaming jurisdictions or additional casinos in existing jurisdictions, declines in the replacement cycle of gaming machines, and ownership changes and consolidation in the casino industry: Ø Demand for our products is driven by the establishment of new land-based or online gaming jurisdictions, the opening of additional casinos in existing jurisdictions or expansion of existing casinos and the replacement of existing gaming machines. Governments usually require a public referendum and legislative action before establishing or expanding gaming, whether in a land-based or online jurisdiction. The debate over gaming is extensive with various organizations actively opposing gaming. Opposition to gaming could restrict or prohibit the approval, continuation or expansion of our gaming operations and thereby limit or reduce our future profits. 27 Table of Contents Ø The opening or expansion of casinos fluctuates with demand, economic conditions and the availability of financing. Slow growth in the opening or expansion of casinos, or low levels of demand for gaming machine replacements, could reduce the demand for our products and our future profits. Moreover, because repeat customers represent a substantial part of our sales, our business and profits could be affected if our customers are sold to or merge with other entities. Such entities may purchase more products and services of our competitors, or reduce spending on our products, or cause downward pricing pressures. The consolidation among casino operators could result in order cancellations, a slowing in the replacement cycle for existing gaming machines, or require our current customers to purchase our competitors’ products, any of which could negatively impact our business. Our industry is competitive: Ø The gaming business is intensely competitive. We compete on price, pricing models, financing terms, and the content, features and functionality of our hardware and software products and services. Some of our competitors are large companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than ours. In addition, new competitors may enter our key markets, as evidenced by an influx of small gaming equipment companies that have entered the market over the last few years. This increase in equipment companies has increased competition in recent years. Additionally, the consolidation of casino operators, and reduction in capital expenditures by casino operators resulting from the economic downturn and decreased player activity has significantly increased the level of competition among both casino operators and equipment companies. This increased level of competition has caused more customers to focus on price in addition to performance, longevity, and player acceptance when selecting gaming equipment. Ø Another competitive factor in our industry is the competition to obtain space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors. Competitors with a larger installed base of gaming machines and game themes than ours have an advantage in obtaining and retaining the most space and best positions in casinos and established online casinos have the advantage of an established player network. Ø In addition, some of our competitors have developed and sell or otherwise provide to customers centralized player tracking and accounting systems, which allow casino operators to accumulate accounting and performance data about the operation of gaming machines. By not having such systems, we are at a competitive disadvantage. Ø Our profitability is somewhat dependent on our ability to successfully enter into new markets and new channels of distribution, such as networked gaming software applications and interactive gaming. We currently operate an online casino and offer other interactive gaming products and services, but we cannot guarantee user acceptance, expansion of markets or profitability for our interactive gaming products and services. While we have expanded into social gaming, several of our competitors and other companies have also entered the market and we expect to see more companies explore this opportunity in the coming years. We cannot assure you that our interactive gaming products and services will continue to be popular or that we will be able to attract the attention of players as the market becomes flooded with new offerings. Ø In certain sales of new gaming machines and placement of participation gaming machines we have offered free gaming machines and/or free conversion kits, while at the same time we continue to charge our customers for gaming machines and conversion kits, including CPU-NXT and CPU-NXT2 operating system upgrade kits. We cannot be sure that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the number of free gaming machines and conversion kits that we are expected to offer to our customers, which would decrease the revenue we expect to receive. Ø We have expanded our use of extended payment term financing of customer’s purchases over the last four years and expect to continue providing a higher level of extended payment term financing until the economy improves and demand from our customers for such financings abates. We believe that our competitors have also increased the amount of extended payment term financings offered to customers. 28 Table of Contents As some of our competitors are larger than we are they may be able to provide a greater amount or better terms than we can and that may impact demand for our products. In addition, both extended payment term financing and operating leases result in a delay in our receipt of cash, which reduces our cash balance and financial flexibility to respond to changing economic events. Our business is subject to political, market and financial risks: Ø The gaming industry can be affected by public opinion of gaming. In the event that there is a decline in public acceptance of gaming, either through unfavorable legislation affecting the introduction of gaming into emerging markets, or through legislative and regulatory changes, including tax increases in existing gaming markets, our ability to continue to sell and lease our gaming machines and operate our interactive gaming products and services in those markets and jurisdictions would be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that public opinion will continue to support legalized gaming. In addition, our social gaming efforts, including our Jackpot Party Social Casino, are currently not regulated and we cannot assure you that if regulations were to be implemented for social gaming that our revenues, profits and cash flow from such revenue sources would not significantly decline. Ø Our operating income is impacted by decreases to our selling prices, average daily revenue and interactive gaming products and services daily revenues and increases to our costs of products sold and cost of gaming operations, including higher material costs due to the fluctuating commodities markets, higher labor costs, increased freight charges reflecting escalating gas prices or increased fees to operate our social games on Facebook or mobile devices. We may experience lower operating income in the future if any of these events occurs. Ø We face risks associated with doing business in international markets related to political and economic instability, terrorist activity and related foreign currency fluctuations. Unstable governments and terrorist activity may adversely affect the number of patrons visiting casinos, which in turn may reduce demand for our products and the financial ability of our casino customers to pay outstanding obligations. Changes in regulatory enforcement, treaties and legislation may affect the international gaming market with respect to gaming regulation, taxation, tariffs and import duties and the legality of gaming in some markets. Other developments in international markets could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including for example the effect of data privacy regulations on our online business, foreign government or U.S. regulations relating to exports or imports (as occurred in fiscal 2012 and 2013 in Argentina), adverse changes in the creditworthiness of casino customers with which we have considerable receivables, and the expropriation, nationalization and restrictions on repatriation of assets or funds (as occurred in fiscal 2012 and 2013 in Argentina). Additionally, we may have increased costs in connection with complying with international laws. Ø Foreign governments can impose restrictions on currency movements that might make it costly or impossible to transfer money to the U.S. In fiscal 2012, the governmental authorities in Argentina modified the rules related to importing product and limiting the exchange of pesos into dollars and the transfer of funds from Argentina. This has been a dynamic situation and we continue to monitor it closely. Currently our legal entity in Argentina cannot directly import our gaming machines, and if the governmental authorities do not change their rules, or we are unable to continue to utilize the alternative methods to import product into Argentina and are then unable to find other alternative methods to import product into Argentina, our revenues from customers in Argentina will be lower in fiscal 2014 than in fiscal 2013. Our accounts and notes receivable, net in Argentina at June 30, 2013, was $46.3 million, which is denominated in U.S. dollars, although customers pay us in pesos at the spot exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar on date of payment. At June 30, 2013, we held approximately 28.9 million pesos, or $5.4 million, of cash and cash equivalents in our bank accounts in Argentina, down in pesos from 58.0 million pesos, or $12.8 million, at June 30, 2012. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2013, we were able to convert pesos to dollars and transferred $28.7 million to our U.S. bank accounts, although this reduced our net income due to increased foreign currency losses. If the government in Argentina decides to devalue the peso, we would record charges in our Consolidated 29 Table of Contents Statements of Income based on the amount of pesos in our bank account and our customers would be required to pay us a greater amount of pesos when paying our invoices in the future and we cannot guarantee that customers will be able to pay such higher amounts. Without any changes in the Argentine government’s current restrictions on currency transfer, we expect the amount of pesos in our Argentinian bank account to grow as we collect our Argentinian accounts and notes receivable in fiscal 2014 and beyond which would increase our exposure to any currency devaluation. Ø Compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including new regulations requiring higher standards, may increase our costs, limit our ability to utilize our current supply chain and force design changes to our products. These changes could reduce the net realizable value of our inventory, which would result in an immediate charge to our Consolidated Statements of Income. Non-compliance could negatively impact our operations and financial position as a result of fines, penalties and the cost of mandated remediation or delays to our manufacturing. Ø If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements for external use, we may suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis or be unable to properly report on our business and the results of our operations. Additionally, the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud, regardless of the adequacy of those controls. Ø Our credit facility contains financial covenants which may restrict our ability to, among other things, make certain levels of capital expenditures; incur additional debt; incur liens; change the nature of our business; merge with or acquire other companies; liquidate or dissolve; limit share repurchases; and sell, transfer, lease or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. New products may be subject to complex revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results: Ø As we introduce new products and our commercial transactions become increasingly complex, additional analysis and judgment is required to account for them and to recognize revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Transactions may include multiple element arrangements and/or software components and applicable accounting principles or regulatory product approval delays could change the timing of revenue recognition and could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. Fluctuations may occur in our revenues and related deferred revenues and reflect our continued shift toward more multiple element contracts that include systems and software. We are dependent on our employees: Ø The loss or unavailability of one or more of our executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have an adverse effect on our operations. Such losses may accelerate prior to, at or after the closing of our pending acquisition by Scientific Games. Ø Our ability to continue to develop new technologies and create innovative products depends on our ability to recruit and retain talented employees. A lack of skilled technical workers or hesitancy to join our company prior to, at or after the closing of our pending acquisition by Scientific Games could delay or negatively impact our business plans. Ø Our manufacturing facility in the United States is dependent on union employees that are represented by the IBEW under a collective bargaining agreement that was renegotiated in June 2011 and expires on June 30, 2014. While we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in negotiating a new collective bargaining agreement without any disruptions in our manufacturing. Any disruption in our manufacturing could have an adverse effect on our revenues and expenses. 30 Table of Contents We substantially completed a major upgrade to our enterprise resource planning system (“ERP”), which process presents a number of significant operational risks: Ø From time to time, it becomes necessary for us to upgrade our ERP system and other management information systems which are critical to our operational, accounting and financial functions. During fiscal 2013, we substantially completed a major upgrade to our enterprise-wide Oracle ERP system. While the upgrade is substantially complete, the implementation included system revisions, process modifications, integration with other systems, data verification, training of and adaption by our employees. This still continues and requires significant management attention and resources to support. The implementation of an upgrade of this significance carries certain risks, including the risks of inaccurate data or reporting and significant design errors that could have a negative effect on our operating results and impact our ability to manage our business. As a consequence, there is a risk that undetected deficiencies may exist currently and in the future and that they could constitute material weaknesses. Information technology failures or attacks on our computer systems and databases could have an adverse effect on our business: Ø We rely on information technology to process, transmit and store electronic information. Any failures in our computer systems or telecommunications services could affect our ability to operate our linked games or otherwise conduct business. Our computer systems and databases of business or customer information are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyber-attacks, network penetration, denial of service attacks, and similar events. While we have and will continue to implement network security measures and data protection safeguards, our servers and other computer systems are vulnerable to viruses, malicious software, hacking, break-ins or theft, data privacy or security breaches, third-party security breaches, employee error or malfeasance, and similar events. Failures in our systems or services, and unauthorized access to or tampering with our systems and databases, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. The existence of our preferred stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock: Ø Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of five million shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences that may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. Under the terms of our Merger Agreement with Scientific Games, we are not permitted to issue any shares of preferred stock without their consent. However, if the Merger Agreement terminates and the Merger does not close, (i) our board has broad power, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock, (ii) our board could use preferred stock to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control, and (iii) the existence of the preferred stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our online, social, casual and mobile products and services are part of a new and evolving industry, which presents significant uncertainty and business risks: Ø Online, social, casual and mobile gaming is a relatively new industry that continues to evolve. The success of this industry and our interactive gaming products and services will be affected by future developments in social networks, mobile platforms, regulatory developments, data privacy laws and regulations, and other factors that we are unable to predict, and are beyond our control. Also, if Facebook or mobile providers were to increase the fees that they charge us, our results would be negatively affected. Additionally, if users were to limit our ability to use their personal information, if Facebook or mobile providers were to have competitive offerings, or if Facebook or mobile providers were to alter their operating platform, our growth prospects would be impacted. We expect that we will increase our investment in these products and services as they grow. This environment can make it 31 Table of Contents difficult to plan strategically and can provide opportunities for competitors to grow revenues at our expense. Consequently, our future operating results relating to our interactive gaming products and services may be difficult to predict and we cannot provide assurance that our interactive gaming products and services will grow at the rates we expect, or be successful in the long term. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 