Risk Factors The most significant factors that make an investment in our common stock risky or speculative are discussed below. These factors may cause our operating results to vary from anticipated results or may adversely affect our operating results or the value of our common stock. Our gaming machine business is heavily regulated, and we must obtain and maintain our gaming licenses and regulatory approvals to continue to operate our business and sell our products. The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulations and taxes. The governments of the various gaming jurisdictions amend these regulations from time to time. Virtually all of these jurisdictions require licenses, permits, documentation of qualification, including evidence of financial stability, and other forms of approval for manufacturers and distributors of gaming machines and for their officers, directors, major security holders and key personnel. The gaming authorities in some jurisdictions may investigate any individual who has a material relationship with us and any security holder to determine whether the individual or security holder is acceptable to those gaming authorities. Any security holder investigated by the gaming authorities must pay the costs of the investigation. Each of our games and gaming machine hardware and software must be approved in each jurisdiction in which it is placed, and we cannot assure you that a particular game or hardware or software will be approved in any jurisdiction. Licenses, approvals or findings of suitability may be revoked, suspended or conditioned. The revocation or denial of a license in a particular jurisdiction for our games, hardware or software means that we cannot sell our products in that jurisdiction, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain licenses in other jurisdictions. 23 If we fail to seek or do not receive a necessary registration, license, approval or finding of suitability, we may be prohibited from selling our games or gaming machines for use in the jurisdiction. Some jurisdictions require gaming manufacturers to obtain government approval before engaging in some transactions, such as business combinations, reorganizations, stock offerings and repurchases. Obtaining licenses and approvals can be time consuming and costly. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits, approvals or findings of suitability in a timely manner, or at all. Similarly, we cannot assure you that our current registrations, licenses, approvals or findings of suitability will not be revoked, suspended or conditioned. Our profitability depends heavily on recurring revenue from gaming operations, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Approximately $109.8 million, or 28.3%, of our revenues for fiscal 2005, and $84.3 million, or 36.6%, of our revenues in fiscal 2004, were derived from gaming operations. In addition, for fiscal 2005, our gross margin on gaming operations was 77.0% while our gross margin on product sales was 40.0%. For fiscal 2004, our gross margin on gaming operations was 81.9%, while our gross margin on product sales was 40.1%. Therefore, our level of revenue from gaming operations has a significant effect on our profitability. Participation games are replaced by casino operators if the gaming machines do not meet and sustain revenue and net win expectations. Therefore, these gaming machines are particularly susceptible to pressure from competitors, declining popularity, changes in economic conditions and increased taxation and are at risk of replacement by the casinos, ending our recurring revenues from these machines. We cannot assure you that our participation games will continue to meet the casinos’ revenue and net win requirements. Historically, we depreciated our legacy participation gaming machines and top boxes over a two-year useful life to a small salvage value. We introduced our new Bluebird cabinet participation games in June 2004. We are depreciating the Bluebird participation gaming machines over three years with a small salvage value, and the top boxes over one year to better match the reality of actual useful lives. A material adverse impact could occur if the actual useful life of the participation gaming machines or top boxes is less than our estimate of the useful life, or if actual salvage value is less than the anticipated salvage value. If we do not effectively operate our manufacturing processes and manage our inventory, and customers’ cancel orders or we have excess inventory, we may incur charges to earnings. Our manufacturing process is impacted by our ability to: (1) procure raw materials from our suppliers on a timely basis; (2) effectively manage raw materials during the manufacturing process due to reliance on third party suppliers and contract manufacturers; (3) accurately configure orders for gaming machines to customers’ specifications; (4) maintain a balanced inventory; (5) efficiently utilize our manufacturing capacity; (6) manufacture a quality product with minimal defects and warranty issues; and (7) deliver gaming machines to our customers on time. If we are unable to fulfill customers’ orders timely or at the highest level of quality, and as a result, customers cancel orders, we may incur charges to earnings. If we have excess or obsolete inventory which we are unable to sell, we may incur charges to earnings. In fiscal 2005, we recorded $4.6 million of net inventory charges to reduce legacy inventory to net realizable value. Patent infringement claims could limit or affect our ability to market some of our gaming machines and subject us to liability. Our competitors have been granted patents covering numerous gaming machine features, bonusing techniques and related technologies. If our products use processes or other subject matter that is claimed under these existing patents, or if other companies obtain patents claiming subject matter that we use, those companies may bring infringement actions against us. We might then be forced to discontinue the affected products or be required to obtain licenses from the company holding the patent, if it is willing to give us a license, to develop, manufacture or market our products. We also might then be limited in our ability to market new products. We might also be found liable for treble damage claims relating to past use of the patented subject matter if the infringement is found to be willful. 24 Software and hardware anomalies and fraudulent manipulation of our gaming machines and associated software could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, burden our engineering and marketing resources, involve us in litigation and adversely affect our gaming licenses. Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware anomalies and fraudulent manipulation of our gaming machines and associated software. Our gaming machines and software have experienced anomalies and fraudulent manipulation in the past. Gaming machines may be replaced by casinos and other gaming machine operators if they do not perform according to expectations or may be shut down by regulators. In the event of such issues with our gaming machines and software, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other projects to correct these issues, which may delay our other projects. In addition, regulators may not approve new games, which may substantially reduce our revenues. Our games are generally subject to rigorous testing, both internally and by various gaming jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to build and maintain software-based gaming machines that are free from anomalies or manipulations and satisfy these tests. Our gaming machines have in the past and could in the future be susceptible to software anomalies and manipulation after the gaming machines or software has been widely distributed. In addition, the occurrence of anomalies in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines and software may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses, or disciplinary action. If we do not continue to introduce new games and gaming machines that achieve and maintain market acceptance, our revenues and profitability will be adversely affected, and we will not recover our development costs. Our success also depends on continually developing and successfully marketing new games and gaming machines with strong and sustained player appeal. A new game or gaming machine will be accepted by casino operators only if we can show that it is likely to produce more revenues to the operator than competitors’ products. Gaming machines can be installed in casinos on a trial basis, and only after a successful trial period are the machines purchased by the casinos. If a new product does not achieve significant market acceptance, we may not recover our development and promotion costs. We cannot assure you that the new products that we introduce will achieve any significant degree of market acceptance or that the acceptance will be sustained for any meaningful period. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current schedule of planned introductions. If we do not continually adapt to the rapid development of new technologies, we will not be able to successfully compete in our industry. The gaming machine business is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and the continuous introduction of new products using such technologies. We must continually adapt our products to incorporate new technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop products using these new technologies or that we will be able to license such technologies if owned by others. Some of our competitors have advantages over us in their ability to finance technology development and in obtaining favorable placement in casinos, which may limit our revenues. The gaming machine business is intensely competitive. Some of our competitors are large companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than ours. In addition, new competitors may enter our key markets. Obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is a competitive factor in our industry. Competitors with a larger installed base of gaming machines than ours have an advantage in retaining the most space and best positions in casinos. These competitors may also have the advantage of being able to convert their installed machines to newer models in order to maintain their share of casino floor space. In 25 addition, some of our competitors have developed and sell or otherwise provide to customers wide-area progressive systems or centralized player tracking and accounting systems which allow operators to accumulate accounting and performance data about the operation of gaming machines. We began offering proprietary wide-area progressive systems in late fiscal 2004, but do not offer a centralized player tracking and accounting system. If we do not obtain and retain licenses to use intellectual properties and licensors’ approvals of new products on a timely basis, our revenues will be adversely affected. Some of our most popular games and gaming machine features, including our MONOPOLY branded games and ticket-in, ticket-out cashless gaming functionality, are based on trademarks and other intellectual properties licensed from third parties. Our future success may depend upon our ability to obtain and retain licenses for additional popular intellectual properties. There is competition for these licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in acquiring or retaining additional intellectual property rights with significant commercial value on acceptable terms. These intellectual properties are licensed for a fixed term and generally provide for minimum guaranteed royalties and other obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or renew the intellectual properties that we currently license. We cannot assure you that we will be able to create games using the intellectual properties that will generate enough revenues for us to cover the minimum guaranteed royalties and other fixed costs. In the event that we cannot renew our existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue the games bearing the licensed marks. Our intellectual property licenses generally require that we submit new products developed under these licenses to the licensor prior to release for approval, at their sole discretion, of our use of the licensed property. Rejection or delay in approval of a product design by a licensor could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect or retain our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our revenues may be adversely affected. Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain trademark protection for the names or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright protection and patent protection of our proprietary software and other game innovations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to build and maintain goodwill in our trademarks or obtain trademark or patent protection, that any trademark, copyright or issued patent will provide competitive advantages for us or that our intellectual properties will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or proprietary information will be honored. Despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. If we do not realize the value of licensed intellectual property, licensed technology and royalty commitments, we may incur charges to earnings. We have entered into several agreements to license intellectual property including licensing technologies related to alternative solutions as part of our technology improvement plan that, as of June 30, 2005, had a total potential commitment of $116.0 million of which $18.4 million has been expensed through June 30, 2005 resulting in $97.6 million of remaining future expense. If we determine that we may not realize the value of any of the commitments, we would record an immediate charge against earnings up to the full amount of these commitments in the period in which such determination is made. We have also entered into several agreements to license intellectual property and pay royalties related to new game development, including three individual licenses which generated over 89% of our consolidated 26 revenue in fiscal 2005. If the revenue we expect to generate by these licenses were to substantially decline, we would record an immediate charge against earnings up to the full amount of these commitments in the period in which such decline in expected revenue occurred. The gaming industry is sensitive to declines in the public acceptance of gaming that may lead to the passage of laws to significantly increase gaming taxes or outlaw gaming in affected jurisdictions. The gaming industry can be affected by public opinion of gaming. In the event that there is a decline in public acceptance of gaming, either through unfavorable legislation affecting the introduction of gaming into emerging markets, or through legislative and regulatory changes, including tax increases, in existing gaming markets, our ability to continue to sell and lease our games in those markets and jurisdictions would be adversely affected. Recent tax structure changes and rate increases in two jurisdictions have made gaming in general, and specifically participation games, less profitable in those jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that public opinion will continue to support legalized gaming. We face risks associated with doing business in foreign markets related to political and economic instability and related foreign currency fluctuations. We seek to grow through increasing our presence in foreign markets. Potential political and economic instability in foreign markets may adversely affect our ability to enter into or continue to do business in these markets. Unstable governments and changes in current legislation may affect the gaming market with respect to gaming regulation, taxation, and the legality of gaming in some markets. In addition, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, tariffs and other barriers may further impede our success in foreign markets. Our business in foreign markets is subject to the risks customarily associated with such activities. As of June 30, 2005, we had $35.4 million of trade accounts and notes receivable from customers in countries outside of the United States, most of which are denominated in U.S. dollars. We do not enter into foreign exchange contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We cannot assure you that foreign markets will remain politically and economically stable enough to continue as a potential source of revenues and profit to us. The use of our rights plan or blank check preferred stock would inhibit the acquisition of WMS or have a dilutive effect on our stock. Rights plan. Under our rights plan, each share of our common stock has an accompanying right to purchase convertible preferred stock that permits each holder to purchase shares of our common stock at half price. The rights become exercisable if any person or entity who at the time of the adoption of the rights plan did not own 15% or more of our common stock subsequently acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock without approval of our board of directors. We can redeem the rights at $.01 per right, subject to specified conditions, at any time. The rights expire in April 2007. Our board of directors could use this agreement as an anti-takeover device to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. The use of our rights plan may dilute our common stock. Blank check preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of five million shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences that may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. Accordingly, our board has broad power, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors could use preferred stock to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. Our board has no current plans, agreements or commitments to issue any shares of preferred stock. The existence of the blank check preferred stock, however, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The substantial number of shares of common stock available for sale in the future could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We have 100 million authorized shares of common stock. As of September 1, 2005, 32.4 million shares were issued, including 0.7 million shares held in treasury. On that date, we also had outstanding options to 27 purchase an aggregate of 4.1 million shares of our common stock issuable at an average exercise price of $23.28 per share and outstanding warrants to purchase 0.3 million shares of our common stock issuable at an exercise price of $35.04 per share. In addition, we have granted 0.3 million shares of restricted stock and 0.1 million of performance contingent restricted units. If all of our issued and outstanding stock options, warrants, restricted stock and performance contingent restricted units were exercised as of that date, 37.2 million shares of our common stock would be outstanding. If the holders of our convertible subordinated notes converted all of the notes, 5.8 million additional shares of our common stock would be issued. If all of the notes were converted to common stock and all of the outstanding options, warrants, restricted stock and performance contingent restricted units were exercised, 57.0 million shares would still be available for issuance. Our Board of Directors has broad discretion to issue authorized but unissued shares, including discretion to issue shares in compensatory and acquisition transactions. In addition, if we seek financing through the sale of our securities, our then current stockholders may suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of our common stock. The future issuance, or even the potential issuance, of shares at a price below the then current market price may have a depressive effect on the future market price of our common stock. We are subject to general market and economic business risks. During the normal course of our business, we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest and currency rate movements, collectibility of accounts and notes receivable, and recoverability of residual values on leased assets. We constantly assess these risks and have established policies and practices designed to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. Although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurances can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future. We are dependent on certain key personnel. Our success will be dependent, to a significant extent, on the continued services of a relatively small group of executive personnel. The loss or unavailability of one or more of such executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have an adverse effect on our operations. Customer financing is becoming an increasing prevalent component of the sales process and therefore increases business risk of non-payment. We believe that customer financing terms and leasing have become increasingly important competitive factors for our business. Competitive conditions sometimes require us to grant extended payment terms on gaming machines and other gaming equipment, especially for sales in emerging markets, which delays our receipt of cash and can negatively impact our ability to enforce the Company’s rights upon default if the customer is from a foreign country. While such equipment normally collateralizes these financings, the resale value of the collateral in the event of default may be less than the amount financed. Accordingly, we have greater exposure to the financial condition of our customers than had historically been the case. Failures or delays in the continuing implementation of our Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP system, could disrupt operations and increase costs. We continue to work through several implementation phases of our company-wide ERP solution for our computer system procedures and controls; any failures, difficulties or significant delays in implementing or maintaining our computer information systems could result in material adverse consequences to our business, including disruption of operations, loss of information and unanticipated increases in costs. Sumner Redstone owns or controls 15% of our outstanding common stock, and he has been disposing of our stock and may dispose of all or a portion of his remaining stock ownership at any time, which could cause our stock price to decrease. Sumner Redstone beneficially owns 4.5 million shares, or 15%, of our common stock, as reported in a Form 4, filed by Mr. Redstone with the SEC on August 17, 2005. During June and July of 2004, Mr. Redstone 28 reported that he entered into five forward transactions under which he would sell 4.0 million shares of our common stock in multiple traunches which began settling in March 2005 and will end in October 2005. Mr. Redstone has reported that through September 1, 2005 he has sold 3.0 million shares under these forward transactions. If the balance of the remaining forward transactions are completed it will reduce his ownership to approximately 11% of our outstanding common stock by October 2005. Mr. Redstone could sell any or all of his remaining shares at any time on the open market or to a person who wishes to acquire control of WMS. Such a sale may require prior regulatory approval. We cannot assure you that any such person would agree with our strategy and business goals described in this report. Sales by Mr. Redstone of a large number of shares would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In August 2005, we executed a five-year extension through August 2010 of a voting trust agreement, which governs the voting rights of all shares of our common stock beneficially owned by Mr. Redstone. 