ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following: Gaming licenses, regulatory approvals and gaming legislation impact the ability to operate our business and sell and lease our products: Ø The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines and games and the operation of our online casino is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulations and taxes. Most of the jurisdictions in which we operate require licenses, permits, documentation of qualification, including evidence of financial stability and other forms of approval of our company and our officers, directors, major security holders and key personnel, along with our products. Licenses, approvals or findings of suitability may be revoked, suspended or conditioned. The loss of a license in one jurisdiction could trigger the loss of a license or affect our eligibility for a license in another jurisdiction. In addition, gaming authorities may levy fines against us or seize our assets if we violate gaming laws or regulations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits or approvals, that the licensing process will not result in delays or adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain key personnel, or that complying with these regulations will not increase our costs. Ø The gaming authorities in some jurisdictions may investigate companies or individuals who have a material relationship with us or our security holders to determine whether the selected individual or security holder is acceptable to those gaming authorities. Any such investigated company, individual or security holder must pay the costs of the investigation and such an investigation may be time consuming and distracting to our operations. Failure of companies, individuals or security holders to cooperate with any such investigation could negatively impact our ability to obtain or maintain our licenses. Additionally the regulatory review process and licensing requirements may preclude access to new third-party technologies if those parties either are not willing to subject themselves to review or do not meet regulatory requirements. Ø Each of our games and gaming machine hardware and software and our online casino must, when required, be approved in the jurisdictions in which it is operated, and we cannot assure you that a particular game and gaming machines, hardware, software or our online casino will be approved in any jurisdiction. Our networked gaming technology requires regulatory approval in gaming jurisdictions prior to any shipment or implementation and, although we have received approvals from some jurisdictions, we cannot assure you that we will receive the additional approvals we would need to offer the product in other gaming jurisdictions. Ø To expand into new jurisdictions, we may need to be licensed, obtain approvals of our products and/or seek licensure of our officers, directors, major security holders, key personnel or business partners. If we 20 Table of Contents fail to seek, do not receive or receive a revocation of a license in a particular jurisdiction for our games, gaming machines, hardware, software or online casino, we cannot operate, sell or place on a participation or leased basis our products in that jurisdiction. Ø Delays in, amendments to or repeals of legislation approving gaming or the expansion of gaming in jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to commence operations may adversely affect our operations. Delays in approvals of our customers’ operations or expansions of their operations may adversely affect our operations. Ø Some jurisdictions require gaming manufacturers to obtain regulatory approval before engaging in certain transactions, such as business combinations, reorganizations, borrowings, stock offerings and share repurchases. Obtaining regulatory approvals can be time consuming and costly. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary approvals or that the approval process will not result in delays or changes to our business plans. Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and current unfavorable economic conditions have impacted and could continue to negatively impact our business: Ø Existing unfavorable general economic conditions reduce disposable income of casino patrons and result in fewer patrons visiting casinos and lower amounts spent per casino visit. This decline in disposable income could result in reduced play levels on our participation gaming machines, causing our cash flows and revenues from these products to decline. Additionally, higher airfares, gasoline prices and other costs may adversely affect the number of players visiting our customers’ casinos. Current unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased liquidity in many financial markets and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. Any significant or prolonged decrease in consumer spending on leisure activities could greatly affect the casino industry, causing some or all of our customers to decrease spending or ultimately declare bankruptcy, each of which would adversely affect our business. Ø A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain adequate levels of capital to finance their ongoing operations reduces their resources available to purchase our products and services, which adversely affects our revenues. If we experience a significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products, we could incur losses and also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. Ø Furthermore, current unfavorable economic conditions have and could continue to impact the ability of our customers to make timely payments to us. In mid-fiscal 2009, we began implementing a program to provide a greater than historical amount of extended payment term financing arrangements to certain of our customers, which could increase our collection risk. We have continued this program throughout fiscal 2012 and this program will likely continue until the economy and consumer discretionary spending improves. Our bad debt expense increased by $2.8 million to $6.7 million as our total accounts and notes receivable, net in fiscal 2012 increased by $38.9 million compared to fiscal 2011. We experienced fewer customers filing for protection under the bankruptcy laws in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011; however, we recorded $3.6 million of bad debt expense in fiscal 2012 to write-down receivables following government enforcement actions at certain casinos in Mexico. We also experienced a higher level of customer refinancings in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. If customers are not able to pay us, we may incur additional provisions for bad debt related to lack of collectability of certain receivables. Ø In fiscal 2012, we reduced our global workforce by approximately 10% and incurred pre-tax charges of $9.7 million primarily for cash severance costs and other expenses. The workforce reduction and any future workforce or other expense reductions may have an adverse impact on our development activities, costs and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Ø In late fiscal 2011, we began to offer select customers operating lease agreements over 36 to 60 months, which provide for monthly payments and revenue recognition over the term of the lease in contrast to 21 Table of Contents product sales where the revenue is recognized upon shipment of the gaming machines and satisfaction of all revenue earning requirements. Entering into operating leases instead of product sales agreements reduces our revenues in the accounting period when the transaction commences. We expect the number of operating leases to increase in fiscal 2013, but cannot predict the level of customer demand for these arrangements. If customer demand for operating lease terms exceeds our expectations, the arrangements may result in a shortfall in the expected product sales revenues recognized in a specific quarter and an increase in the recurring revenue that would be recognized over future periods. Our revenue and profitability depend on our ability to continue to timely develop new technologies and high earning products that appeal to the player and are free from hardware or software anomalies and cannot be fraudulently manipulated: Ø The gaming business is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and the introduction of new products using such technologies. We must continually adapt our products to incorporate new technologies and if we cannot adapt, or do not timely adapt new technologies, our operations may be adversely impacted. Ø The success of a newly introduced technology is dependent on our customers’ acceptance of a dynamic change in the way they manage their business and such acceptance may nevertheless only build gradually over time. Delays in acceptance by our customers of new technologies have and may continue to adversely affect our operations. Ø Our success depends upon our ability to adapt our manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the demands of producing new and innovative products. Because our newer products are generally more technologically sophisticated than those we have produced in the past, we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot efficiently adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. Ø Our success also depends on continually developing and successfully marketing new games, gaming machines and our online casino with strong and sustained player appeal. A new game or gaming machine will be accepted by our customers only if we can show that it is likely to produce more revenue and net win to a casino operator or player appeal to an online casino customer than our existing products or our competitors’ products in some cases. Gaming machines can be installed in casinos on a trial basis, and only after a successful trial period are the gaming machines purchased by the casinos. Additionally, we are at risk that customers may cancel orders for products that are not performing to expectations at other casinos. If a new product does not achieve significant market acceptance, we may not recover our development, regulatory approval and promotion costs. Ø Participation gaming machines are replaced on short notice by casino operators if the gaming machines do not meet and sustain revenue and profitability expectations. Therefore, these gaming machines are particularly susceptible to pressure from competitors, declining popularity, changes in economic conditions and increased taxation and are at risk of replacement by the casinos, which would end our recurring revenues from these gaming machines unless they can be placed with another customer or repurposed. Ø Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware anomalies and fraudulent manipulation of our gaming machines and our online casino. All of our games are designed with security features to prevent fraudulent activity. However, we cannot guarantee that these features will effectively stop all fraudulent activities. If our security features do not prevent fraud, we could adversely be affected. Ø Our gaming machines have experienced anomalies and fraudulent manipulation in the past. Games and gaming machines may be replaced by casinos and other gaming machine operators if they do not perform according to expectations, or may be shut down by regulators. The occurrence of anomalies in, 22 Table of Contents or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines and our online casino may give rise to claims for lost revenues and earnings and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses, or other disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our gaming machines and our online casino, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other projects to correct these issues, which may delay our other projects. Ø In fiscal 2011 and the first half of fiscal 2012, we experienced delays in launching new products due to the new technologies we were imbedding in our participation products and as a result of not having as many new participation game themes approved, some of our older game theme performance lagged resulting in a higher level of removals of participation gaming machines, which caused a reduction in the installed base. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary approvals or that the approval process will not result in delays or changes to our business plans. Ø Our network gaming applications interface with each gaming machine operating system software that we refer to as a “game platform.” The game platform manages the software needed to operate the gaming machine. Our network gaming applications, game platforms and the related computer systems are constantly updated and revised to keep pace with the ever-increasing complexity of modern game play, technology and regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, maintain or manage the level of complexities arising from network gaming applications and gaming platforms and obtain all necessary approvals or that the approval process will not result in costly delays, lost network gaming application revenue or changes to our business plans. We are dependent on our intellectual property and trade secrets and must ensure we are licensed to use intellectual property and trade secrets owned by others: Ø Our competitors have been granted patents covering, among other items, numerous gaming machine features, bonusing techniques and related technologies. If our products use processes or other subject matter that is claimed under our competitors’ patents, or if other companies obtain patents claiming subject matter that we use, those companies may bring infringement actions against us. We might then be forced to discontinue the affected products or be required to obtain licenses from the company holding the patent, if it is willing to give us a license, in order to continue to develop, manufacture or market our products. We might also be found liable for treble damage claims relating to past use of the patented subject matter if the infringement is found to be willful. Ø Substantially all of our gaming machines and our online casino utilize trademarks, technologies and other intellectual properties licensed from third parties. Our future success may depend upon our ability to obtain, retain and/or expand licenses for popular technologies and intellectual properties in a competitive market. In the event that we cannot renew and/or expand existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue or limit our use of the games or gaming machines that use the licensed technology or intellectual property or bear the licensed marks. Ø Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain trademark protection for the names or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright protection and patent protection of our proprietary technologies, intellectual property and other game innovations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to build and maintain goodwill in our trademarks or obtain trademark or patent protection, that any trademark, copyright or issued patent will provide competitive advantages for us or that our intellectual properties will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors. Ø We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or proprietary information will be honored. Despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. 23 Table of Contents Ø We have entered into multiple agreements to license intellectual property and technologies that, as of June 30, 2012, had a net book value of $117.5 million and total potential future commitment of $73.8 million, including contingent payments. We also have other finite-lived intangible assets, including patents and trademarks, with aggregate net book value of $20.2 million as of June 30, 2012. If we determine that we may not realize the value of any of the finite-lived intangible assets, net or commitments, we would record an immediate charge against earnings up to the full amount of these net assets or commitments in the period in which such determination is made. See Note 9. “Intangible Assets” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the amount of intangible assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Note 15. “Commitments, Contingencies and Indemnifications” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on total potential future commitments. Our industry is competitive: Ø The gaming business is intensely competitive. Some of our competitors are large companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than ours. In addition, new competitors may enter our key markets. Obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is a competitive factor in our industry. Competitors with a larger installed base of gaming machines than ours have an advantage in obtaining and retaining the most space and best positions in casinos and established online casinos have the advantage of an established player network. Ø In addition, some of our competitors have developed and sell or otherwise provide to customers centralized player tracking and accounting systems, which allow casino operators to accumulate accounting and performance data about the operation of gaming machines. By not having such systems, we are at a competitive disadvantage. Ø Our profitability is somewhat dependent on our ability to successfully enter into new markets and new channels of distribution, such as networked gaming software applications and interactive gaming. We currently operate an online casino, but we cannot guarantee user acceptance, expansion of markets or profitability for our online casino. We cannot assure you that new markets or channels of distribution will become available or that our products will receive the proper regulatory approvals, be accepted by customers or casino players or will perform as well in these markets as they have in our traditional markets. Ø In certain sales of new gaming machines and placement of participation gaming machines we have offered free gaming machines and/or free conversion kits, while at the same time we continue to charge our customers for gaming machines and conversion kits, including CPU-NXT and CPU-NXT2 upgrade kits. We cannot be sure that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the number of free gaming machines and conversion kits that we are expected to offer to our customers, which would decrease the revenue we expect to receive and reduce our gross profit. Ø We have expanded our use of extended payment term financing of customer’s purchases over the last three years and expect to continue providing a higher level of extended payment term financing until the economy improves and demand from our customers for such financings abates. We believe that our competitors have also increased the amount of extended payment term financings offered to customers. As some of our competitors are larger than we are they may be able to provide a greater amount or better terms than we can and that may impact demand for our products. We began to offer operating lease agreements to customers in late fiscal 2011 and similarly, our larger competitors may be able to provide a greater amount or better terms than we can and that may impact demand for our products. In addition, both extended payment term financing and operating leases result in a delay in our receipt of cash, which reduces our cash balance and financial flexibility to respond to changing economic events. 24 Table of Contents Our business is subject to political, market and financial risks: Ø The gaming industry can be affected by public opinion of gaming. In the event that there is a decline in public acceptance of gaming, either through unfavorable legislation affecting the introduction of gaming into emerging markets, or through legislative and regulatory changes, including tax increases in existing gaming markets, our ability to continue to sell and lease our gaming machines and operate our online casino in those markets and jurisdictions would be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that public opinion will continue to support legalized gaming. Ø Our gross margins are impacted by decreases to our selling prices or our average daily revenue and increases to our costs of products sold including higher material costs due to the fluctuating commodities markets, higher labor costs and increased freight charges reflecting escalating gas prices. We may experience lower gross margins in the future if any of these events occurs. Ø We face risks associated with doing business in international markets related to political and economic instability and related foreign currency fluctuations. Unstable governments and changes in treaties and legislation may affect the international gaming market with respect to gaming regulation, taxation, tariffs and import duties and the legality of gaming in some markets. Additionally, we may have increased costs in connection with complying with international laws. Ø In fiscal 2012, the governmental authorities in Argentina modified the rules related to importing product and limiting the exchange of pesos into dollars and the transfer of funds from Argentina. This has been a dynamic situation and we continue to monitor it closely. Currently our legal entity in Argentina cannot directly import our gaming machines, and if the governmental authorities do not change their rules or we do not find an alternative method to import product into Argentina, our revenues from customers in Argentina will be lower in fiscal 2013 than in fiscal 2012. Our accounts and notes receivable, net in Argentina at June 30, 2012, was $64.9 million, which is denominated in U.S. dollars, although customers pay us in pesos at the spot exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar on date of payment. In addition, at June 30, 2012, we had approximately 58.0 million pesos, equal to approximately $12.8 million, in our Argentina bank account that we cannot immediately translate to U.S. dollars to transfer out of the country. If the government in Argentina decides to devalue the peso, we would record charges in our Consolidated Statements of Income based on the amount of pesos in our bank account and our customers would be required to pay us a greater amount of pesos when paying our invoices in the future and we cannot guarantee that customers will be able to pay such higher amounts. Without any changes in the Argentine government’s current restrictions on currency transfer, we expect the amount of pesos in our Argentinian bank account to grow as we collect our Argentinian accounts and notes receivable in fiscal 2013 and beyond which would increase our exposure to any currency devaluation. Ø Compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including new regulations requiring higher standards, may increase our costs, limit our ability to utilize our current supply chain and force design changes to our products. These changes could reduce the net realizable value of our inventory, which would result in an immediate charge to our Consolidated Statements of Income. Non-compliance could negatively impact our operations and financial position as a result of fines, penalties and the cost of mandated remediation or delays to our manufacturing. Ø If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements for external use, we may suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis or be unable to properly report on our business and the results of our operations. Additionally, the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud, regardless of the adequacy of those controls. Ø Our credit facility contains financial covenants which may restrict our ability to, among other things, make certain levels of capital expenditures; incur additional debt; incur liens; change the nature of our 25 Table of Contents business; merge with or acquire other companies; liquidate or dissolve; limit share repurchases; and sell, transfer, lease or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. New products may be subject to complex revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results: Ø As we introduce new products and our commercial transactions become increasingly complex, additional analysis and judgment is required to account for them and to recognize revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Transactions may include multiple element arrangements and/or software components and applicable accounting principles or regulatory product approval delays could change the timing of revenue recognition and could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. Fluctuations may occur in our revenues and related deferred revenues and reflect our continued shift toward more multiple element contracts that include systems and software. We are dependent on our employees: Ø The loss or unavailability of one or more of our executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have an adverse effect on our operations. Ø Our ability to continue to develop new technologies and create innovative products depends on our ability to recruit and retain talented employees. A lack of skilled technical workers could delay or negatively impact our business plans. Ø Our manufacturing facility in the United States is dependent on union employees that are represented by the IBEW under a collective bargaining agreement that was renegotiated in June 2011 and expires on June 30, 2014. While we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in negotiating a new collective bargaining agreement without any disruptions in our manufacturing. Any disruption in our manufacturing could have an adverse effect on our revenues and expenses. The existence of our preferred stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock: Ø Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of five million shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences that may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. Accordingly, our board has broad power, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors could use preferred stock to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. The existence of the preferred stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our online, social, casual and mobile products and services are part of a new and evolving industry, which presents significant uncertainty and business risks: Ø Online, social, casual and mobile gaming is a relatively new industry that continues to evolve. The success of this industry and our interactive products and services will be affected by future developments in social networks, mobile platforms, regulatory developments, data privacy laws and regulations, and other factors that we are unable to predict, and are beyond our control. We expect that we will increase our investment in these products and services as they grow and that we will incur losses during the start-up phase over the next two years. This environment can make it difficult to plan strategically and can provide opportunities for competitors to grow revenues at our expense. Consequently, our future operating results relating to our interactive products and services may be difficult to predict and we cannot provide assurance that our interactive products and services will grow at the rates we expect, or be successful in the long term. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 