ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following: Gaming licenses, regulatory approvals and gaming legislation impact our ability to operate our business and sell and lease our products: • The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulations and taxes, which are amended from time to time. Virtually all of the jurisdictions in which we operate require licenses, permits, documentation of qualification, including evidence of financial stability, and other forms of approval of our company and our officers, directors, major security holders and key personnel. Additionally, the gaming authorities in some jurisdictions may investigate any individual who has a material relationship with us and any security holder to determine whether the individual or security holder is acceptable to those gaming authorities. Any security holder investigated by the gaming authorities must pay the costs of the investigation. • Each of our games and gaming machine hardware and software must be approved in each jurisdiction in which it is placed, and we cannot assure you that a particular game or hardware or software will be approved in any jurisdiction. Licenses, approvals or findings of suitability may be revoked, suspended or conditioned. To expand into new jurisdictions, we may need to be licensed, obtain approvals of our products and/or seek licensure of our officers, directors, major security holders, key personnel or business partners. If we fail to seek, do not receive or receive a revocation of a license in a particular jurisdiction for our games, hardware or software, we cannot sell or place on a participation or leased basis our products in that jurisdiction. • Delays in, amendments to or repeals of legislation approving gaming in jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to commence operations, may adversely affect our operations. Delays in approvals of our customers’ operations may adversely affect our operations. • Some jurisdictions require gaming manufacturers to obtain government approval before engaging in some transactions, such as business combinations, reorganizations, borrowings, stock offerings and repurchases. Obtaining licenses and approvals can be time consuming and costly. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits, approvals or findings of suitability or that the approval process will not result in delays or changes to our business plans. • The gaming industry can be affected by public opinion of gaming. In the event that there is a decline in public acceptance of gaming, either through unfavorable legislation affecting the introduction of gaming into emerging markets, or through legislative and regulatory changes, including tax increases, in existing gaming markets, our ability to continue to sell and lease our gaming machines in those markets and jurisdictions would be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that public opinion will continue to support legalized gaming. Our profitability depends on our ability to keep up with technological developments and to develop new products: • The gaming machine business is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and the continuous introduction of new products using such technologies. We must continually adapt our products to incorporate new technologies. 18 Table of Contents • Our success also depends on continually developing and successfully marketing new games and gaming machines with strong and sustained player appeal. A new game or gaming machine will be accepted by casino operators only if we can show that it is likely to produce more revenues to the operator than competitors’ products. Gaming machines can be installed in casinos on a trial basis, and only after a successful trial period are the machines purchased by the casinos. If a new product does not achieve significant market acceptance, we may not recover our development and promotion costs. • Participation gaming machines are replaced by casino operators if the gaming machines do not meet and sustain revenue and profitability expectations. Therefore, these gaming machines are particularly susceptible to pressure from competitors, declining popularity, changes in economic conditions and increased taxation and are at risk of replacement by the casinos, which would end our recurring revenues from these machines. • Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware anomalies and fraudulent manipulation of our gaming machines and associated software. Our gaming machines and software have experienced anomalies and fraudulent manipulation in the past. Gaming machines may be replaced by casinos and other gaming machine operators if they do not perform according to expectations, or may be shut down by regulators. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our gaming machines and software, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other projects to correct these issues, which may delay our other projects. • Our competitors have been granted patents covering numerous gaming machine features, bonusing techniques and related technologies. If our products use processes or other subject matter that is claimed under these existing patents, or if other companies obtain patents claiming subject matter that we use, those companies may bring infringement actions against us. We might then be forced to discontinue the affected products or be required to obtain licenses from the company holding the patent, if it is willing to give us a license, to develop, manufacture or market our products. We also might then be limited in our ability to market new products. We might also be found liable for treble damage claims relating to past use of the patented subject matter if the infringement is found to be willful. • Some of our most popular games and gaming machine features, including our MONOPOLY branded games and ticket-in, ticket-out cashless gaming functionality, are based on trademarks and other intellectual properties licensed from third parties. Our future success may depend upon our ability to obtain, retain and/or expand licenses for additional popular intellectual properties in a competitive market. We are currently negotiating to renew our ticket-in, ticket-out cashless license. In the event that we cannot renew and/or expand this or other existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue the games using the licensed technology or bearing the licensed marks, or limit our use of such items. • Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain trademark protection for the names or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright protection and patent protection of our proprietary software and other game innovations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to build and maintain goodwill in our trademarks or obtain trademark or patent protection, that any trademark, copyright or issued patent will provide competitive advantages for us or that our intellectual properties will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors. • We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or proprietary information will be honored. Despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. • We cannot assure you that the new products that we introduce will achieve any significant degree of market acceptance, that the acceptance will be sustained for any meaningful period or that new technology, infringement actions or anomalies may cause casino operators to remove our gaming machines. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current schedule of planned introductions. 19 Table of Contents • In addition, the occurrence of anomalies in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines and software may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses, or disciplinary action. • We have entered into multiple agreements to license intellectual property including licensing technologies related to alternative solutions as part of our technology improvement plan that, as of June 30, 2006, had a total potential commitment of $121.3 million. If we determine that we may not realize the value of any of the commitments, we would record an immediate charge against earnings up to the full amount of these commitments that are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet in the period in which such determination is made. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, technology licensed under two separate agreements was incorporated into more than 90% of the products we sold or leased and a third license was utilized in leased units which generated over 10% of our consolidated revenues. If the revenue we expect to generate by the sale or lease of products utilizing these licenses were to substantially decline, we would record an immediate charge against earnings up to the full amount of these commitments in the period in which such decline in expected revenue occurred. Our business is subject to other economic, market, and regulatory risks: • The gaming machine business is intensely competitive. Some of our competitors are large companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than ours. In addition, new competitors may enter our key markets. Obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is a competitive factor in our industry. Competitors with a larger installed base of gaming machines than ours have an advantage in retaining the most space and best positions in casinos. These competitors may also have the advantage of being able to convert their installed machines to newer models in order to maintain their share of casino floor space. In addition, some of our competitors have developed and sell or otherwise provide to customers centralized player tracking and accounting systems which allow operators to accumulate accounting and performance data about the operation of gaming machines. We do not offer a centralized player tracking and accounting system and that has put us at a competitive disadvantage. • We face risks associated with doing business in international markets related to political and economic instability and related foreign currency fluctuations. Unstable governments and changes in current legislation may affect the gaming market with respect to gaming regulation, taxation, and the legality of gaming in some markets, as we experienced with the Russian market in fiscal 2006. • The loss or unavailability of one or more of our executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have an adverse effect on our operations. • Customer financing is becoming an increasing prevalent component of the sales process and therefore increases business risk of non-payment, especially in emerging markets. In some instances, our gaming machines are installed in casinos on a trial basis, and only after a successful trial period are the machines purchased by the customers. These customer financing arrangements delay our receipt of cash and can negatively impact our ability to enforce our rights upon default if the customer is from a foreign country. • Our competitors have begun to provide free game theme conversions to customers in connection with product sales. While we intend to continue to charge our customers for game theme conversions including CPU-NXT upgrade kits, we cannot be sure that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the number of free game theme conversions we offer to our customers, which would decrease the revenue we expect to receive for game theme conversions. • If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we may suffer harm to our 20 Table of Contents reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, or be unable to properly report on our business and the results of our operations. Additionally, the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud, regardless of the adequacy of those controls. The use of our rights plan or blank check preferred stock would inhibit the acquisition of WMS or have a dilutive effect on our stock. • Rights plan. Under our rights plan, each share of our common stock has an accompanying right to purchase convertible preferred stock that permits each holder to purchase shares of our common stock at half price. The rights become exercisable if any person or entity who at the time of the adoption of the rights plan did not own 15% or more of our common stock subsequently acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock without approval of our board of directors. We can redeem the rights at $.01 per right, subject to specified conditions, at any time. The rights expire in November 2007. Our board of directors could use this agreement as an anti-takeover device to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. The use of our rights plan may dilute our common stock. • Blank check preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of five million shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences that may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. Accordingly, our board has broad power, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors could use preferred stock to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. Our board has no current plans, agreements or commitments to issue any shares of preferred stock. The existence of the blank check preferred stock, however, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sumner Redstone owns or controls 11% of our outstanding common stock, and may dispose of all or a portion of his remaining stock ownership at any time, which could cause our stock price to decrease. • Sumner Redstone beneficially owns 3,483,900 shares, or 11%, of our common stock, as reported in amendment no. 51 to a Form 13D filed with the SEC on November 7, 2005. Mr. Redstone could sell any or all of his shares at any time on the open market or to a person who wishes to acquire control of us. Such a sale may require prior regulatory approval. We cannot assure you that any such person would agree with our strategy and business goals described in this Report. Sales by Mr. Redstone of a large number of shares would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In August 2005, we executed a five-year extension through August 2010 of a voting trust agreement, which governs the voting rights of all shares of our common stock beneficially owned by Mr. Redstone. Risks that impact our customers may impact us if fewer players visit our customers’ facilities or if our customers are unable to devote resources to purchasing and leasing our products including: • Global geopolitical events such as terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility. • Natural disasters such as major fires, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes. • Adverse economic and market conditions in gaming markets, including recession, economic slowdown, higher airfares and higher energy and gasoline prices. • Concerns about SARS, Avian flu or other influenza or contagious illnesses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 