ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We urge you to carefully review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following: Gaming licenses, regulatory approvals and gaming legislation impact the ability to operate our business and sell and lease our products: Ø The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulations and taxes. Most of the jurisdictions in which we operate require licenses, permits, documentation of qualification, including evidence of financial stability and other forms of approval of our company and our officers, directors, major security holders and key personnel, along with our products. Licenses, approvals or findings of suitability may be revoked, suspended or conditioned. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits or approvals, that the licensing process will not result in delays or adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain key personnel, or that complying with these regulations will not increase our costs. Ø The gaming authorities in some jurisdictions may investigate companies or individuals who have a material relationship with us or our security holders to determine whether the selected individual or security holder is acceptable to those gaming authorities. While any such investigated company, individual or security holder must pay the costs of the investigation, such an investigation may be time consuming and distracting to our operations. Failure of companies, individuals or security holders to cooperate with any such investigation could negatively impact our ability to obtain or maintain our licenses. Additionally the regulatory review process and licensing requirements may preclude access to new third-party technologies if those parties either are not willing to subject themselves to review or do not meet regulatory requirements. Ø Each of our games and gaming machine hardware and software must be approved in each jurisdiction in which it is placed, and we cannot assure you that a particular game and gaming machines, hardware or software will be approved in any jurisdiction. Our networked gaming technology will require regulatory approval in gaming jurisdictions prior to any shipment or implementation and we cannot assure you that we will receive these approvals. 19 Table of Contents Ø To expand into new jurisdictions, we may need to be licensed, obtain approvals of our products and/or seek licensure of our officers, directors, major security holders, key personnel or business partners. If we fail to seek, do not receive or receive a revocation of a license in a particular jurisdiction for our games and gaming machines, hardware or software, we cannot sell or place on a participation or leased basis our products in that jurisdiction. Ø Delays in, amendments to or repeals of legislation approving gaming or the expansion of gaming in jurisdictions in which we operate or plan to commence operations, may adversely affect our operations. Delays in approvals of our customers’ operations or expansions of their operations may adversely affect our operations. Ø Some jurisdictions require gaming manufacturers to obtain regulatory approval before engaging in certain transactions, such as a business combination, reorganizations, borrowings, stock offerings and share repurchases. Obtaining regulatory approvals can be time consuming and costly. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary approvals or that the approval process will not result in delays or changes to our business plans. Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and current unfavorable economic conditions have impacted and could continue to negatively impact the play levels of our participation games, new unit sales demand and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from our customers: Ø Existing unfavorable general economic conditions reduce disposable income of casino patrons and result in fewer patrons visiting casinos. This decline in disposable income could result in reduced play levels on our participation games, causing our cash flows and revenues from a large share of our recurring revenue products to decline. Additionally, higher airfares, gasoline prices and other costs may adversely affect the number of players visiting our customers’ casinos. Current unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased liquidity in many financial markets and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. Any significant or prolonged decrease in consumer spending on leisure activities could greatly affect the casino industry, causing some or all of our customers to decrease spending or ultimately declare bankruptcy, each of which would adversely affect our business. Ø A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain adequate levels of capital to finance their ongoing operations reduces their resources available to purchase our products and services, which adversely affects our revenues. If we experience a significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products, we could incur losses and also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. Ø Furthermore, current unfavorable economic conditions have and could continue to impact the ability of our customers to make timely payments to us. In mid-fiscal 2009, we began implementing a program to provide a greater than historical amount of extended payment term financing arrangements to certain of our customers which could increase our collection risk and this program continued throughout fiscal 2010 and will likely continue until the economy and consumer discretionary spending improves. We experienced a greater number of customers filing for protection under the bankruptcy laws in fiscal 2009 than in previous years and our bad debt expense increased to $7.1 million. Our experience in fiscal 2010 improved and due to fewer new bankruptcy filings, our bad debt expense declined to $3.1 million. If customers are not able to pay us, we may incur additional provisions for bad debt related to lack of collectability of certain receivables. 20 Table of Contents Our revenue and profitability depend on our ability to continue to develop, in a timely basis, new technologies and high earning products that appeal to the player and are free from hardware or software anomalies and cannot be fraudulently manipulated: Ø The gaming machine business is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and the introduction of new products using such technologies. We must continually adapt our products to incorporate new technologies and if we cannot adapt, or do not timely adapt new technologies, our operations may be adversely impacted. Ø The success of a newly introduced technology, such as networked gaming, is dependent on our casino customers’ acceptance of a dynamic change in the way they manage their casino floors. While we have designed our WAGE-NET® networked gaming system to support our customers’ existing investment in our Bluebird and Bluebird2 products, such acceptance may nevertheless only build gradually over time. Delays in acceptance by our customers of new technologies may adversely affect our operations. Ø Our success depends upon our ability to adapt our manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the demands of producing new and innovative products. Because our newer products are generally more technologically sophisticated than those we have produced in the past, we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot efficiently adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. Ø Our success also depends on continually developing and successfully marketing new games and gaming machines with strong and sustained player appeal. A new game or gaming machine will be accepted by casino operators only if we can show that it is likely to produce more revenue and net win to the casino operator than our existing products or our competitors’ products in some cases. Gaming machines can be installed in casinos on a trial basis, and only after a successful trial period are the gaming machines purchased by the casinos. Additionally, we are at risk that customers may cancel orders for products that are not performing to expectations at other casinos. If a new product does not achieve significant market acceptance, we may not recover our development, regulatory approval and promotion costs. Ø Participation gaming machines are replaced on short notice by casino operators if the gaming machines do not meet and sustain revenue and profitability expectations. Therefore, these gaming machines are particularly susceptible to pressure from competitors, declining popularity, changes in economic conditions and increased taxation and are at risk of replacement by the casinos, which would end our recurring revenues from these gaming machines unless they can be placed with another customer or repurposed. Ø Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware anomalies and fraudulent manipulation of our gaming machines. All of our games are designed with security features to prevent fraudulent activity. However, we cannot guarantee that these features will effectively stop all fraudulent activities. If our security features do not prevent fraud, we could adversely be affected. Ø Our gaming machines have experienced anomalies and fraudulent manipulation in the past. Games and gaming machines may be replaced by casinos and other gaming machine operators if they do not perform according to expectations, or may be shut down by regulators. The occurrence of anomalies in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses, or disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our gaming machines, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other projects to correct these issues, which may delay our other projects. 21 Table of Contents We are dependent on our intellectual property and trade secrets and must ensure we are licensed to use intellectual property and trade secrets owned by others: Ø Our competitors have been granted patents covering, among other items, numerous gaming machine features, bonusing techniques and related technologies. If our products use processes or other subject matter that is claimed under our competitors’ patents, or if other companies obtain patents claiming subject matter that we use, those companies may bring infringement actions against us. We might then be forced to discontinue the affected products or be required to obtain licenses from the company holding the patent, if it is willing to give us a license, in order to continue to develop, manufacture or market our products. We might also be found liable for treble damage claims relating to past use of the patented subject matter if the infringement is found to be willful. Ø Substantially all of our gaming machines utilize trademarks and other intellectual properties licensed from third parties. Our future success may depend upon our ability to obtain, retain and/or expand licenses for popular intellectual properties in a competitive market. In the event that we cannot renew and/or expand existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue or limit our use of the games or gaming machines that use the licensed technology or bear the licensed marks. Ø Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain trademark protection for the names or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright protection and patent protection of our proprietary technologies, intellectual property and other game innovations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to build and maintain goodwill in our trademarks or obtain trademark or patent protection, that any trademark, copyright or issued patent will provide competitive advantages for us or that our intellectual properties will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors. Ø We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or proprietary information will be honored. Despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. Ø We have entered into multiple agreements to license intellectual property and technologies that, as of June 30, 2010, had a net book value of $68.2 million and total potential future commitment of $97.6 million, including contingent payments. We also have other finite lived intangible assets, including patents, and trademarks, with aggregate net book value of $23.3 million as of June 30, 2010. If we determine that we may not realize the value of any of the finite lived intangible net assets or commitments, we would record an immediate charge against earnings up to the full amount of these net assets or commitments in the period in which such determination is made. See Note 6. “Intangible Assets” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the amount of intellectual property and technologies recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Note 12. “Commitments, Contingencies and Indemnifications” to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on total potential future commitments. Our industry is competitive: Ø The gaming machine business is intensely competitive. Some of our competitors are large companies with greater financial, marketing and product development resources than ours. In addition, new competitors may enter our key markets. Obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is a competitive factor in our industry. Competitors with a larger installed base of gaming machines than ours have an advantage in obtaining and retaining the most space and best positions in casinos. Ø In addition, some of our competitors have developed and sell or otherwise provide to customers centralized player tracking and accounting systems, which allow casino operators to accumulate accounting and performance data about the operation of gaming machines. While, with the acquisition 22 Table of Contents of SiP, we can now offer a centralized player tracking and accounting system, we anticipate SiP’s systems will only be used in small international casinos. By not having such a system for large casinos, we are at a competitive disadvantage. Ø Our profitability is somewhat dependent on our ability to successfully enter into new markets, such as Class II, Mexico and New South Wales, Australia and new channels of distribution, such as networked gaming software applications and online gaming. We cannot assure you that our products will receive the proper regulatory approvals, be accepted by customers or casino players or will perform as well in these markets as they have in our traditional markets. Our business is subject to political, market and financial risks: Ø The gaming industry can be affected by public opinion of gaming. In the event that there is a decline in public acceptance of gaming, either through unfavorable legislation affecting the introduction of gaming into emerging markets, or through legislative and regulatory changes, including tax increases in existing gaming markets, our ability to continue to sell and lease our gaming machines in those markets and jurisdictions would be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that public opinion will continue to support legalized gaming. Ø Our gross margins are impacted by decreases to our selling prices or our average daily revenue in our gaming operations business and increases to our costs of products sold including higher material costs due to the fluctuating commodities markets, higher labor costs and increased freight charges reflecting escalating gas prices. We may experience lower gross margins in the future if any of these events occurs. Ø We face risks associated with doing business in international markets related to political and economic instability and related foreign currency fluctuations. Unstable governments and changes in treaties and legislation may affect the international gaming market with respect to gaming regulation, taxation, tariffs and import duties and the legality of gaming in some markets, as we experienced with the decline in the Russian market in fiscal 2006. Additionally, we may have increased costs in connection with complying with international laws. Ø Compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including new regulations requiring higher standards, may increase our costs, limit our ability to utilize our current supply chain and force design changes to our products. These changes could reduce the net realizable value of our inventory, which would result in an immediate charge to our Consolidated Income Statements. Non-compliance could negatively impact our operations and financial position as a result of fines, penalties and the cost of mandated remediation or delays to our manufacturing. Ø In certain sales of new gaming machines and placement of participation gaming machines we have offered free gaming machines and/or free conversion kits, while at the same time we continue to charge our customers for gaming machines and conversion kits, including CPU-NXT and CPU-NXT2 upgrade kits. We cannot be sure that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the number of free gaming machines and conversion kits, we are expected to offer to our customers, which would decrease the revenue we expect to receive and reduce our gross profit. Ø If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we may suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis or be unable to properly report on our business and the results of our operations. Additionally, the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud, regardless of the adequacy of those controls. Ø Our credit facility contains financial covenants which may restrict our ability to, among other things, make certain levels of capital expenditures; incur additional debt; incur liens; change the nature of our business; merge with or acquire other companies, liquidate or dissolve; limit share repurchases; and sell, transfer, lease or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. 23 Table of Contents New products, such as networked gaming, may be subject to complex revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results: Ø As we introduce new products and our commercial transactions become increasingly complex, additional analysis and judgment is required to account for them and to recognize revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Transactions may include multiple element arrangements and/or software components and applicable accounting principles or regulatory product approval delays could change the timing of revenue recognition and could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. Fluctuations may occur in our revenues and related deferred revenues and reflect our continued shift toward more multiple element contracts that include systems and software. We are dependent on our employees: Ø The loss or unavailability of one or more of our executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key employees in the future could have an adverse effect on our operations. Ø Our ability to continue to develop new technologies and create innovative products depends on our ability to recruit and retain talented employees. A lack of skilled technical workers could delay or negatively impact our business plans. Ø Our manufacturing facility in the United States is dependent on union employees that are represented by the IBEW under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on June 30, 2011. While we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory we cannot predict whether we will be successful in negotiating a new collective bargaining agreement without any disruptions in our manufacturing. Any disruption in our manufacturing could have an adverse effect on our revenues and expenses. The existence of our preferred stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Ø Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of five million shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences that may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. Accordingly, our board has broad power, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors could use preferred stock to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. Our board has no current plans, agreements or commitments to issue any shares of preferred stock. The existence of the preferred stock, however, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 