ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Macroeconomic conditions have adversely impacted our business and results of operations and may continue to do so. The retail sector is affected by macroeconomic factors, including changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. Furthermore, because our customer traffic and sales volume are largely derived from the volume of consumer traffic in the malls in which we operate, we are adversely affected by general declines in mall traffic. Since the slowdown that began in 2008, the overall economy, financial markets and the related reduction in consumer confidence in the economy have negatively affected results of operations throughout large segments of our industry, including our segment. Accordingly, macroeconomic conditions have adversely affected and continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Continued weakness in or a further worsening of the economy generally or in a number of our markets could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations, cause us to slow our re-modeling of existing locations or cause us to increase store closings. Our continued growth will depend on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores. Our continued growth depends on our ability to open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. Opening new stores is dependent on a variety of factors including our ability to: •Identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; •Negotiate acceptable lease terms; •Hire, train and retain competent store personnel; •Maintain a proportion of new stores to mature stores that does not harm existing sales or profitability; •Foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying an increasing volume of merchandise; •Manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; and •Expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth. During fiscal 2011, we do not expect to open any new stores. As the economy improves, we intend to open new stores in future years and to remodel many of our existing stores as their leases come up for renewal. Continued expansion could place demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. As we open more stores, our resources may come under greater strain and may prove to be inadequate. If we are unable to open new stores or remodel our existing stores as planned, or if our new stores are unsuccessful, it could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Even if we are able to open new stores, some of our newly opened stores may not be commercially successful, possibly resulting in their closure at a significant cost to us or a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2010, we closed eight stores and, to date, during fiscal 2011, we closed two stores and expect to close another two stores, in the normal course of business. Our expansion into new markets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal 2011, we do not expect to open any new stores and during fiscal 2010 we opened four new stores. We may open new stores in areas of the United States in which we currently have few or no stores. The expansion into new markets may present competitive, merchandising and administrative challenges that are different from those currently encountered in our existing markets. Any of these challenges could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 10 Table of Contents operations. To the extent our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. Our ability to attract new customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls in which we are located. All but a few of our existing stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived in large part from the volume of consumer traffic in these malls. In addition, traffic in some of the malls in which we have stores has been adversely affected by store closures and bankruptcies by other tenants, including anchor or other large tenants. We cannot control vacancy rates in the malls in which we have stores, continued popularity of malls as shopping destinations, the solvency of landlords and the level of maintenance and upkeep that they perform or improvements that they make at the malls, development of new shopping malls or the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls. A decrease in shopping mall traffic is likely to adversely affect our results of operations. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by many factors that we cannot control. Our quarterly results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal 2008, our quarterly comparable sales at Cache stores have ranged from an increase of 5% to a decrease of 23%. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: •General economic conditions, general mall traffic and consumer spending patterns; •Fashion trends; •Calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; •The effectiveness of our inventory management; •Changes in our merchandise mix; •The timing of promotional events; •Weather conditions; and •Actions of competitors or events that affect other mall tenants. Our success depends in part on the efforts of our management team. Our success in managing our business and implementing our business and growth strategies depends on the abilities and experience of our management team. If we were to lose the services of one or more members of this team, and in particular the services of Thomas Reinckens, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner. This in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturers may be unable to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner or meet our quality standards, which could result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. We direct source a large portion of our product directly from unaffiliated third party manufacturers. During fiscal 2010, we direct-sourced approximately 48% of the dollar volume of our merchandise. We cannot guarantee that direct-sourcing will continue to result in cost savings. In addition, we may not be able to effectively manage and cultivate direct relationships with manufacturers, which could result in additional costs and manufacturing delays. Furthermore, similar to 11 Table of Contents most other specialty retailers, we have short selling seasons for much of our inventory. Factors outside of our control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or quality problems, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a relatively small number of domestic vendors for a portion of our product, and our success depends in part on maintaining good relationships with these vendors. During fiscal 2010, Cache purchased approximately 52% of the dollar volume of its product directly from third party vendors or agents of which five vendors accounted for 23%. The terms of our relationships with our vendors generally are not contractual and do not assure adequate supply or pricing on a long-term basis. If one or more of these vendors ceased to sell to us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, we may be unable to obtain merchandise in a timely manner, in the desired styles, fabrics or colors, or at the prices and volumes we wish to purchase. This could hurt our ability to respond to changing fashion trends and thus our sales and profitability. In addition, the continued increase in our direct-sourcing of merchandise from international vendors could cause our existing domestic vendors to reduce or eliminate their sales to us. Substantially all of the materials used to manufacture our merchandise are produced in foreign facilities. This subjects us to the risks of international trade and other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets. We and substantially all of our vendors utilize overseas production facilities. The failure of foreign manufacturers to ship materials or products to us in a timely manner could result in our stores lacking needed inventory. Any event causing a disruption of imports, including financial or political instability, currency fluctuations, terrorism or heightened security, trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas or both, political or military conflict involving the United States, or the migration of manufacturers, could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. These adverse impacts may include an increased cost to us, reductions in the supply of merchandise or delays in our manufacturing lead time. We rely on our manufacturers to use acceptable ethical business practices, and if they fail to do so, the Cache brand name could suffer reputational harm and our sales could decline or our inventory supply could be interrupted. We do not control our manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, our reputation could be damaged and the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted. Either of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. We rely on third parties to distribute our merchandise. If these third parties do not adequately perform this function, our business would be disrupted. The efficient operation of our business depends on the ability of the Company and its vendors to ship merchandise through third party carriers, such as United Parcel Service, directly to our individual stores. These carriers typically employ personnel represented by labor unions and have experienced labor difficulties in the past. Due to our reliance on these parties for our shipments, interruptions in shipments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in fuel prices may also increase our shipping costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents The raw materials used to manufacture our products and our distribution and labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility, which could result in increased costs. The raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, weather, supply conditions, regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in labor costs, especially in China, as well as a shortage of labor in certain areas of China, may also impact our sourcing costs. In addition, our transportation costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, distribution services and labor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our Cache brand is associated with all of our merchandise, our success depends heavily on the value associated with our brand. If the value associated with our brand were to diminish, our sales could decrease, causing losses or lower profits. Our success depends on our Cache brand and its value. The Cache brand could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. There can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may be unable to successfully resolve those types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Any material disruption of our information systems could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our information systems integrate all major aspects of our business, including merchandise planning, purchasing, inventory control, distribution, sales and finance. Our POS system, which uses a wide area network allows us to add various functionalities, including the ability to process debit card transactions, centralize credit authorizations, enhance labor scheduling, centralize our customer database, manage our customer loyalty program, speed up customer transaction time and analyze real-time sales data. We are dependent on these information systems for the efficient operation of our business, including our web-site, and to facilitate the enhancement of our marketing efforts. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer "hackers" or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by any failure on our part to successfully maintain or perform additional upgrades to our systems, could cause information to be lost or delay our ability to process and make use of that information in our business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if future changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our current information systems prove to be inadequate to support our growth, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our marketing efforts rely upon the effective use of customer information. Restrictions on the availability or use of customer information could adversely affect our marketing initiatives, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We use customer information to market to our customers. Any limitations imposed on the use of such consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activity. In addition, to the extent our security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation, which could expose us to liability and cause damage to our reputation or brand. We are subject to numerous regulations that could adversely affect our operations. Changes in such regulations could impact the operation of our business through delayed shipments of our goods, fines or penalties that could affect our profitability. We are subject to customs, truth-in-advertising, truth-in-lending and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise, the use of proprietary credit cards and the operation of retail stores and distribution facilities. Although we undertake to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by our employees, importers, buying agents, manufacturers or distributors, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to ever-changing fashion trends and customer demands. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Our success depends in large part on our ability to anticipate the fashion tastes of our customers, to respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into fashionable merchandise on a timely basis. If we are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, our sales may decline and we may be faced with excess inventories. If this occurs, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory. This could also cause us to miss opportunities. Both of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we misjudge fashion tastes and our customers come to believe that we are no longer able to offer fashions that appeal to them, our brand image may suffer. We may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. The women's apparel market is highly competitive, fragmented and characterized by low barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including traditional department stores, national and local specialty retail stores, internet-based retailers and mail order retailers. Many of our competitors, particularly traditional department stores and national specialty retail stores, are larger and have greater resources to expend on marketing and advertising campaigns. In addition, many of these competitors are already established in markets that we have not yet penetrated and have greater name recognition in general. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in competing against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors or entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of macroeconomic conditions, a substantial number of retailers have increased the frequency and duration of their discount sales and other promotions and have increased the level of merchandise discounts. This has resulted and is expected to continue to result in intense 14 Table of Contents competition. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive, we have had to increase our use of discount sales, which has reduced our gross margins. Our sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis and are sensitive to economic conditions, consumer spending patterns and other events and conditions. Our net sales and net income are generally highest each year during our fourth fiscal quarter (October, November and December) and lowest in our third fiscal quarter (July, August and September). Sales during any period cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our annual results. Any significant decrease in sales during the fourth quarter in a given year would hurt our profitability. As a result of macroeconomic conditions, we experienced a significant decrease in sales and profitability during fiscal 2010. Our business is also sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions and consumer spending patterns, as discussed in the other Risk Factors contained herein. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the timing of holidays and other local, regional, national or international events and conditions, including energy prices, climatological events such as hurricanes, strikes and other business disruptions, or the effects of war, terrorism or the threat of either of these events. If new legislation restricting the importation or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad is enacted, our business could be adversely affected. Legislation that would restrict the importation or increase the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad has been periodically introduced in Congress. The enactment of new legislation or international trade regulation, or executive action affecting international textile or trade agreements, could adversely affect our business. International trade agreements that can provide for tariffs and/or quotas can increase the cost and limit the amount of product that can be imported. Our share price has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. Between December 28, 2008 and January 1, 2011 (our fiscal years 2009 and 2010), the market price of our common stock has ranged from $1.43 to $7.25 per share. The stock market has, from time to time and especially since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors, including: •Periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or other companies in the retail industry; •A shortfall in net sales or net income from that expected in securities analysts' estimates or from that expected by investors; •Changes in our liquidity and/or capital resources; •The timing of new store openings and net sales contributed by new stores; •Material announcements by or developments affecting us or our competitors; •Public sales or repurchases of a substantial number of common shares and •Adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. 15 Table of Contents In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their shares have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and resources, thus harming our business. Provisions of our governing documents and Florida law could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in our control, and this may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or deny our stockholders a chance to realize a premium on their shares. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions, including those listed below, that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders: •our board of directors has the authority to issue common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without further stockholder approval; and •there are limitations on who can call special meetings of stockholders. In addition, provisions of Florida law and our stock option plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or unsolicited acquisition proposals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 