ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to ever-changing fashion trends and customer demands. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Our success depends in large part on our ability to anticipate the fashion tastes of our customers, to respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into fashionable merchandise on a timely basis. If we are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, our sales may decline and we may be faced with excess inventories. If this occurs, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory. This could also cause us to miss opportunities. Both of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we miscalculate fashion tastes and our customers come to believe that we are no longer able to offer fashions that appeal to them, our brand image may suffer. Our growth will depend on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores. This may strain our ability to manage our business. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. Opening new stores is dependant on a variety of factors including our ability to: · Identify suitable markets and sites for store locations, · Negotiate acceptable lease terms, · Hire, train and retain competent store personnel, · Maintain a proportion of new stores to mature stores that does not harm existing sales, · Foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying an increasing volume of merchandise, · Manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores in a timely basis and · Expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth. 7 We opened 24 new stores in fiscal 2003, 40 new stores in fiscal 2004 and 19 new stores during fiscal 2005. Additionally, we plan to open approximately 25 new stores during fiscal 2006 and approximately 30 new stores in fiscal 2007. We intend to continue to open a significant number of new stores in future years and to remodel many of our existing stores as their leases come up for renewal. Our proposed expansion will place demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. As we open more stores, our resources may come under greater strain and may prove to be inadequate. If we are unable to open new stores or remodel our existing stores as planned, or if our new stores are unsuccessful, it could have a negative impact on our financial performance. In addition, even if we are able to open new stores as planned, some of our newly opened stores may not be commercially successful, possibly resulting in their closure at a significant cost to us or a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, some of our new stores will be opened in areas of the United States in which we currently have few or no stores. The expansion into new markets may present competitive, merchandising and administrative challenges that are different from those currently encountered in our existing markets. Any of these challenges could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results in operations. To the extent our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. We recently made changes to our business strategy that, if not successful, could hurt our profitability. We have embarked on a number of strategic initiatives intended to improve our business and profitability. These initiatives include hiring new members of senior management, significantly increasing our advertising and promotional activities, transitioning to exclusively Cache and Lillie Rubin branded lines of apparel, increasing the number of store openings, remodeling existing stores and reducing the number of items carried in our stores and vendors from which we source. These initiatives have costs associated with them, and we cannot assure you that they ultimately will prove successful or result in an increase to our sales or profitability. Fluctuations in comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations could cause the price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our quarterly results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal 2000, our quarterly comparable store sales have ranged from an increase of 13% to a decrease of 5%. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase comparable store sales in the future over any given period. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: · Fashion trends, · Calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods, · The effectiveness of our inventory management, · Changes in our merchandise mix, · The timing of promotional events, · Weather conditions, · Changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns and · Actions of competitors or mall anchor tenants. If our future comparable store sales fail to meet the expectations of research analysts, then the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. 8 Our success depends in part on the efforts of our management team, several of whom are relatively new to our company. Our success in implementing our business and growth strategies depends on the abilities and experience of our management team. If we were to lose the services of one or more members of this team, and in particular the services of Brian Woolf, our Chief Executive Officer, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement on a timely basis. This in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, some members of our management team recently joined us and have been working together for a relatively short amount of time. It is possible that we will be unable to integrate the new members of our management to effectively and efficiently run our business. If we are unable to do so, it could frustrate the execution of our business strategy and hurt our profitability. We may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. The women’s apparel market is highly competitive, fragmented and characterized by low barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including traditional department stores, national and local specialty retail stores, internet-based retailers and mail order retailers. Many of our competitors, particularly traditional department stores and national specialty retail stores, are larger and have greater resources to expend on marketing and advertising campaigns. In addition, may of these competitors are already established in markets that we have not yet penetrated and have greater name recognition in general. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in competing against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served our competitors or entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis and are sensitive to economic conditions and consumer spending patterns, leaving our operating results particularly susceptible to changes in shopping patterns. Our net sales and net income are generally highest each year during our fourth fiscal quarter (October, November, and December) and lowest in our third fiscal quarter (July, August, and September). Sales during any period cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our annual results. Any significant decrease in sales during the fourth quarter in a given year would hurt our profitability. Our business is also sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions and consumer spending patterns. Our growth, sales and profitability may be adversely affected by unfavorable local, regional, national or international economic conditions, including the effects of war, terrorism or the threat of these events. We rely on a relatively small number of vendors, and our success depends on maintaining good relationships with these vendors to source our products. For fiscal 2005, we purchased approximately 37% of our merchandise from our top five vendors, with approximately 21% being purchased from one vendor. The terms of our relationships with our vendors generally are not contractual and do not assure adequate supply or pricing on a long-term basis. If one or more of these vendors ceased to sell to us or significantly altered the terms of our relationship, we may be unable to obtain merchandise in a timely manner, in the desired styles, fabrics or colors, or at the prices and volumes we need. This could hurt our sales and our ability to respond to changing fashion trends. In addition, we have been reducing the number of vendors with which we do business and anticipate continuing this process. As we continue to do so, the risks associated with a vendor ceasing to sell to us may increase. 9 Some of our merchandise purchased from domestic vendors is produced in foreign facilities. This subjects us to the risks of international trade. Many of our domestic vendors utilize overseas production facilities. To the extent that our domestic vendors rely on overseas sources for a significant portion of their materials or products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including financial or political instability or trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas or both, could negatively affect our business. These adverse impacts may include an increased cost to us, reductions in the supply of merchandise or delays in our manufacturing lead time. We rely on third parties to distribute our merchandise. If these third parties do not adequately perform this function, our business would be disrupted. The efficient operation of our business depends on the ability of our vendors to ship merchandise through third party carriers, such as United Parcel Service, directly to our individual stores. These carriers typically employ personnel represented by labor unions and have experienced labor difficulties in the past. Due to our reliance on these parties for our shipments, interruptions in the ability of our vendors to ship our merchandise or the ability of carriers to fulfill the distribution of merchandise to our stores could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract new customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls in which we are located. All but a few of our existing stores are located in shopping malls. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls, or the success of individual shopping malls. A significant decrease in shopping mall traffic would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. There can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may be unable to successfully resolve those types of conflicts to our satisfaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 Executive Officers, Directors and Key Employees The following table sets forth information concerning our executive officers, directors and key employees: Name Age Position Executive Officers and Directors Brian Woolf 57 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board Thomas E. Reinckens 52 President, Chief Operating Officer Margaret Feeney 48 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Arthur S. Mintz 60 Director Andrew M. Saul 59 Director Morton J. Schrader 74 Director Gene G. Gage 58 Director Other Key Employees Victor Coster 48 Treasurer and Secretary Lisa Decker 44 Vice President, Marketing Clifford Gray 50 Vice President, Construction Joanne Marselle 45 Vice President, Planning and Distribution Caryl Paez 45 Director, Information Technologies Executive Officers and Directors Brian Woolf has served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board since October 2000. From March 1999 to October 2000, Mr. Woolf served as Vice President and General Merchandise Manager for The Limited. From 1995 to March 1999, Mr. Woolf served as Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager for Caldor. Mr. Woolf has held various management positions within the retail industry over the last 30 years. Thomas E. Reinckens has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since October 2000. Mr. Reinckens joined our company in February 1987 and has held various positions throughout his tenure, most recently serving as Chief Financial Officer from November 1989 to October 2000 and Executive Vice President from September 1995 to October 2000. Mr. Reinckens has over 20 years of retail experience. Margaret Feeney has served as Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Ms. Feeney was promoted to Vice President of Finance in July 2001. Ms. Feeney has served in a variety of financial and operational capacities with us since 1992. Prior to joining us, Ms. Feeney served as Manager of Financial Analysis and Budgeting for Toys “R” Us and in various financial positions at Brooks Fashion Stores, a junior specialty chain. Ms. Feeney has 20 years of retail experience. Arthur S. Mintz has served as one of our directors since September 2002. Mr. Mintz has served as the President of Bees & Jam, Inc., an apparel manufacturer, since 1971. Andrew M. Saul has served as one of our directors since 1986. Mr. Saul also served as our Chairman of the Board from February 1993 to October 2000. Mr. Saul is a partner in Saul Partners, an investment partnership, a position he has held since 1986. Morton J. Schrader has served as one of our directors since 1989. Mr. Schrader was the President of Abe Schrader Corp., a manufacturer of women’s apparel, from 1968 through March 1989. Since 1989, he has been active as a real estate broker and is a principal of PBS Realty Advisors. Gene G. Gage has served as one of our directors since September 2004. Mr. Gage is currently the President and Chief Executive Officer of Gage Associates, a firm which provides financial planning and 11 services to individuals and businesses. He is a certified public accountant, as well as a certified financial planner. He has over 30 years of financial experience. Other Key Employees Victor Coster has served as Secretary since July 1991 and as our Treasurer since July 2001. Mr. Coster is responsible for all treasury and tax matters. Mr. Coster joined us in February 1991, and has held various positions, most recently as Controller from February 1997 to July 2001. Mr. Coster has over 25 years of experience in finance and accounting and has been a Certified Public Accountant since 1981. Lisa Decker has served as Vice President of Marketing and Advertising since 1998 and was our Director of Marketing from 1991 until 1998. She has over 20 years of experience in marketing, advertising, sales promotion and visual merchandising within the retail industry. Clifford Gray has served as Vice President of Construction since 1999 and was our Operations Manager from 1991 to 1999. Prior to joining us, Mr. Gray served as Operations Manager with Kids “R” Us. Joanne Marselle has served as Vice President of Planning and Distribution since 2000 and was our Director of Planning from 1990 to 2000. Prior to joining us, Ms. Marselle served at various times as a Planning and Distribution Analyst and a Merchandise Coordinator for both Country Road Australia and Ann Taylor. Ms. Marselle has over 20 years experience in the areas of planning and distribution. Caryl Paez has served as Director of Information Technologies since he rejoined our company in 1999. From 1996 to 1999, he was Director of Information Technologies for Louis Vuitton Americas. From 1992 to 1996, he served as our Director of Management Systems and from 1989 to 1992, as our Manager of Point of Sales Systems. 