ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Macroeconomic conditions have adversely impacted our business and results of operations and may continue to do so. The retail sector is affected by macroeconomic factors, including changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. Furthermore, because our customer traffic and sales volume are largely derived from the volume of consumer traffic in the malls in which we operate, we are adversely affected by general declines in mall traffic. The economic slowdown that began in 2008 has adversely affected and continues to adversely affect our results of operations. Continued uncertainty in or a worsening of the economy generally or in a number of our markets could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to ever-changing fashion trends and customer demands. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Our success depends in large part on our ability to anticipate the fashion tastes of our customers, to respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into fashionable merchandise on a timely basis. However, the lead times associated with our planning and merchandising strategies could increase our risk of misjudging fashion trends or styles. If we are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, our sales may decline and we may be faced with excess inventories. If this occurs, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory. This could also cause us to miss opportunities. In addition, if we misjudge fashion tastes and our customers come to believe that we are no longer able to offer fashions that appeal to them, our sales and brand image may suffer. All of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. The women's apparel market is highly competitive, fragmented and characterized by low barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including traditional department stores, national and local specialty retail stores, internet-based retailers and mail order retailers. Many of our competitors, particularly traditional department stores and national specialty retail stores, are larger and have significantly greater resources to expend on marketing and advertising campaigns. In addition, many of these competitors have greater name recognition in general than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in competing against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors or entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents In addition, as a result of macroeconomic conditions, a substantial number of retailers have increased the frequency and duration of their discount sales and other promotions and have increased the level of merchandise discounts. This has resulted and is expected to continue to result in intense competition. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive, we have had to increase our use of discount sales, which has impacted our gross margins. Our sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis and are sensitive to economic conditions, consumer spending patterns and other events and conditions. Our net sales and net income are generally highest each year during our fourth fiscal quarter (October, November and December) and lowest in our third fiscal quarter (July, August and September). Sales during any period cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our annual results. Any decrease in sales during the fourth quarter in a given year, such as that which occurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, could hurt our profitability. Our business is also sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions and consumer spending patterns, as discussed in the other risk factors contained herein. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the timing of holidays and other local, regional, national or international events and conditions, including energy prices, climatologic events such as hurricanes, strikes and other business disruptions, or the effects of war, terrorism or the threat of either of these events. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by many factors that we cannot control. Our quarterly results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal 2010, our quarterly comparable sales at Cache stores have ranged from an increase of 12.4% to a decrease of 6.8%. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: •General economic conditions, general mall traffic and consumer spending patterns; •Fashion trends; •Calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; •The effectiveness of our inventory management; •Changes in our merchandise mix; •The timing of promotional events; •Weather conditions; and •Actions of competitors or events that affect other mall tenants and/or our e-commerce initiatives. Our success depends in part on the efforts of our management team. Our success in managing our business and implementing our business and growth strategies depends on the abilities and experience of our management team. If we were to lose the services of one or more members of this team, in particular Jay Margolis, our Chairman and CEO, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner. This in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Mr. Margolis joined our Company on February 5, 2013. We may experience difficulty in integrating Mr. Margolis into our Company. In addition, pursuant to the employment agreement that we entered into with Mr. Margolis, if our shareholders do not approve the issuances of shares in the rights offering and under the Backstop and Investment Agreement on or before July 5, 2013, then Mr. Margolis may resign from his positions with the Company without any continuing obligations to us. Our ability to attract new customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls in which we are located. All but a few of our existing stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived in large part from the volume of consumer traffic in these malls. In addition, traffic in some of the malls in which we have stores has been adversely affected by store closures and bankruptcies by other tenants, including anchor or other large tenants. We cannot control vacancy rates in the malls in which we have stores, continued popularity of malls as shopping destinations, the solvency of landlords and the level of maintenance and upkeep that they perform or improvements that they make at the malls, development of new shopping malls or the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls. A decrease in shopping mall traffic could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturers may be unable to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner or meet our quality standards, which could result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. We source our products directly from unaffiliated manufacturers and vendors. Most of these manufacturers and vendors utilize overseas factories. Furthermore, similar to most other specialty retailers, we have short selling seasons for much of our inventory. Factors outside of our control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or quality problems, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in part on maintaining good relationships with our key vendors. During fiscal 2012, we purchased approximately 32% of our product from five vendors of which one vendor accounted for 13% of our product purchased. The terms of our relationships with our vendors generally are not contractual and do not assure adequate supply or pricing on a long-term basis. If one or more of these vendors ceased to sell to us or significantly altered the terms of our relationship, we may be unable to obtain merchandise in a timely manner, in the desired styles, fabrics or colors, or at the prices and volumes we wish to purchase. This could hurt our ability to respond to changing fashion trends and thus our sales and profitability. Substantially all our merchandise is produced in foreign facilities. This subjects us to the risks of international trade and other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets. We and substantially all of our vendors utilize overseas production facilities. The failure of foreign manufacturers to ship products to us in a timely manner could result in our stores lacking needed inventory. Any event causing a disruption of imports, including financial or political instability, currency fluctuations, terrorism or heightened security, trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas or both, political or military conflict involving the United States or other countries, or the migration of manufacturers, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These adverse impacts may include increased cost to us and reductions in the supply of merchandise. 12 Table of Contents We rely on our manufacturers to use acceptable ethical business practices, and if they fail to do so, the Cache brand name could suffer reputational harm and our sales could decline or our inventory supply could be interrupted. We do not control our manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, our reputation could be damaged and the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted. Either of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on third parties to distribute our merchandise. If these third parties do not adequately perform this function, our business would be disrupted. The efficient operation of our business depends on the ability of the Company and its vendors to ship merchandise through third-party carriers, such as United Parcel Service, directly to our individual stores. These carriers typically employ personnel represented by labor unions and have experienced labor difficulties in the past. Due to our reliance on these parties for our shipments, interruptions in shipments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in fuel prices may also increase our shipping costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The raw materials used to manufacture our products and our distribution and labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility, which could result in increased costs. The raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, weather, supply conditions, regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in labor costs, as well as a shortage of labor, especially in China and other areas we source in, may also impact our sourcing costs. In addition, our transportation costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, distribution services and labor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are risks associated with e-commerce. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including: (i) rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems and platforms; (ii) diversion of sales from our stores; (iii) liability for online content; (iv) violations of state or federal laws, including those relating to online privacy; (v) credit card fraud; (vi) the failure of the computer systems that operate our website and their related support systems, including computer viruses; and (vii) telecommunications failures, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Any failure of our systems, policies or procedures to protect against such risks could materially damage our brand and reputation as well as result in significant damage claims, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our Cache brand is associated with all of our merchandise, our success depends heavily on the value associated with our brand. If the value associated with our brand were to diminish, our sales could decrease, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our Cache brand and its value. The Cache brand could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. There can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may be unable to successfully resolve those types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Any material disruption of our information systems could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our information systems integrate all major aspects of our business, including merchandise planning, purchasing, inventory control, distribution, sales and finance. Our POS system, which uses a wide area network, allows us to add various functionalities, including the ability to process debit card transactions, centralize credit authorizations, enhance labor scheduling, centralize our customer database, manage our customer loyalty program, speed up customer transaction time and analyze real-time sales data. We are dependent on these information systems for the efficient operation of our business, including our e-commerce initiatives. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, computer viruses, security breaches, misplaced or lost data, acts of vandalism, natural disasters, power loss, programming and/or human error or other similar events. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by any failure on our part to successfully maintain or perform additional upgrades to our systems, could cause information to be lost or delay our ability to process and make use of that information in our business, which may adversely affect us. In addition, if future changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our current information systems prove to be inadequate to support our business, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must protect against security breaches or other disclosures of private data of our customers as well as of our employees and other third parties. We rely on our computer hardware and software systems for the efficient operation of our retail stores and e-commerce initiatives. We have systems and processes in place that are designed to protect information and protect against security and data breaches as well as fraudulent transactions and other activities. Despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, we cannot be assured that all of our systems and processes are free from vulnerability to security breaches by third parties or inadvertent data disclosure by us. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information could severely damage our reputation and our relationship with our clients, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business. Our marketing efforts rely upon the effective use of customer information. Restrictions on the availability or use of customer information could adversely affect our marketing initiatives, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We use customer information to market to our customers. Any limitations imposed on the use of such consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our marketing activities. In addition, to the extent our security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation, which could expose us to liability and cause damage to our reputation or brand. 14 Table of Contents Our business is subject to numerous regulations. Changes in or violations of such regulations could adversely impact us. Our business is subject to numerous regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, truth-in-lending, consumer protection, zoning and occupancy, employment laws, and regulations and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise, the use of proprietary credit cards and the operation of retail stores and distribution facilities. If any of these laws change, or are violated by our employees, importers, buying agents, manufacturers or distributors, such change or violation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If new legislation restricting the importation or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad is enacted, our business could be adversely affected. Legislation that would restrict the importation or increase the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad has been periodically introduced in Congress. The enactment of new legislation, international trade regulation, or executive action affecting international textile or trade agreements, could adversely affect our business. International trade agreements that can provide for tariffs and/or quotas can increase the cost and limit the amount of product that can be imported. Risks Related to our Common Stock There can be no assurance that we will consummate the rights offering and the other issuances contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement. Pursuant to the Backstop and Investment Agreement, in a transaction separate from the rights offering, (a) each of MFP Partners, L.P. ("MFP Partners") and Mill Road Capital, L.P. ("Mill Road") has severally and not jointly agreed to purchase from us the number of shares of common stock equal to its full pro rata share (as of the record date) of the number of shares of common stock to be offered pursuant to the rights offering, (b) each of MFP Partners, Mill Road and Mr. Margolis has agreed, severally and not jointly, to purchase from us a specified number of shares such that the gross proceeds to us from the rights offering, the issuance of shares to MFP Partners and Mill Road as described in clause (a) above and the backstop commitment described in this clause (b) will be $8.0 million, and (c) each of Mill Road and Mr. Margolis has agreed to purchase from us additional shares of common stock in such amount, if any, sufficient to enable them to acquire an aggregate of $3.5 million and $1.0 million of common stock, respectively, to the extent they are not able to otherwise acquire such amounts pursuant to the transactions described in clauses (a) and (b) of this sentence. We refer to the transactions described in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of the foregoing sentence as the "pro rata investment," the "backstop commitment" and the "top-up investment," respectively, and we refer to MFP Partners, Mill Road and Mr. Margolis collectively as the "Investors." The proceeds from the rights offering and the issuances of shares pursuant to the Backstop and Investment Agreement are intended to raise capital to provide us with the financial resources to return to profitability and growth under the leadership of Mr. Margolis. However, we cannot assure you that the capital raised through the rights offering and the other issuances contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement will be consummated or that the capital raised pursuant to such issuances will be sufficient for these purposes. If the rights offering is not approved by our shareholders, neither Mr. Margolis nor the other Investors will purchase any shares of our common stock pursuant to the Backstop and Investment Agreement. If we are unable to complete the rights offering and the other issuances contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement, such failure would materially and adversely affect our business, financial results and prospects. 15 Table of Contents Your ownership interest will be diluted if the transactions contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement are consummated. We have entered into the Backstop and Investment Agreement with MFP Partners, Mill Road and Jay Margolis, under which MFP Partners and Mill Road have agreed to make the pro rata investment, MFP Partners, Mill Road and Jay Margolis have made the backstop commitment, and Mill Road and Mr. Margolis have agreed, if applicable, to make the top-up investment. The issuance of shares pursuant to the pro rata investment, backstop commitment and the top-up investment will result in the dilution of your ownership interest. As of March 8, 2013, MFP Partners and Mill Road beneficially owned approximately 16.5% and 3.1%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. Assuming the conditions to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement are satisfied, we will issue an aggregate of 798,546 shares and 150,625 shares of common stock to MFP Partners and Mill Road, respectively, pursuant to the pro rata investment. In addition, if no subscription rights are exercised in the rights offering, in addition to the shares issued to MFP Partners and Mill Road pursuant to the pro rata investment, we will issue an aggregate of 1,322,666 shares, 1,970,587 shares and 606,060 shares of common stock to MFP Partners, Mill Road and Jay Margolis, respectively, pursuant to the backstop commitment. Under such circumstances, and assuming that shares of restricted stock held by Mr. Reinckens are forfeited pursuant to his Separation Agreement (as defined below), MFP Partners' and Mill Road's ownership percentage of our outstanding common stock would increase to approximately 23.9% and 14.0%, respectively, and Mr. Margolis' ownership percentage of common stock would be 3.4%, in each case after giving effect to the foregoing transactions. If the rights offering is fully subscribed, we will issue 798,546 shares and 150,625 shares to MFP Partners and Mill Road, respectively, pursuant to the pro rata investment, and an additional 1,970,587 shares to Mill Road and 606,060 shares to Mr. Margolis pursuant to the top-up investment. Under such circumstances, assuming MFP Partners and Mill Road exercise their basic subscription rights pursuant to the rights offering, and assuming that shares of restricted stock held by Mr. Reinckens are forfeited pursuant to his Separation Agreement (as defined below), MFP Partners, Mill Road and Mr. Margolis will own approximately 17.6%, 12.4% and 2.8% of our common stock, respectively, after giving effect to the foregoing transactions. In addition, because the subscription rights pursuant to the rights offering are transferable, MFP Partners and Mill Road have the right to acquire subscription rights from other holders of rights and exercise such rights in the rights offering. In the event MFP Partners and Mill Road so acquire and exercise subscription rights, or exercise over-subscription rights pursuant to the rights offering, the ownership percentage of MFP Partners and Mill Road would increase above the percentages set forth in the previous paragraphs. Any shares acquired by MFP Partners or Mill Road pursuant to these subscription rights will not affect the number of shares that either of them purchase pursuant to the pro rata investment or that Mill Road purchases pursuant to the top-up investment. MFP Partners and Mill Road may exert significant influence on our corporate affairs and actions, including those submitted to a shareholder vote. As of March 8, 2013, MFP Partners and Mill Road beneficially owned approximately 16.5% and 3.1%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. If the rights offering and the other transactions contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement are consummated, MFP Partners and Mill Road will own at least approximately 13.9% and 11.7% of our shares of common stock, respectively, and as much as approximately 23.9% and 14.0% of our common stock, respectively, in each case taking into account the shares of restricted stock Mr. Reinckens will forfeit. In addition, because the subscription rights pursuant to the rights offering are transferable, MFP Partners and Mill Road have the right to acquire subscription rights from other holders of rights and exercise such rights in the 16 Table of Contents rights offering. In the event MFP Partners and Mill Road so acquire and exercise subscription rights, or exercise over-subscription rights pursuant to the rights offering, the ownership percentage of MFP Partners and Mill Road would increase above such percentages. Accordingly, MFP Partners and Mill Road may have considerable influence on our corporate affairs and actions, including those submitted to a shareholder vote. MFP Partners and Mill Road also have certain rights to representation on our Board of Directors and its committees as provided in the Voting Agreement, dated as of February 5, 2013 (the "Voting Agreement"). The interests of MFP Partners and Mill Road may be different from your interests. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence—The Backstop and Investment Agreement and Related Transactions" for further information concerning the matters discussed in this Risk Factor. The rights offering and the other issuances contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. The subscription price relating to the rights offering and the other issuances contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement of $1.65 per share is lower than the average of the closing sales prices of our common stock over the twenty (20) trading day period ended March 8, 2013. The announcement of the rights offering and the other issuances contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement and their respective terms, including the subscription price, together with the number of shares of common stock we may issue if such transactions are completed, have resulted in and may result in further changes in the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, if a substantial number of subscription rights pursuant to the rights offering are exercised and the holders of the shares received upon exercise of those subscription rights choose to sell some or all of those shares, the resulting sales could depress the market price of our common stock. Our share price has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly During fiscal 2012, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $2.00 to $7.88 per share. The stock market has, from time to time and especially since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors, including: •Periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or other companies in the retail industry; •A shortfall in net sales or net income from that expected in securities analysts' estimates or from that expected by investors; •Changes in our liquidity and capital resources; •Material announcements by or developments affecting us or our competitors; •Sales, including pursuant to the transactions contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement, or repurchases of a substantial number of common shares; and •Adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their shares have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and resources, thus harming our business. 17 Table of Contents Shares eligible for public sale could adversely affect our stock price. The market price for our common stock could decline as a result of sales by shareholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales may occur. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Of the estimated 21,611,335 shares that could be outstanding following the completion of the rights offering and the other issuances contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement (assuming (x) the rights offering is fully subscribed and (y) MFP Partners and Mill Road have exercised their basic subscription rights pursuant to the rights offering and (z) the other issuances pursuant to the Backstop and Investment Agreement are consummated in accordance with such agreement): •11,442,032 shares generally will be freely tradable in the public market; and •7,094,418 shares held by MFP Partners, Mill Road and Mr. Margolis (which includes (x) shares to be issued to such parties pursuant to the rights offering and under the Backstop and Investment Agreement and (y) shares held by such parties as of February 15, 2013) will be freely tradable in the public market, upon the effectiveness of the Resale Registration Statement or upon registration pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement (as defined under "—Our registration of shares held by MFP Partners, Mill Road and Mr. Margolis may cause the price of our common stock to decrease"). In addition: •295,675 additional shares will be eligible for issuance pursuant to options presently outstanding under our existing stock option plans, which shares we anticipate will be freely tradable once issued; •286,223 restricted shares will be outstanding (assuming the forfeiture of certain shares of restricted stock by Mr. Reinckens pursuant to his Separation Agreement) which are subject to vesting, which shares we anticipate will be freely tradable once vested; and •1,000,000 additional shares will be eligible for issuance pursuant to options issued to Mr. Margolis, which shares we anticipate will not be freely tradable once issued. Furthermore, Andrew M. Saul, who is one of our directors, and Thomas E. Reinckens, who is our former Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, are currently subject to certain transfer restrictions relating to 1,699,334 shares and 249,828 shares (which includes certain restricted shares subject to vesting) owned by such persons, respectively. These transfer restrictions will lapse upon the earlier to occur of (i) two trading days following the closing date of the issuance of shares in the rights offering and under the Backstop and Investment Agreement and (ii) 30 days following the termination of the Backstop and Investment Agreement. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence—The Backstop and Investment Agreement and Related Transactions—Voting and Standstill Agreements" for further information with respect to such transfer restrictions. Our registration of shares held by MFP Partners, Mill Road and Mr. Margolis may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. Pursuant to the Backstop and Investment Agreement, we will file a shelf registration statement (the "Resale Registration Statement") on Form S-3 registering offers and sales of the shares to be acquired by MFP Partners, Mill Road and Mr. Margolis pursuant to the Backstop and Investment Agreement. In addition, we have agreed to enter into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with each of MFP Partners and Mill Road upon the closing of the rights offering 18 Table of Contents and the other issuances contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, each of MFP Partners and Mill Road will each have demand rights on two occasions and unlimited piggyback registration rights relating to any shares of our common stock held by such parties. MFP Partners and Mill Road will also have the right to require us to file a shelf registration statement relating to such shares as one of such demand rights. The shares that we register pursuant to the Resale Registration Statement and any registration statement we file pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement will be eligible for trading in the public market. The trading of these additional shares of common stock in the public market could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and could impair our future ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Our management will have broad discretion over the use of the proceeds from the rights offering and the other transactions contemplated by the Backstop and Investment Agreement. You may not agree with how we use the proceeds and we may not use the proceeds successfully. We have complete discretion over the use of the proceeds from the rights offering and the other transactions under the Backstop and Investment Agreement. In addition, market factors may require us to allocate portions of the proceeds for unintended purposes. Accordingly, you will be relying on our management with regard to the use of the proceeds from the rights offering and the other transactions under the Backstop and Investment Agreement. It is possible that the proceeds will be invested in a way that does not yield a favorable, or any, return for the Company. Provisions of our governing documents could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in our control, and this may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or deny our shareholders a chance to realize a premium on their shares. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions, including those listed below, that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders: •Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without further shareholder approval; and •There are limitations on who can call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, provisions of Florida law and our stock option plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or unsolicited acquisition proposals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 