ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Macroeconomic conditions have adversely impacted our business and results of operations and may continue to do so. The retail sector is affected by macroeconomic factors, including changes in international, national, regional and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. Furthermore, because our customer traffic and sales volume are largely derived from the volume of consumer traffic in the malls in which we operate, we are adversely affected by general declines in mall traffic. The economic slowdown that began in 2008 has adversely affected and continues to adversely affect our results of operations. Continued uncertainty in or a worsening of the economy generally or in a number of our markets could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to ever-changing fashion trends and customer demands. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Our success depends in large part on our ability to anticipate the fashion tastes of our customers, to respond to changing fashion tastes and 8 Table of Contents consumer demands, and to translate market trends into fashionable merchandise on a timely basis. However, the lead times associated with our planning and merchandising strategies could increase our risk of misjudging fashion trends or styles. If we are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, our sales may decline and we may be faced with excess inventories. If this occurs, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory. This could also cause us to miss opportunities. In addition, if we misjudge fashion tastes and our customers come to believe that we are no longer able to offer fashions that appeal to them, our sales and brand image may suffer. All of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. The women's apparel market is highly competitive, fragmented and characterized by low barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including traditional department stores, national and local specialty retail stores, internet-based retailers and mail order retailers. Many of our competitors, particularly traditional department stores and national specialty retail stores, are larger and have significantly greater resources to expend on marketing and advertising campaigns. In addition, many of these competitors have greater name recognition in general than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in competing against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors or entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of macroeconomic conditions, a substantial number of retailers have increased the frequency and duration of their discount sales and other promotions and have increased the level of merchandise discounts. This has resulted and is expected to continue to result in intense competition. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive, we have had to increase our use of discount sales, which has impacted our gross margins. Our success depends on customer acceptance of our merchandise and on purchasing an appropriate level of inventory. Although our markdown rate has improved, our markdowns are still above historical levels and has put pressure on our working capital. Our management is working to improve our merchandise offerings and our markdown rate to improve our working capital. The $11.3 million net proceeds we received pursuant to the rights offering that was completed in May 2013 and related transactions has enhanced our working capital. The Company also entered into a $25 million Credit Facility with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association to enhance our cash borrowings. However, we cannot assure you that the capital raised in the rights offering and related transactions, in addition to the Credit Facility will be sufficient to fully address our working capital needs. Our sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis and are sensitive to economic conditions, consumer spending patterns and other events and conditions. Our net sales are generally highest each year during our second and fourth fiscal quarters and lowest in our first and third fiscal quarters. Sales during any period cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our annual results. Any significant decrease in sales during fiscal 2014 could further hurt our working capital. Our business is also sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions and consumer spending patterns, as discussed in the other risk factors contained herein. In addition, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the timing of holidays and other local, regional, national or international events and conditions, including energy prices, climatologic events 9 Table of Contents such as hurricanes, strikes and other business disruptions, or the effects of war, terrorism or the threat of either of these events. Our Credit Agreement has restrictions that may limit our ability to fund operations, which could adversely affect our business. The Company entered into a new credit agreement on July 25, 2013 (the "Credit Agreement") with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. The credit facility ("Credit Facility") pursuant to the Credit Agreement provides the Company with a line of credit of $25 million for short term borrowings and letters of credit with a sublimit of $5 million. The Credit Agreement has covenants that may restrict the manner in which we operate our business. These covenants, among other things, subject us to limitations on indebtedness, liens, investments, dividends or other capital distributions, purchases or redemptions of stock, sales of assets or subsidiary stock, transactions with affiliates, line of business and accelerated payments of certain obligations, and minimum availability requirement. Should we fail to comply with the covenants and conditions, we may be unable to fund our operations without a significant restructuring of our business. The actual amount that is available under our line of credit fluctuates from time to time, due to factors including, but not limited to, eligible inventory and credit card receivables, reserve amounts, outstanding letters of credit, and borrowing under our line of credit. Consequently, it is possible that, should we need to access any additional funds from our line of credit, it may not be available in full. As of December 28, 2013, the Company had outstanding letters of credit of $1.1 million under the Credit Facility and no borrowing. Continued material operating losses could adversely impact our liquidity, including our cash, and it may be necessary to seek additional sources of financing, which may not be available to us in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. We believe we have sufficient liquidity, including our cash flow from operations and our line of credit that we may continue to draw on from time to time, to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we have had recurring operating losses and if our future operating performance is below our expectations or our line of credit is not fully available to us, our liquidity could be adversely impacted and it may be necessary to seek additional sources of liquidity. There is no assurance that debt or equity financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by many factors that we cannot control. Our quarterly results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal 2011, our quarterly comparable sales at Cache stores have ranged from an increase of 12.4% to a decrease of 5.9%. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: •General economic conditions, general mall traffic and consumer spending patterns; •Fashion trends; •Calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; •The effectiveness of our inventory management; •Changes in our merchandise mix; •The timing of promotional events; 10 Table of Contents •Weather conditions; and •Actions of competitors or events that affect other mall tenants and/or our e-commerce initiatives. Our success depends in part on the efforts of our management team. Our success in managing our business and implementing our business and growth strategies depends on the abilities and experience of our management team. If we were to lose the services of one or more members of this team, in particular Jay Margolis, our Chairman and CEO, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner. This in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that future store openings will be successful and new store openings may impact existing stores. We currently anticipate opening at least two new stores in fiscal 2014. In the past, we have closed stores as a result of poor performance, and we cannot assure that any store that we open in fiscal 2014, or any other stores that we might open in the future, will be successful or that our overall operating profit will increase as a result of opening these stores. During fiscal 2013, we opened two new stores and closed 12 stores. To date, during fiscal 2014, we have closed seven stores. [Any domestic new store opening in fiscal 2014 will be in existing markets. These openings may affect the existing stores' net sales and profitability.] Our failure to predict accurately the demographic or retail environment at any future store location could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria, including traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, average sales per square foot, lease economics, demographics, and other factors, and our ability to negotiate terms that meet our financial targets. In addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. Failure to secure real estate locations adequate to meet annual targets as well as effectively managing the profitability of our existing fleet of stores could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract new customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls in which we are located. All but a few of our existing stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived in large part from the volume of consumer traffic in these malls. In addition, traffic in some of the malls in which we have stores has been adversely affected by store closures and bankruptcies by other tenants, including anchor or other large tenants. We cannot control vacancy rates in the malls in which we have stores, continued popularity of malls as shopping destinations, the solvency of landlords and the level of maintenance and upkeep that they perform or improvements that they make at the malls, development of new shopping malls or the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls. A decrease in shopping mall traffic could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturers may be unable to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner or meet our quality standards, which could result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. We source our products directly from unaffiliated manufacturers and vendors. Most of these manufacturers and vendors utilize overseas factories. Furthermore, similar to most other specialty retailers, we have short selling seasons for much of our inventory. Factors outside of our control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or quality problems, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and 11 Table of Contents result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in part on maintaining good relationships with our key vendors. During fiscal 2013, we purchased approximately 36% of our product from five vendors of which one vendor accounted for 12% of our product purchased. The terms of our relationships with our vendors generally are not contractual and do not assure adequate supply or pricing on a long-term basis. If one or more of these vendors ceased to sell to us or significantly altered the terms of our relationship, we may be unable to obtain merchandise in a timely manner, in the desired styles, fabrics or colors, or at the prices and volumes we wish to purchase. This could hurt our ability to respond to changing fashion trends and thus our sales and profitability. Substantially all our merchandise is produced in foreign facilities. This subjects us to the risks of international trade and other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets. We and substantially all of our vendors utilize overseas production facilities. The failure of foreign manufacturers to ship products to us in a timely manner could result in our stores lacking needed inventory. Any event causing a disruption of imports, including financial or political instability, currency fluctuations, terrorism or heightened security, trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas or both, political or military conflict involving the United States or other countries, or the migration of manufacturers, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These adverse impacts may include increased cost to us and reductions in the supply of merchandise. We rely on our manufacturers to use acceptable ethical business practices, and if they fail to do so, the Cache brand name could suffer reputational harm and our sales could decline or our inventory supply could be interrupted. We do not control our manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, our reputation could be damaged and the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted. Either of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on third parties to distribute our merchandise. If these third parties do not adequately perform this function, our business would be disrupted. The efficient operation of our business depends on the ability of the Company and its vendors to ship merchandise through third party carriers, such as United Parcel Service, directly to our individual stores. These carriers typically employ personnel represented by labor unions and have experienced labor difficulties in the past. Due to our reliance on these parties for our shipments, interruptions in shipments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in fuel prices may also increase our shipping costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The raw materials used to manufacture our products and our distribution and labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility, which could result in increased costs. The raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for petroleum based synthetic fabrics, weather, supply conditions, regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in labor costs, as well as a shortage of labor, especially in China and other areas we source in, may also impact our sourcing costs. In addition, our transportation costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of 12 Table of Contents oil, regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, distribution services and labor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are risks associated with e-commerce. Our e-commerce operations are subject to numerous risks, including: (i) rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems and platforms; (ii) diversion of sales from our stores; (iii) liability for online content; (iv) violations of state or federal laws, including those relating to online privacy; (v) credit card fraud; (vi) the failure of the computer systems that operate our website and their related support systems, including computer viruses; and our ability to transition to a new website; and (vii) telecommunications failures, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Any failure of our systems, policies or procedures to protect against such risks could materially damage our brand and reputation as well as result in significant damage claims, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our Cache brand is associated with all of our merchandise, our success depends heavily on the value associated with our brand. If the value associated with our brand were to diminish, our sales could decrease, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our Cache brand and its value. The Cache brand could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. There can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may be unable to successfully resolve those types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Any material disruption of our information systems could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our information systems integrate all major aspects of our business, including merchandise planning, purchasing, inventory control, distribution, sales and finance. Our POS system, which uses a wide area network, allows us to add various functionalities, including the ability to process debit card transactions, centralize credit authorizations, enhance labor scheduling, centralize our customer database, manage our customer loyalty program, speed up customer transaction time and analyze real-time sales data. We are dependent on these information systems for the efficient operation of our business, including our e-commerce initiatives. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, computer viruses, security breaches, misplaced or lost data, acts of vandalism, natural disasters, power loss, programming and/or human error or other similar events. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by any failure on our part to successfully maintain or perform additional upgrades to our systems, could cause information to be lost or delay our ability to process and make use of that information in our business, which may adversely affect us. In addition, if future changes in technology cause our information systems to become 13 Table of Contents obsolete, or if our current information systems prove to be inadequate to support our business, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must protect against security breaches or other disclosures of private data of our customers as well as of our employees and other third parties. We rely on our computer hardware and software systems for the efficient operation of our retail stores and e-commerce initiatives. We have systems and processes in place that are designed to protect information and protect against security and data breaches as well as fraudulent transactions and other activities. Despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, we cannot be assured that all of our systems and processes are free from vulnerability to security breaches by third parties or inadvertent data disclosure by us. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information could severely damage our reputation and our relationship with our clients, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business. Our marketing efforts rely upon the effective use of customer information. Restrictions on the availability or use of customer information could adversely affect our marketing initiatives, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We use customer information to market to our customers. Any limitations imposed on the use of such consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our marketing activities. In addition, to the extent our security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation, which could expose us to liability and cause damage to our reputation or brand. Our business is subject to numerous regulations. Changes in or violations of such regulations could adversely impact us. Our business is subject to numerous regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, truth-in-lending, consumer protection, zoning and occupancy, employment laws, and regulations and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise, the use of proprietary credit cards and the operation of retail stores and distribution facilities. If any of these laws change, or are violated by our employees, importers, buying agents, manufacturers or distributors, such change or violation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If new legislation restricting the importation or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad is enacted, our business could be adversely affected. Legislation that would restrict the importation or increase the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad has been periodically introduced in Congress. The enactment of new legislation, international trade regulation, or executive action affecting international textile or trade agreements, could adversely affect our business. International trade agreements that can provide for tariffs and/or quotas can increase the cost and limit the amount of product that can be imported. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock MFP Partners and Mill Road own a substantial interest in us and have certain representation on our board of directors and its committees, and thus may exert significant influence on our corporate affairs and actions, including those submitted to a stockholder vote. MFP Partners and Mill Road own approximately 17.5% and 12.4% of our shares of common stock, respectively. In addition, pursuant to a Voting Agreement entered into by the Company and MFP Partners and Mill Road, two individuals designated by MFP Partners and one individual designated by Mill Road were elected to our board of directors at the 2013 annual meeting of our stockholders. Each committee of our board of directors includes one director designated by MFP Partners and one director designated by Mill Road in accordance with the Voting Agreement, which expired immediately following the 2013 annual meeting of our stockholders. Accordingly, MFP Partners and Mill Road have considerable influence on our corporate affairs and actions, including those submitted to a stockholder vote. The interests of MFP Partners and Mill Road may be different from your interests. Our share price has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly During fiscal 2013, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $2.24 to $6.83 per share. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors, including: •Periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or other companies in the retail industry; •A shortfall in net sales or net income from that expected in securities analysts' estimates or from that expected by investors; •Changes in our liquidity and capital resources; •Material announcements by or developments affecting us or our competitors; •Sales or repurchases of a substantial number of common shares; and •Adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their shares have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and resources, thus harming our business. Provisions of our governing documents could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in our control, and this may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or deny our stockholders a chance to realize a premium on their shares. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions, including those listed below, that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders: •Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without further stockholder approval; and •There are limitations on who can call special meetings of stockholders. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our stock option plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or unsolicited acquisition proposals. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 