ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our growth will depend on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores. This may strain our ability to manage our business. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. Opening new stores is dependent on a variety of factors including our ability to: •Identify suitable markets and sites for store locations; •Negotiate acceptable lease terms; •Hire, train and retain competent store personnel; •Maintain a proportion of new stores to mature stores that does not harm existing sales or profitability; •Foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying an increasing volume of merchandise; •Manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; and •Expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth. During both fiscal 2005 and 2006, we opened 17 Cache stores and during fiscal 2007, we opened 10 Cache stores. In addition, during the third fiscal quarter of fiscal 2006, we converted 16 Lillie Rubin locations to Cache Luxe stores. During fiscal 2008, we intend to open approximately 12 new Cache stores. We intend to continue to open a significant number of new stores in future years and to remodel many of our existing stores as their leases come up for renewal. Our proposed expansion will place demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. As we open more stores, our resources may come under greater strain and may prove to be inadequate. If we are unable to open new stores or remodel our existing stores as planned, or if our new stores are unsuccessful, it could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Even if we are able to open new stores as planned, some of our newly opened stores may not be commercially successful, possibly resulting in 10 their closure at a significant cost to us or a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our expansion into new markets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our new stores will be opened in areas of the United States in which we currently have few or no stores. The expansion into new markets may present competitive, merchandising and administrative challenges that are different from those currently encountered in our existing markets. Any of these challenges could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. Our new Cache Luxe concept may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and divert management's time and attention from our core Cache store business. During the third fiscal quarter of 2006, we opened 16 Cache Luxe stores. We closed one Cache Luxe store during fiscal 2007. Almost all of our Cache Luxe stores are located in malls that also contain a Cache store. As a new concept, Cache Luxe may not be successful. It may detract from our existing Cache brand and/or result in reduced sales at Cache stores that are located in the same mall as a Cache Luxe store. The continued implementation and expansion of the Cache Luxe concept could divert our management's time and resources from our core Cache store business. If the results of operations of our Cache Luxe stores are not significantly better than the Lillie Rubin stores they replaced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract new customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls in which we are located. All but a few of our existing stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived in large part from the volume of consumer traffic in these malls. Our stores benefit from the ability of malls and their other tenants to generate traffic. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls, or the continued popularity of malls as shopping destinations. A significant decrease in shopping mall traffic would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Fluctuations in comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations could cause the price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our quarterly results of operations for our individual stores have fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal 2005, our quarterly comparable sales at Cache stores have ranged from an increase of 9% to a decrease of 7%. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase comparable store sales in the future over any given period. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: •Fashion trends; •Calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; •The effectiveness of our inventory management; •Changes in our merchandise mix; •The timing of promotional events; 11 •Weather conditions; •Changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; and •Actions of competitors or mall anchor tenants. If our future comparable store sales or our quarterly financial results fail to meet market expectations, then the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our success depends in part on the efforts of our management team. Our success in implementing our business and growth strategies depends on the abilities and experience of our management team. If we were to lose the services of one or more members of this team, and in particular the services of Thomas Reinckens, our Chief Executive Officer, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement on a timely basis. This in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a relatively small number of domestic vendors, and our success depends on maintaining good relationships with these vendors to source our products. We drop ship products to our stores, which allows us to respond quickly to fashion preferences and demand, as well as to reduce inventory risk. Due to our recent acquisition of our largest vendor, we currently purchase only a portion of our merchandise from third party agents, who arrange for the manufacture of our apparel overseas. Our five largest vendors, excluding our largest vendor which we recently acquired, accounted for approximately 14% of our purchases during the 52 weeks ended December 29, 2007, and our largest vendor accounted for 4% of our purchases during the 52 weeks ended December 29, 2007. In July 2007, we purchased certain assets of our largest vendor, AVD. During fiscal 2006, we purchased 27% of our merchandise from AVD. During fiscal 2007, purchases from AVD prior to acquisition totaled 47% of our purchases. We anticipate purchases from third party vendors to approximate 25% of our total purchases in fiscal 2008. The terms of our relationships with our vendors generally are not contractual and do not assure adequate supply or pricing on a long-term basis. If one or more of these vendors ceased to sell to us or significantly altered the terms of our relationship, we may be unable to obtain merchandise in a timely manner, in the desired styles, fabrics or colors, or at the prices and volumes we wish to purchase. This could hurt our ability to respond to changing fashion trends and thus our sales and profitability. We have been reducing the number of vendors with which we do business and anticipate continuing this process. As we continue to do so, the risks associated with a vendor ceasing to sell to us may increase. In addition, an increase in our direct-sourcing of merchandise from international vendors could cause our existing domestic vendors to reduce or eliminate their sales to us. Our manufacturers may be unable to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner or meet our quality standards, which could result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. We purchase apparel and accessories from importers and directly from third-party manufacturers. Similar to most other specialty retailers, we have short selling seasons for much of our inventory. Factors outside of our control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or quality problems, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Substantially all of the materials used to manufacture our merchandise is produced in foreign facilities. This subjects us to the risks of international trade and other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets. Substantially all of our vendors utilize overseas production facilities. The failure of foreign manufacturers to ship materials or products to us in a timely manner could result in our stores lacking needed inventory. Any event causing a disruption of imports, including financial or political instability, currency fluctuations, terrorism or heightened security, trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas or both, political or military conflict involving the United States, or the migration of manufacturers, could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. These adverse impacts may include an increased cost to us, reductions in the supply of merchandise or delays in our manufacturing lead time. We rely on our manufacturers to use acceptable ethical business practices, and if they fail to do so, the Cache brand name could suffer reputational harm and our sales could decline or our inventory supply could be interrupted. We do not control our manufacturers or their labor and other business practices. If one of our manufacturers violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and, consequently, our results of operations. Our plans to increase our direct-sourcing of products sold in our stores may not be successful, which could result in additional costs and manufacturing delays. To the extent that we increase direct-sourcing, interruptions in our direct-sourcing operations could result in lost sales and increased costs. We have limited experience with direct-sourcing, which can supply us merchandise at lower costs. During fiscal 2007, we purchased certain assets of AVD, which has employees with over 30 years experience in design, production and sourcing. During fiscal 2007, we directly sourced approximately 61% of our merchandise. In fiscal 2008, we anticipate 80% of our receipts will be directly sourced. We cannot assure you that direct-sourcing will result in the cost savings we anticipate. Furthermore, we may not be able to effectively cultivate and manage these direct relationships with manufacturers, which could result in additional costs and manufacturing delays. To the extent that we are successful in significantly increasing direct-sourcing, we will be further subject to risks associated with doing business in foreign markets. Interruptions in our direct-sourcing operations could disrupt manufacturing, shipment or receipt of our merchandise, which could result in lost sales and increase our costs. Increasing our direct-sourcing could adversely affect our relationships with our existing domestic vendors. We rely on third parties to distribute our merchandise. If these third parties do not adequately perform this function, our business would be disrupted. The efficient operation of our business depends on the ability of our vendors to ship merchandise through third party carriers, such as United Parcel Service, directly to our individual stores. These carriers typically employ personnel represented by labor unions and have experienced labor difficulties in the past. Due to our reliance on these parties for our shipments, interruptions in the ability of our vendors to ship our merchandise or the ability of carriers to fulfill the distribution of merchandise to our stores could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The increase in fuel prices may also increase our shipping costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 The raw materials used to manufacture our products and our distribution and labor costs are subject to availability constraints and price volatility, which could result in increased costs. The raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for petroleum-based synthetic fabrics, weather, supply conditions, regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. In addition, our transportation and labor costs are subject to price volatility caused by the price of oil, supply of labor, regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, distribution services and labor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our Cache brand is associated with all of our merchandise, our success depends heavily on the value associated with our brand. If the value associated with our brand were to diminish, our sales could decrease, causing losses or lower profits. Our success depends on our Cache brand and its value. The Cache name is integral to our business, as well as to the implementation of our new Cache Luxe concept. The Cache brand could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers. There can be no assurance that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and proprietary rights of others. Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may be unable to successfully resolve those types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Any material disruption of our information systems could disrupt our business and reduce our sales. Our information systems integrate all major aspects of our business, including sales, finance, distribution, purchasing, inventory control and merchandise planning. We have completed the rollout of a new upgraded POS system to all of our stores and installation of a wide area network that allows us to add functionality to our POS system, including the ability to process debit card transactions at lower rates, centralize credit authorizations, enhance labor scheduling, centralize our customer database, introduce our customer loyalty program, speed up customer transaction time and analyze real-time sales data. We are increasingly dependent on these information systems for the efficient operation of our business, including our web site, and to facilitate the enhancement of our marketing efforts. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer "hackers" or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by any failure on our part to successfully maintain or perform additional upgrades to our systems, could cause information to be lost or delay our ability to process and make use of that information in our business, which may lead to declines in sales. In addition, if future changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our current information systems prove to be inadequate to support our growth, we could lose customers. 14 Our marketing efforts rely upon the effective use of customer information. Restrictions on the availability or use of customer information could adversely affect our marketing program, which could result in lost sales and a decrease in profits. We use our Cache Accents loyalty program database to market to our customers. We expanded the use of our customer database after implementing our customer loyalty program, which occurred during May 2007. Any limitations imposed on the use of such consumer data, whether imposed by federal or state governments or business partners, could have an adverse effect on our future marketing activity. In addition, to the extent our security procedures and protection of customer information prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation, which could expose us to liability and cause damage to our reputation or brand. We are subject to numerous regulations that could affect our operations. Changes in such regulations could impact the operation of our business through delayed shipments of our goods, fines or penalties that could affect our profitability. We are subject to customs, truth-in-advertising, truth-in-lending and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances, that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise, the use of proprietary credit cards and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. Although we undertake to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by our employees, importers, buying agents, manufacturers or distributors, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to ever-changing fashion trends and customer demands. Customer tastes and fashion trends change rapidly. Our success depends in large part on our ability to anticipate the fashion tastes of our customers, to respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer demands, and to translate market trends into fashionable merchandise on a timely basis. If we are unable to anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, our sales may decline and we may be faced with excess inventories. If this occurs, we may be forced to rely on additional markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow moving inventory. This could also cause us to miss opportunities. Both of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we misjudge fashion tastes and our customers come to believe that we are no longer able to offer fashions that appeal to them, our brand image may suffer. We may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. The women's apparel market is highly competitive, fragmented and characterized by low barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including traditional department stores, national and local specialty retail stores, internet-based retailers and mail order retailers. Many of our competitors, particularly traditional department stores and national specialty retail stores, are larger and have greater resources to expend on marketing and advertising campaigns. In addition, many of these competitors are already established in markets that we have not yet penetrated and have greater name recognition in general. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in competing against existing or future competitors. Our expansion into markets served by our competitors or entry of new competitors or expansion of existing competitors into our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Our sales fluctuate on a seasonal basis and are sensitive to economic conditions and consumer spending patterns, leaving our operating results particularly susceptible to changes in shopping patterns. Our net sales and net income are generally highest each year during our fourth fiscal quarter (October, November and December) and lowest in our third fiscal quarter (July, August and September). Sales during any period cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our annual results. Any significant decrease in sales during the fourth quarter in a given year would hurt our profitability. Our business is also sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions and consumer spending patterns. Our growth, sales and profitability may be adversely affected by the timing of holidays, unfavorable local, regional, national or international economic and other conditions, including rising energy prices, climatological events such as hurricanes, or the effects of war, terrorism or the threat of either of these events. If new legislation restricting the importation or increasing the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad is enacted, our business could be adversely affected. Legislation that would restrict the importation or increase the cost of textiles and apparel produced abroad has been periodically introduced in Congress. The enactment of new legislation or international trade regulation, or executive action affecting international textile or trade agreements, could adversely affect our business. International trade agreements that can provide for tariffs and/or quotas can increase the cost and limit the amount of product that can be imported. The quota system established by the World Trade Organization ("WTO") was eliminated on December 31, 2004. We cannot be certain of the full impact that this elimination will have on international trade in general and the apparel industry in particular. We also cannot be certain of the impact of quota elimination on our business, including increased competition that could result from the importation of an increasing amount of lower priced apparel into the United States. Notwithstanding quota elimination, China's accession agreement for membership in the WTO provides that WTO member countries, including the United States, may re-impose safeguard quotas on specific products. In May 2005, the United States imposed unilateral quotas on several product categories, limiting growth in imports of these categories to 7.5% a year. The safeguard quotas in several categories have been extended by the United States government and will likely continue through 2009. These limitations apply to a limited number of products imported by us from China. We are unable to assess the potential for additional action by the United States government with respect to these or other product categories in the event that the quantity of imported apparel significantly disrupts the apparel market in the United States. Additional action by the United States in response to a disruption in its apparel markets could limit our ability to import apparel and increase our costs. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our share price has fluctuated significantly and could continue to fluctuate significantly. Between January 1, 2006 and December 29, 2007, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $9.70 to $25.72 per share. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market price for our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors, including: •Periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or other companies in the retail industry; •A shortfall in net sales or net income from that expected in securities analysts' estimates or from that expected by investors; •The timing of new store openings and net sales contributed by new stores; •Material announcements by us or our competitors; •Public sales of a substantial number of common shares and •Adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. 16 In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their shares have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we become involved in a securities class action litigation in the future, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and resources, thus harming our business. Provisions of our governing documents and Florida law could discourage acquisition proposals or delay a change in our control, and this may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or deny our stockholders a chance to realize a premium on their shares. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions, including those listed below, that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders: •our board of directors has the authority to issue common stock and preferred stock and to determine the price, rights and preferences of any new series of preferred stock without further stockholder approval; and •there are limitations on who can call special meetings of stockholders. In addition, provisions of Florida law and our stock option plans may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or unsolicited acquisition proposals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 