Risk Factors All phases of our operations are subject to significant uncertainties, risks, and other influences. Known material risks and other important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from anticipated results or other expectations are discussed below: RISKS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS The failure to maintain our safety record would seriously harm our ability to attract new customers and maintain our existing customers. A favorable safety record is one of the primary factors a customer reviews in selecting an aviation provider. If we fail to maintain our safety and reliability record, our ability to attract new customers and maintain our current customers will be materially adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents Helicopter operations involve risks that may not be covered by our insurance or may increase the cost of our insurance. The operation of helicopters inherently involves a high degree of risk. Hazards such as aircraft accidents, collisions, fire and adverse weather are hazards that must be managed by providers of helicopter services and may result in loss of life, serious injury to employees and third parties, and losses of equipment and revenues. We maintain hull and liability insurance on our aircraft, which insures us against physical loss of, or damage to, our aircraft and against certain legal liabilities to others. In addition, we carry war risk, expropriation, confiscation and nationalization insurance for our aircraft involved in international operations. In some instances, we are covered by indemnity agreements from our customers in lieu of, or in addition to, our insurance. Our aircraft are not insured for loss of use. While we believe that our insurance and indemnification arrangements provide reasonable protection for most foreseeable losses, they do not cover all potential losses and are subject to deductibles, retentions, coverage limits and coverage exceptions such that severe casualty losses, or the expropriation or confiscation of significant assets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our operations are affected by adverse weather conditions and seasonal factors. We are subject to weather-related or seasonal factors, including primarily: • poor weather conditions that often prevail during winter but can develop in any season; • the tropical storm and hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico; and • reduced daylight hours during the winter months. Poor visibility, high winds and heavy precipitation can affect the operation of helicopters and significantly reduce our flight hours. A significant portion of our operating revenue is dependent on actual flight hours and a substantial portion of our direct costs is fixed. Thus, prolonged periods of adverse weather can materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and net earnings. In the Gulf of Mexico, the months of December, January and February generally have more days of adverse weather conditions than the other months of the year. Also, June through November is tropical storm and hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico, with August and September typically being the most active months. During tropical storms, we are unable to operate in the area of the storm and can incur significant expense in moving our aircraft to safer locations. In addition, as most of our facilities are located along the Gulf of Mexico coast, tropical storms and hurricanes may cause substantial damage to our property, including helicopters that we are unable to relocate. Because the fall and winter months have fewer hours of daylight, our flight hours are generally lower at those times, which typically results in a reduction in operating revenues during those months. Currently, only 89 of the 165 helicopters used in our oil and gas operations are equipped to fly under instrument flight rules (“IFR”), which enables these aircraft, when manned by IFR-rated pilots and co-pilots, to operate when poor visibility or darkness prevents flight by aircraft that can fly only under VFR. Not all of our pilots are IFR rated. Our helicopters may not always be profitably deployed. We are exposed to the risk that our helicopters may not always be profitably deployed. Customers often require a specific type of helicopter, which may be different from those in our fleet. Our contract terms generally are too short to recover our cost of purchasing a helicopter, subjecting us to the risk that we will be unable to recoup our investment in the helicopter. Helicopters we acquire may not be covered by customer contracts when they are placed into service. Once a new helicopter is delivered to us, we generally spend between two and three months installing mission-specific and/or customer-specific equipment before we place it into service. As a result, there can be a significant delay between the delivery date for a new helicopter and the time that it is able to generate revenues for us. 6 Table of Contents We may not be able to find alternative profitable uses for helicopters no longer under contract. If we cannot find an acceptably profitable use for a helicopter, or if a helicopter no longer meets our strategic objectives, including due to age, we may sell it. Prices in the used helicopter market have been volatile over time, and we may incur gains or losses from the sale of helicopters. Inability to profitably deploy helicopters in our fleet may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. Our contracts generally can be terminated or downsized by our customers without penalty. Most of our fixed-term contracts contain provisions permitting early termination by the customer, sometimes with as little as 30 days’ notice for any reason and generally without penalty. In addition, many of our contracts permit our customers to decrease the number of aircraft under contract with a corresponding decrease in the fixed monthly payments without penalty. As a result, undue reliance should not be placed on our customer contracts or the terms of those contracts. The helicopter services business is highly competitive. All segments of our business are highly competitive. Many of our contracts are awarded after competitive bidding, and the competition for those contracts generally is intense. The principal aspects of competition are safety, price, reliability, availability and service. We have two major competitors and several small competitors operating in the Gulf of Mexico, and most of our customers and potential customers could operate their own helicopter fleets if they chose to do so. Our Air Medical segment competes for business primarily under the independent provider model and, to a lesser extent, under the hospital-based model. Under the independent provider model, we have no contracts and no fixed revenue stream, but must compete for transport referrals on a daily basis with other independent operators in the area. Under the hospital-based model, we contract directly with the hospital to provide their transportation services, with the contracts typically awarded on a competitive bid basis. Under both models, we compete against national and regional companies, and there is usually more than one competitor in each local market. In addition, we compete against hospitals that operate their own helicopters and, in some cases, against ground ambulances as well. We depend on a small number of helicopter manufacturers for our supply of new helicopters. There are a small number of helicopter manufacturers that can meet our needs for new aircraft to expand our fleet or replace aircraft that no longer meet our needs. If we are unable to obtain aircraft from these manufacturers with delivery dates, prices and other terms acceptable to us, our profitability and growth prospects could be adversely impacted, and the impact may be material. We require aircraft components and parts for the maintenance and repair of aircraft, and supply constraints or cost increases could adversely affect our business. Our ability to maintain and repair our aircraft depends on our ability to obtain a supply of aircraft components and parts. If we are unable to perform timely maintenance and repairs, our aircraft may be unable to meet contract demands or may be underutilized, which would have an adverse impact on our financial performance. In addition, obtaining supplies of aircraft components and parts can be more challenging in our foreign operations. Supply constraints or supplier cost increases for important aircraft components and parts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Air Medical operations expose us to numerous special risks, including collection risks and potential medical malpractice claims. Our Air Medical operations are highly competitive and expose us to a number of risks that we do not encounter in our oil and gas operations. For instance, the fees for our air medical services generally are paid by individual patients, insurance companies, or government agencies such as Medicare and Medicaid. As a result, our profitability in this business depends not only on our ability to generate an acceptable volume of patient transports, but also on our ability to collect our transport fees. We are not permitted to refuse service to patients based on their inability to pay. 7 Table of Contents We employ paramedics, nurses, and other medical professionals for these operations, which can give rise to medical malpractice claims against us, which, if not fully covered by our medical malpractice insurance, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increased governmental regulations could increase our costs or reduce our ability to operate successfully. Our operations are regulated by a number of federal and state agencies. All of our flight operations are regulated by the FAA. Aircraft accidents are subject to the jurisdiction of the National Transportation Safety Board. Standards relating to workplace health and safety are monitored by OSHA. We are also subject to various federal and state healthcare-related laws and regulations. The FAA has jurisdiction over many aspects of our business, including personnel, aircraft and ground facilities. We are required to have an Air Taxi Certificate, granted by the FAA, to transport personnel and property in our helicopters. This certificate contains operating specifications that allow us to conduct our present operations, but it is potentially subject to amendment, suspension or revocation in accordance with procedures set forth in the Federal Aviation Act. The FAA conducts regular inspections regarding the safety, training and general regulatory compliance of our U.S. aviation operations. Additionally, the FAA requires us to file reports confirming our continued compliance. FAA regulations require that at least 75% of our voting securities be owned or controlled by citizens of the U.S. or one of its possessions, and that our president and at least two-thirds of our directors be U.S. citizens. Our Chief Executive Officer and six of our seven directors are U.S. citizens, and our organizational documents provide for the automatic reduction in voting power of each share of voting common stock owned or controlled by a non-U.S. citizen if necessary to comply with these regulations. We are subject to significant regulatory oversight by OSHA and similar state agencies. We are also subject to the Communications Act of 1934 because of our ownership and operation of a radio communications flight-following network throughout the Gulf of Mexico. Numerous other federal statutes and rules regulate our offshore operations and those of our customers, pursuant to which the federal government has the ability to suspend, curtail or modify certain or all offshore operations. A suspension or substantial curtailment of offshore oil and gas operations for any prolonged period would have an immediate and materially adverse effect on us. A substantial modification of current offshore operations could adversely affect the economics of such operations and result in reduced demand for our services. Our air medical operations are also subject to healthcare-related laws and regulations, including those related to Medicare and Medicaid compliance and the privacy and security rules of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended. Our operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Inherent in our business is the risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities due to our handling of petroleum products and generated wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and as a result of historical operations and waste disposal practices. Environmental laws and regulations generally require us to obtain permits such as air emissions and wastewater permits before regulated activities commence, require us to remain in compliance with the permits, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment in connection with regulated activities, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or the terms or conditions of required environmental permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations or corrective actions, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that have been used for many years by persons, including us, for various aviation operational support and maintenance activities. Petroleum products and wastes may have been disposed or released on or under properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where we have arranged for such petroleum products or wastes to be taken for disposal or recycling. In addition, many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of 8 Table of Contents petroleum products or wastes was not under our control. Because operating and maintaining helicopters causes us to generate, handle and dispose of materials that may be classified as “hazardous substances,” “hazardous wastes,” or other types of regulated materials, we may incur joint and several, strict liability under applicable federal laws, including the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, also referred to as the Superfund law and the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, restore affected properties, or undertake measures to prevent future contamination. In addition, future spills or releases of regulated substances or the discovery of currently unknown contamination could expose us to material losses, expenditures and environmental liabilities, including liabilities resulting from lawsuits brought by private litigants or neighboring property owners or operators for personal injury or property damage related to our operations or the land on which our operations are conducted. We generally cannot recover these costs from insurance. Changes in environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly pollution control equipment, waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements or other unforeseen liabilities could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. For example, the U.S. Congress has considered, and almost one-half of the states have pursued regulatory initiatives designed to restrict the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases that may contribute to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse cap and trade programs. Any adoption of laws or regulations that limits emissions of greenhouse gases from equipment or operations could result in increased costs to reduce such emissions from our operations as well as those of our customers, and could adversely affect demand for our services. New and proposed health care legislation and regulation could have a material impact on our business. On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) became law, enacting comprehensive health care reform in the United States. The legislation aims to expand health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans, and, among other things, expands Medicaid, requires U.S. citizens and legal residents to have health insurance coverage or pay a tax penalty, and assesses fees on employers who do not offer qualifying coverage to employees. The legislation also has provisions aimed at controlling health care costs. With respect to our Air Medical operations, we may see a decrease in reimbursement amounts from Medicaid, Medicare and commercial insurance payors, but may also see an increase in payments from individuals who were previously uninsured. Federal and state governments may propose and adopt other health care initiatives or changes to current laws and regulations, the impact of which cannot be predicted. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and if we fail to comply with these laws and government regulations, we could incur penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and closely scrutinized by federal, state and local governments. Comprehensive statutes and regulations govern the manner in which we provide and bill for services, our contractual relationships with our vendors and customers, our marketing activities and other aspects of our operations. Some of these laws are described below. Failure to comply with these laws can result in civil and criminal penalties such as fines, damages and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are sometimes open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. The laws, regulations and standards governing the provision of healthcare services may change significantly in the future. We cannot assure you that any new or changed healthcare laws, regulations or standards will not materially adversely affect our business. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to comprehensive and complex laws and rules that govern the manner in which we bill and are paid for our services by third party payors, and the failure to comply with these rules, or allegations that we have failed to do so, can result in civil or criminal sanctions, including exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Like most healthcare providers, the majority of our services are paid for by private and governmental third party payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These third party payors typically have differing and complex billing and documentation requirements that we must meet in order to receive payment for our services. Reimbursement to us is typically conditioned on our providing the correct codes and properly documenting the services themselves, including the level of service provided, the medical necessity for the services and the site of service. We must also comply with numerous other laws applicable to our documentation and the claims we submit for payment, including but not limited to (1) “coordination of benefits” rules that dictate which payor we must bill first when a patient has potential coverage from multiple payors; (2) requirements that we obtain the signature of the patient or patient representative, or, in certain cases, alternative documentation, prior to submitting a claim; (3) requirements that we make repayment to any payor which pays us more than the amount to which we are entitled; (4) requirements that we bill a hospital, rather than Medicare, for certain ambulance transports provided to Medicare patients of such facilities; (5) requirements that our electronic claims for payment be submitted using certain standardized transaction codes and formats; and (6) laws requiring us to handle all health and financial information of our patients in a manner that complies with specified security and privacy standards. Governmental and private third party payors and other enforcement agencies carefully audit and monitor our compliance with these and other applicable rules. Our failure to comply with the billing and other rules applicable to us could result in non-payment for services rendered or refunds of amounts previously paid for such services. In addition, non-compliance with these rules may cause us to incur civil and criminal penalties, including fines and exclusion from government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, under a number of state and federal laws. These laws include the federal False Claims Act, the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and other provisions of federal, state and local law. The federal False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute were both recently amended in a manner which makes it easier for the government to demonstrate that a violation has occurred. The laws, regulations and standards governing the provision of healthcare services may change significantly in the future. Under federal privacy law, as recently amended, we are subject to more stringent penalties in the event we improperly use or disclose protected health information regarding our patients. The Administrative Simplification Provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, required the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, to adopt standards to protect the privacy and security of certain health-related information. The HIPAA privacy regulations contain detailed requirements concerning the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information by “covered entities,” which includes our Air Medical operations. In addition to the privacy requirements, HIPAA covered entities must implement certain administrative, physical, and technical security standards to protect the integrity, confidentiality and availability of certain electronic health information received, maintained, or transmitted by covered entities or their business associates. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, enacted on February 18, 2009, included the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act, which modified the HIPAA legislation significantly in a manner that increases both the risk and consequences of enforcement. Violations of the HIPAA privacy and security standards, as amended by the HITECH Act, may result in civil and criminal penalties. The civil penalties range from $100 to $50,000 per violation, with a cap of $1.5 million per year for violations of the same standard during the same calendar year. However, a single breach incident can result in violations of multiple standards. We must also comply with certain “breach notification” regulations, which implement certain provisions of the HITECH Act. Under these regulations, in addition to reasonable remediation, covered entities must promptly notify affected individuals in the case of a breach of “unsecured protected health information” as defined by HHS guidance. In addition, notification must be provided to the HHS Secretary and the media in cases where a breach affects more than 500 individuals. Breaches affecting fewer than 500 individuals must be reported to the HHS Secretary on an annual basis. 10 Table of Contents Many states in which we operate also have state laws that protect the privacy and security of confidential, personal information. These laws may be similar to or even more protective than the federal provisions. Not only may some of these state laws impose fines and penalties upon violators, but some may afford private rights of action to individuals who believe their personal information has been misused. California’s patient privacy laws, for example, provide for penalties of up to $250,000 and permit injured parties to sue for damages. Our relationships with our vendors and customers, and our marketing practices, are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. We are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of “remuneration” in return for, or to induce, the referral of business or ordering of services paid for by Medicare or other federal programs. “Remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to mean anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, credit arrangement and in-kind goods or services, as well as cash. Certain federal courts have held that the Anti-Kickback Statute can be violated if “one purpose” of a payment is to induce referrals. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in imprisonment, civil or criminal fines or exclusion from Medicare and other governmental programs. The PPACA amended the Anti-kickback Statute in a manner that makes it easier for the government to demonstrate intent to violate the statute, which is an element of a violation. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply to referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any payor, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and do not contain identical safe harbors. The federal False Claims Act is used frequently by the government and private parties against healthcare providers in challenging the accuracy of their claims for reimbursement and other conduct related to such claims. The federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The qui tam provision of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third party payor and not merely a federal healthcare program. There are many potential bases for liability under these false claim statutes. Liability arises, primarily, when an entity knowingly submits, or causes another to submit, a False claim for reimbursement. Pursuant to changes made by PPACA, a claim resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute can constitute a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and regulatory uncertainty. Our international operations represented approximately 4% of our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012; however, we are actively pursuing international opportunities, and often in lesser developed countries. As of December 31, 2012, we operated five aircraft in West Africa and 9 aircraft in the Middle East, including four in Saudi Arabia. International operations, particularly in lesser developed countries, are subject to a number of risks, including: • political, social and economic instability; • terrorism, kidnapping and extortion; • potential seizure or nationalization of assets; • import-export quotas; and • currency fluctuations or devaluation. 11 Table of Contents Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by government regulation, including regulations requiring: • the awarding of contracts to local contractors; • the employment of local citizens; and • the establishment of foreign subsidiaries with significant ownership positions reserved by the foreign government for local ownership. In our foreign operations, we are subject to a number of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those relating to export control and anti-boycott laws as well as anti-bribery and anti-corruption, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any violation of such laws may result in severe penalties. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect us. Our ability to attract and retain qualified pilots, mechanics, nurses, paramedics and other highly trained personnel will be an important factor in determining our future success. Many of our customers require pilots of aircraft that service them to have inordinately high levels of flight experience. The market for these experienced and highly trained personnel is extremely competitive. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain such persons. Some of our pilots and mechanics, and those of our competitors, are members of the U.S. military reserves and could be called to active duty. If significant numbers of such persons are called to active duty, it would reduce the supply of such workers, possibly curtailing our operations and likely increasing our labor costs. RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR COMPANY The Macondo incident had a substantial adverse effect on our business and any significant development adversely impacting deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico would adversely affect us. Our business is highly dependent on the offshore oil and gas industry, with approximately 66% of our total 2012 operating revenue attributable to helicopter support for offshore oil and gas exploration and production companies, substantially all of which was in the Gulf of Mexico. Of this revenue, approximately 62% was attributable to deepwater operations. Many of the helicopters we have purchased recently are larger aircraft intended to service deepwater activities, and the margins we earn on these aircraft are generally higher than on smaller aircraft. In addition, we derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major and independent oil and gas companies. In April 2010, the Deepwater Horizon rig, engaged in deepwater drilling operations at BP’s Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico, sank after a blowout, resulting in the discharge of substantial amounts of oil until mid-July 2010 when the flow of oil was stopped. The U.S. Department of Interior imposed a moratorium on deepwater drilling from May through October 2010. Since approximately April/May 2011, there has generally been gradual improvement in the number of deepwater drilling permits issued by the Department of Interior that affect our customers. Deepwater drilling reached pre-Macondo levels around September 2011. Although we experienced some increased flight activity during the clean-up effort in the second and third quarters of 2010, the Macondo incident had a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first half of 2011. Any significant development adversely impacting deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on the offshore oil and gas industry, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. Approximately 66% of our 2012 operating revenue was attributable to helicopter support for offshore oil and gas exploration and production companies, substantially all of which was in the Gulf of Mexico. Our business is highly dependent on the level of activity by oil and gas companies, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. The level of activity by our customers operating in the Gulf of Mexico depends on factors that we cannot control, such as: 12 Table of Contents • the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas and market expectations regarding supply and demand; • weather-related or other natural causes; • actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, and Middle Eastern and other oil producing countries, to control prices or change production levels; • the extent to which increased government regulation or other factors may impose increased costs, including as a result of the Macondo incident, as discussed above; • general economic conditions in the United States and worldwide; • war, civil unrest or terrorist activities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of oil and natural gas could depress the level of helicopter activity in support of exploration and production activity, and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the Gulf of Mexico is generally considered to be a mature area for oil and gas exploration, which may result in a continuing decrease in activity over time. This could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the concentrated nature of our operations subjects us to the risk that a regional event could cause a significant interruption in our operations or otherwise have a material effect on our profitability. Moreover, companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry continually seek to implement cost-savings measures. As part of these measures, oil and gas companies have attempted to improve operating efficiencies with respect to helicopter support services. For example, certain oil and gas companies have pooled helicopter services among operators, reduced staffing levels by using technology to permit unmanned production installations and decreased the frequency of transportation of employees offshore by increasing the lengths of shifts offshore. The continued implementation of such measures could reduce demand for helicopter services and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our financial condition. We depend on a small number of large oil and gas industry customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and our credit exposure within this industry is significant. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major and independent oil and gas companies. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 28% of our operating revenues were attributable to our two largest customers, Shell and BP, accounting for 15% and 13%, respectively. The loss of one of our significant customers, if not offset by revenues from new or other existing customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, this concentration of customers may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. Our domestic pilot workforce is represented by the OPEIU although the Company and the Union do not have a current agreed upon collective bargaining agreement and the Company, the Union and individual pilots are engaged in litigation. We are involved in Federal Court litigation in the Western District of Louisiana and the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals with the Office and Professional Employees International Union (“OPEIU”), the union representing our domestic pilots. For additional information, see Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. We must obtain additional financing in order to fund our aircraft purchase and other obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had obligations related to aircraft purchase commitments totaling approximately $167.9 million due in 2013, along with other significant contractual obligations described in this report. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $53.4 million in cash and short-term investments and $13.2 million available under our $100.0 million revolving credit facility. In January 2013, our revolving credit facility was 13 Table of Contents amended to increase the maximum borrowing capacity to $125 million. We intend to seek to obtain operating leases and/or additional debt financing to fund these obligations. We have no current commitments or arrangements with respect to such financing, and no assurances can be given that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain such financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness and operating lease commitments could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. We are a highly leveraged company and, as a result, have significant debt service obligations. We also have significant operating lease commitments and, as a result, have significant rent expense. As of December 31, 2012, our total indebtedness was $386.8 million, consisting of $300 million of our 8.625% Senior Notes due 2018 and $86.8 million borrowed under our $100.0 million revolving credit facility, which matures in September 2014. In January 2013, the maximum borrowing capacity of the revolving credit facility was increased from $100 million to $125 million. We have a separate letter of credit facility that had $14.7 million outstanding at December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $218.3 million in aggregate commitments under aircraft and other operating leases, of which approximately $43.1 million is payable through December 31, 2013. The total lease commitments include $198.7 million for aircraft and $19.6 million for facility lease commitments, primarily for our facilities in Lafayette, Louisiana. The degree to which we are leveraged or may become leveraged in the future could have important consequences to our equity and debt holders, including: • we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, and make lease payments on our operating leases, thereby reducing funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; • it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in our industry or business or to general adverse economic and financial market conditions; and • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired. Our ability to meet our debt obligations, lease commitments and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations and lease obligations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to pay our obligations under our operating leases, and to fund planned capital expenditures, including purchases of aircraft under purchase options, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to conditions in the oil and gas industry, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico, and to general economic and financial conditions, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt and operating lease obligations, or to obtain alternative financings, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer is also one of our principal stockholders and has voting control of the Company. Al A. Gonsoulin, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns stock representing approximately 70.3% of our total voting power and 18.3% of our total outstanding shares of voting and non-voting common stock as of December 31, 2012. As a result, he exercises control over the election of all of our directors and the outcome of all matters requiring a stockholder vote. This ownership also may delay or prevent a change in our management or a change in control of us, even if such changes would benefit our other stockholders and were supported by a majority of our stockholders. 14 Table of Contents Provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws and Louisiana law make it more difficult to effect a change in control of us, which could discourage a takeover of our company and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Although an attempted takeover of our company is unlikely by virtue of the ownership by our Chief Executive Officer of more than 50% of the total voting power of our capital stock, there are also provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our company’s securities at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to you. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our by-laws, such as giving the board the exclusive right to fill all board vacancies, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. In addition to the provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and by-laws, the Louisiana Business Corporation Law (“LBCL”), includes certain provisions applicable to Louisiana corporations, such as us, which may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect. Such provisions give stockholders the right to receive the fair value of their shares of stock following a control transaction from a controlling person or group and set forth requirements relating to certain business combinations. Our descriptions of these provisions are only abbreviated summaries of detailed and complex statutes. For a complete understanding of the statutes, you should read them in their entirety. The LBCL’s control share acquisition statute provides that any person who acquires “control shares” will be able to vote such shares only if the right to vote is approved by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of both (i) all the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders and (ii) all the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders excluding “interested shares.” The control share acquisition statute permits the articles of incorporation or by-laws of a company to exclude from the statute’s application acquisitions occurring after the adoption of the exclusion. Our by-laws do contain such an exclusion; however, our board of directors or stockholders, by an amendment to our by-laws, could reverse this exclusion. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if we experience an ownership change. As described in Note 8 – Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K, we have substantial net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) available to offset future taxable income. Our ability to use our federal NOLs could be substantially limited if we were to experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”). Generally, an ownership change occurs when the percentage of a corporation’s stock (by value) owned by all of the corporation’s 5% shareholders (as determined pursuant to the IRC), as a group, has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock (by value) owned by the 5% shareholders, as a group, at any time during the past three years. A corporation must test to determine whether it has had an ownership change on any date that a 5% shareholder acquires stock. Changes in ownership of our stock are generally not within our control. If an ownership change were to occur, the use of our federal NOLs would be subject to an annual limit, generally equal to the value of the company multiplied by the long-term tax exempt rate, which could substantially limit our ability to use the NOLs each year and could results in NOLs expiring unused. Use of our state NOLs may also be limited by an ownership change. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 