ITEM 1A. Risk Factors All phases of our operations are subject to significant uncertainties, risks, and other influences. Known material risks and other important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from anticipated results or other expectations are discussed below: 5 Table of Contents RISKS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS The failure to maintain our safety record would seriously harm our ability to attract new customers and maintain our existing customers. A favorable safety record is one of the primary factors a customer reviews in selecting an aviation provider. If we fail to maintain our safety and reliability record, our ability to attract new customers and maintain our current customers will be materially adversely affected. Helicopter operations involve risks that may not be covered by our insurance or may increase the cost of our insurance. The operation of helicopters inherently involves a high degree of risk. Hazards such as aircraft accidents, collisions, fire and adverse weather are hazards that must be managed by providers of helicopter services and may result in loss of life, serious injury to employees and third parties, and losses of equipment and revenues. We maintain hull and liability insurance on our aircraft, which insures us against physical loss of, or damage to, our aircraft and against certain legal liabilities to others. In addition, we carry war risk, expropriation, confiscation and nationalization insurance for our aircraft involved in international operations. In some instances, we are covered by indemnity agreements from our customers in lieu of, or in addition to, our insurance. Our aircraft are not insured for loss of use. While we believe that our insurance and indemnification arrangements provide reasonable protection for most foreseeable losses, they do not cover all potential losses and are subject to deductibles, retentions, coverage limits and coverage exceptions such that severe casualty losses, or the expropriation or confiscation of significant assets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our operations are affected by adverse weather conditions and seasonal factors. We are subject to three types of weather-related or seasonal factors: • poor weather conditions that often prevail during winter but can develop in any season; • the tropical storm and hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico; and • reduced daylight hours during the winter months. Poor visibility, high winds and heavy precipitation can affect the operation of helicopters and significantly reduce our flight hours. A significant portion of our operating revenue is dependent on actual flight hours and a substantial portion of our direct costs is fixed. Thus, prolonged periods of adverse weather can materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and net earnings. In the Gulf of Mexico, the months of December, January and February generally have more days of adverse weather conditions than the other months of the year. Also, June through November is tropical storm and hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico, with August and September typically being the most active months. During tropical storms, we are unable to operate in the area of the storm and can incur significant expense in moving our aircraft to safer locations. In addition, as most of our facilities are located along the Gulf of Mexico coast, tropical storms and hurricanes may cause substantial damage to our property, including helicopters that we are unable to relocate. Because the fall and winter months have fewer hours of daylight, our flight hours are generally lower at those times, which typically results in a reduction in operating revenues during those months. Currently, only 79 of the 162 helicopters used in our oil and gas operations are equipped to fly under instrument flight rules (“IFR”), which enables these aircraft, when manned by IFR-rated pilots and co-pilots, to operate 6 Table of Contents when poor visibility or darkness prevents flight by aircraft that can fly only under VFR. Not all of our pilots are IFR rated. Our helicopters may not always be profitably deployed. We are exposed to the risk that our helicopters may not always be profitably deployed. Customers often require a specific type of helicopter, which may be different from those in our fleet. Our contract terms generally are too short to recover our cost of purchasing a helicopter, subjecting us to the risk that we will be unable to recoup our investment in the helicopter. Helicopters we acquire may not be covered by customer contracts when they are placed into service. Once a new helicopter is delivered to us, we generally spend between two and three months installing mission-specific and/or customer-specific equipment before we place it into service. As a result, there can be a significant delay between the delivery date for a new helicopter and the time that it is able to generate revenues for us. We may not be able to find alternative profitable uses for helicopters no longer under contract. For example, in the third quarter of 2010, we entered into a contract to purchase ten medium aircraft related to requirements under a new contract with a customer, which will replace aircraft being used with respect to the current contract over a two-year period. For additional information, see Note 10 to our financial statements included in this report. As a result, we must find alternative profitable uses for the helicopters that will be released under the current contract. If we cannot find an acceptably profitable use for a helicopter, or if a helicopter no longer meets our strategic objectives, including due to age, we may sell it. Prices in the used helicopter market have been volatile over time, and we may incur gains or losses from the sale of helicopters. Inability to profitably deploy helicopters in our fleet may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. Our contracts generally can be terminated or downsized by our customers without penalty. Most of our fixed-term contracts contain provisions permitting early termination by the customer, sometimes with as little as 30 days’ notice for any reason and generally without penalty. In addition, many of our contracts permit our customers to decrease the number of aircraft under contract with a corresponding decrease in the fixed monthly payments without penalty. As a result, undue reliance should not be placed on our customer contracts or the terms of those contracts. The helicopter services business is highly competitive. All segments of our business are highly competitive. Many of our contracts are awarded after competitive bidding, and the competition for those contracts generally is intense. The principal aspects of competition are safety, price, reliability, availability and service. We have two major competitors and several small competitors operating in the Gulf of Mexico, and most of our customers and potential customers could operate their own helicopter fleets if they chose to do so. Our Air Medical segment competes for business primarily under the independent provider model and, to a lesser extent, under the hospital-based model. Under the independent provider model, we have no contracts and no fixed revenue stream, but must compete for transport referrals on a daily basis with other independent operators in the area. Under the hospital-based model, we contract directly with the hospital to provide their transportation services, with the contracts typically awarded on a competitive bid basis. Under both models, we compete against national and regional companies, and there is usually more than one competitor in each local market. In addition, we compete against hospitals that operate their own helicopters and, in some cases, against ground ambulances as well. Our Air Medical operations expose us to numerous special risks, including collection risks and potential medical malpractice claims. Our Air Medical operations are highly competitive and expose us to a number of risks that we do not encounter in our oil and gas operations. For instance, the fees for our air medical services generally are paid by individual patients, insurance companies, or government agencies such as Medicare and Medicaid. As a result, our profitability in this business depends not only on our ability to generate an 7 Table of Contents acceptable volume of patient transports, but also on our ability to collect our transport fees. We are not permitted to refuse service to patients based on their inability to pay. We employ paramedics, nurses, and other medical professionals for these operations, which can give rise to medical malpractice claims against us, which, if not fully covered by our medical malpractice insurance, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increased governmental regulations could increase our costs or reduce our ability to operate successfully. Our operations are regulated by a number of federal and state agencies. All of our flight operations are regulated by the FAA. Aircraft accidents are subject to the jurisdiction of the National Transportation Safety Board. Standards relating to workplace health and safety are monitored by OSHA. We are also subject to various federal and state healthcare-related laws and regulations. The FAA has jurisdiction over many aspects of our business, including personnel, aircraft and ground facilities. We are required to have an Air Taxi Certificate, granted by the FAA, to transport personnel and property in our helicopters. This certificate contains operating specifications that allow us to conduct our present operations, but it is potentially subject to amendment, suspension or revocation in accordance with procedures set forth in the Federal Aviation Act. The FAA conducts regular inspections regarding the safety, training and general regulatory compliance of our U.S. aviation operations. Additionally, the FAA requires us to file reports confirming our continued compliance. FAA regulations require that at least 75% of our voting securities be owned or controlled by citizens of the U.S. or one of its possessions, and that our president and at least two-thirds of our directors be U.S. citizens. Our Chief Executive Officer and all of our directors are U.S. citizens, and our organizational documents provide for the automatic reduction in voting power of each share of voting common stock owned or controlled by a non-U.S. citizen if necessary to comply with these regulations. We are subject to significant regulatory oversight by OSHA and similar state agencies. We are also subject to the Communications Act of 1934 because of our ownership and operation of a radio communications flight-following network throughout the Gulf of Mexico. Numerous other federal statutes and rules regulate our offshore operations and those of our customers, pursuant to which the federal government has the ability to suspend, curtail or modify certain or all offshore operations. A suspension or substantial curtailment of offshore oil and gas operations for any prolonged period would have an immediate and materially adverse effect on us. A substantial modification of current offshore operations could adversely affect the economics of such operations and result in reduced demand for our services. Our air medical operations are also subject to healthcare-related laws and regulations, including those related to Medicare and Medicaid compliance and the privacy and security rules of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended. Our operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Inherent in our business is the risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities due to our handling of petroleum products and generated wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and as a result of historical operations and waste disposal practices. Environmental laws and regulations generally require us to obtain permits such as air emissions and wastewater permits before regulated activities commence, require us to remain in compliance with the permits, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment in connection with regulated activities, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or the terms or conditions of required environmental permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations or corrective actions, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. 8 Table of Contents We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that have been used for many years by persons, including us, for various aviation operational support and maintenance activities. Petroleum products and wastes may have been disposed or released on or under properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where we have arranged for such petroleum products or wastes to be taken for disposal or recycling. In addition, many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum products or wastes was not under our control. Because operating and maintaining helicopters causes us to generate, handle and dispose of materials that may be classified as “hazardous substances,” “hazardous wastes,” or other types of regulated materials, we may incur joint and several, strict liability under applicable federal laws, including the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, also referred to as the Superfund law and the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, restore affected properties, or undertake measures to prevent future contamination. In addition, future spills or releases of regulated substances or the discovery of currently unknown contamination could expose us to material losses, expenditures and environmental liabilities, including liabilities resulting from lawsuits brought by private litigants or neighboring property owners or operators for personal injury or property damage related to our operations or the land on which our operations are conducted. We generally cannot recover these costs from insurance. Changes in environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly pollution control equipment, waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements or other unforeseen liabilities could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. For example, the U.S. Congress has considered, and almost one-half of the states have pursued regulatory initiatives designed to restrict the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases that may contribute to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse cap and trade programs. Any adoption of laws or regulations that limits emissions of greenhouse gases from equipment or operations could result in increased costs to reduce such emissions from our operations as well as those of our customers, and could adversely affect demand for our services. New and proposed health care legislation and regulation could have a material impact on our business. On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became law, enacting comprehensive health care reform in the United States. Many provisions of the law that could impact our business will not become effective until 2014 or later, and require implementation through regulations that have not yet been promulgated. Accordingly, we are currently evaluating the new legislation and cannot predict with any certainty what the potential impact of the new law will be on our business. The legislation aims to expand health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans, and, among other things, expands Medicaid, requires U.S. citizens and legal residents to have health insurance coverage or pay a tax penalty, and assesses fees on employers who do not offer qualifying coverage to employees. The legislation also has provisions aimed at controlling health care costs. With respect to our Air Medical operations, we may see a decrease in reimbursement amounts from Medicaid, Medicare and commercial insurance payors, but may also see an increase in payments from individuals who were previously uninsured. Federal and state governments may propose and adopt other health care initiatives or changes to current laws and regulations, the impact of which cannot be predicted. New and proposed health care legislation and regulation could increase the cost of providing medical benefits to employees, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Recently passed legislation, described above, and future proposed legislation and regulation, could increase the cost of providing medical insurance to our employees. The cost and other effects, which may include the cost of compliance and cost of insurance, cannot be determined with certainty. If our costs increase and we are unable to pass the costs to our customers, there may be a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our international operations are subject to political, economic and regulatory uncertainty. Our international operations represented approximately 2% of our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010; however, we often consider international opportunities, particularly in our Oil and Gas segment, and often in lesser developed countries, and we are currently negotiating a joint venture in Brazil. International operations, particularly in lesser developed countries, are subject to a number of risks, including: • political, social and economic instability; • terrorism, kidnapping and extortion; • potential seizure or nationalization of assets; • import-export quotas; and • currency fluctuations or devaluation. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by government regulation, including regulations requiring: • the awarding of contracts to local contractors; • the employment of local citizens; and • the establishment of foreign subsidiaries with significant ownership positions reserved by the foreign government for local ownership. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect us. Our ability to attract and retain qualified pilots, mechanics, nurses, paramedics and other highly trained personnel will be an important factor in determining our future success. Many of our customers require pilots of aircraft that service them to have inordinately high levels of flight experience. The market for these experienced and highly trained personnel is extremely competitive. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain such persons. Some of our pilots and mechanics, and those of our competitors, are members of the U.S. military reserves and could be called to active duty. If significant numbers of such persons are called to active duty, it would reduce the supply of such workers, possibly curtailing our operations and likely increasing our labor costs. RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR COMPANY The Macondo incident could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is highly dependent on the offshore oil and gas industry, with approximately 67% of our total 2010 operating revenue attributable to helicopter support for offshore oil and gas exploration and production companies, substantially all of which was in the Gulf of Mexico. Of this revenue, approximately 65% was attributable to deepwater operations. Many of the helicopters we have purchased recently are larger aircraft intended to service deepwater activities, and the margins we earn on these aircraft are generally higher than on smaller aircraft. In addition, we derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major and independent oil and gas companies. In April 2010, the Deepwater Horizon rig, engaged in deepwater drilling operations at BP’s Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico, sank after a blowout, resulting in the discharge of substantial amounts of oil until mid-July 2010, the flow of oil was stopped. On May 28, 2010, the Department of Interior imposed a six-month moratorium on offshore deepwater drilling operations, the enforcement of which was preliminarily enjoined, and on July 12, 2010, the Department of Interior imposed another similar moratorium set to expire November 30, 2010. As a result, deepwater drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico were suspended. On October 12, 2010, The Department of Interior lifted the moratorium on 10 Table of Contents deepwater drilling. However, since that date, as a result of regulatory actions by the Department of Interior, there has been a “de facto” moratorium on drilling in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico. It is not possible to estimate whether or when drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico will return to normal activity levels, due to uncertainties surrounding the timing of issuance of drilling permits by the Department of Interior and new regulations related to drilling operations. BP incurred significant costs related to the clean up of and damages caused by the oil spill and stopping the flow of oil from the well. BP is one of our major customers and accounted for approximately 17% and 14% of our total revenues in 2010 and 2009, respectively. As a result of these events, we experienced increased flight activity during the cleanup process. We estimate that the flight hours related to this increased activity were approximately 7% of total flight hours for the period May 2010 through July 2010. Offsetting these increased flight hours are decreased flight hours resulting from the suspension of deepwater drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico. We estimate that the adverse affect to our flight hours related to deepwater drilling rigs that have already demobilized are approximately 500 to 600 flight hours per month, or approximately 5% of Oil and Gas segment flight hours per month. Many of the deepwater drilling rigs we have been servicing are still on location (although not drilling), and therefore we are still conducting crew changes to those rigs. It is not possible to estimate how long these rigs will remain in their current status, but if these drilling rigs are demobilized or leave the Gulf of Mexico, there will be a further adverse affect to our flight activity. The majority of our transportation activity services production facilities, which are not directly impacted by the moratorium. This adds stability to our business as these are more permanent in nature. We believe the Macondo incident is likely to result in increased costs for our exploration and production company customers operating in the Gulf of Mexico. Increased costs may cause customers to decrease their activity in the Gulf of Mexico, may decrease demand for our services, and may increase pricing pressure for our services. We cannot predict whether or to what extent drilling activities will resume in the Gulf of Mexico. Further, the potential for, or the ultimate enactment of, laws and regulations that increase the costs of, or impose additional restrictions on, drilling or operating in the Gulf of Mexico, may cause customers and potential customers to substantially limit activities in or even exit the Gulf of Mexico. Accordingly, the Macondo incident could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on the offshore oil and gas industry, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. Approximately 67% of our 2010 operating revenue was attributable to helicopter support for offshore oil and gas exploration and production companies, substantially all of which was in the Gulf of Mexico. Our business is highly dependent on the level of activity by oil and gas companies, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. The level of activity by our customers operating in the Gulf of Mexico depends on factors that we cannot control, such as: • the extent to which increased government regulation or other factors may impose increased costs, including as a result of the Macondo incident, as discussed above; • the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas and market expectations regarding supply and demand; • weather-related or other natural causes; • actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, and Middle Eastern and other oil producing countries, to control prices or change production levels; • general economic conditions in the United States and worldwide; • war, civil unrest or terrorist activities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of oil and natural gas could depress the level of helicopter activity in support of exploration and production activity, and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Additionally, the Gulf of Mexico is generally considered to be a mature area for oil and gas exploration, which may result in a continuing decrease in activity over time. This could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the concentrated nature of our operations subjects us to the risk that a regional event could cause a significant interruption in our operations or otherwise have a material affect on our profitability. Moreover, companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry continually seek to implement cost-savings measures. As part of these measures, oil and gas companies have attempted to improve operating efficiencies with respect to helicopter support services. For example, certain oil and gas companies have pooled helicopter services among operators, reduced staffing levels by using technology to permit unmanned production installations and decreased the frequency of transportation of employees offshore by increasing the lengths of shifts offshore. The continued implementation of such measures could reduce demand for helicopter services and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our financial condition. We depend on a small number of large oil and gas industry customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and our credit exposure within this industry is significant. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major and independent oil and gas companies. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 31% of our operating revenues were attributable to our two largest customers, Shell and BP, accounting for 14% and 17%, respectively. The loss of one of our significant customers, if not offset by revenues from new or other existing customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, this concentration of customers may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. Our domestic pilot workforce is represented by the OPEIU although the Company and the Union do not have a current agreed upon collective bargaining agreement and the Company, the Union and individual pilots are engaged in litigation. We are involved in Federal Court litigation in the Western District of Louisiana and the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals with the Office and Professional Employees International Union (“OPEIU”), the union representing our domestic pilots. For additional information, see Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. Although credit markets have improved following the credit crisis in late 2008 and 2009, there remains a risk that these markets may have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The credit markets and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition. We cannot predict our ability to obtain lease financing due to credit availability, and this could limit our ability to fund our future growth and operations. While we have been able to obtain proposals and lease financing, we cannot predict future availability nor the effects on pricing for lease financing. General economic conditions and recent market events may expose us to new risks. Recent events in the financial markets have contributed to severe volatility in the securities markets, a severe liquidity crisis in the global credit markets, and unprecedented government intervention. In such an environment, significant additional risks may exist for us. The recent instability in the financial markets has led the U.S. government to take a number of unprecedented actions designed to support certain financial and other institutions and segments of the financial market that have experienced extreme volatility, and in some cases, a lack of liquidity. There can be no assurance that this intervention will improve market conditions, that such conditions will not deteriorate, or that further government intervention will or will not occur. 12 Table of Contents Our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer is also our principal stockholder and has voting control of the Company. Al A. Gonsoulin, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns stock representing approximately 59.7% of our total voting power. As a result, he exercises control over the election of all of our directors and the outcome of all matters requiring a stockholder vote. This ownership also may delay or prevent a change in our management or a change in control of us, even if such changes would benefit our other stockholders and were supported by a majority of our stockholders. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws and Louisiana law make it more difficult to effect a change in control of us, which could discourage a takeover of our company and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Although an attempted takeover of our company is unlikely by virtue of the ownership by our Chief Executive Officer of more than 50% of the total voting power of our capital stock, there are also provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our company’s securities at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to you. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our by-laws, such as giving the board the exclusive right to fill all board vacancies, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. In addition to the provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and by-laws, the Louisiana Business Corporation Law (“LBCL”), includes certain provisions applicable to Louisiana corporations, such as us, which may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect. Such provisions give stockholders the right to receive the fair value of their shares of stock following a control transaction from a controlling person or group and set forth requirements relating to certain business combinations. Our descriptions of these provisions are only abbreviated summaries of detailed and complex statutes. For a complete understanding of the statutes, you should read them in their entirety. The LBCL’s control share acquisition statute provides that any person who acquires “control shares” will be able to vote such shares only if the right to vote is approved by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of both (i) all the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders and (ii) all the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders excluding “interested shares.” The control share acquisition statute permits the articles of incorporation or by-laws of a company to exclude from the statute’s application acquisitions occurring after the adoption of the exclusion. Our by-laws do contain such an exclusion; however, our board of directors or stockholders, by an amendment to our by-laws, could reverse this exclusion. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 