ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant risks or uncertainties that could (i) materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects or (ii) cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations. The following information should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Please note that the following discussion is not intended to comprehensively list all risks or uncertainties faced by us. Our operations or actual results could also be similarly impacted by additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us, that we currently deem to be immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions. RISKS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS The failure to maintain our safety record would seriously harm our ability to attract new customers and maintain our existing customers. A favorable safety record is one of the primary factors a customer reviews in selecting an aviation provider. If we fail to maintain our safety and reliability record, our ability to attract new customers and maintain our current customers will be materially adversely affected. Helicopter operations involve risks that may not be covered by our insurance or may increase the cost of our insurance. The operation of helicopters inherently involves a high degree of risk. Aircraft accidents, collisions, fire, adverse weather and other hazards may result in loss of life, serious injury to employees and third parties, and losses of equipment and revenues. Accidents involving other helicopter companies could adversely impact us if they (i) cause governmental agencies to impose flight moratoriums or (ii) reduce demand for the specific model of helicopter involved in the accidents or for helicopter services generally. We maintain hull and liability insurance on our aircraft, which insures us against physical loss of, or damage to, our aircraft and against certain legal liabilities to others. In addition, we carry war risk, expropriation, confiscation and nationalization insurance for our aircraft involved in international operations. In some instances, we are covered by indemnity agreements from our customers in lieu of, or in addition to, our insurance. Our aircraft are not insured for loss of use. While we believe that our insurance and indemnification arrangements provide reasonable protection for most foreseeable losses, they do not cover all potential losses and are subject to deductibles, retentions, coverage limits and coverage exceptions. Accordingly, if we suffer severe casualty losses, the expropriation or confiscation of significant assets, or other events that are not fully covered by insurance, we could incur a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our operations are affected by adverse weather conditions and seasonal factors. We are subject to weather-related or seasonal factors, including primarily: • poor weather conditions that often prevail during winter but can develop in any season; • the tropical storm and hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico; and • reduced daylight hours during the winter months. Poor visibility, high winds and heavy precipitation can affect the operation of helicopters and significantly reduce our flight hours. A significant portion of our operating revenue is dependent on actual flight hours and a substantial portion of our direct costs is fixed. Thus, prolonged periods of adverse weather can materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and net earnings. 6 Table of Contents In the Gulf of Mexico, the months of December, January and February generally have more days of adverse weather conditions than the other months of the year. Also, June through November is tropical storm and hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico, with August and September typically being the most active months. During tropical storms, we are unable to operate in the area of the storm and can incur significant expense in moving our aircraft to safer locations. In addition, as most of our facilities are located along the Gulf of Mexico coast, tropical storms and hurricanes may cause substantial damage to our property, including helicopters that we are unable to relocate. Because the fall and winter months have fewer hours of daylight, our flight hours are generally lower at those times, which typically results in a reduction in operating revenues during those months. Currently, approximately 53% of the helicopters used in our oil and gas operations are equipped to fly under instrument flight rules (“IFR”), which enables these aircraft, when manned by IFR-rated pilots and co-pilots, to operate when poor visibility or darkness prevents flight by non-IFR aircraft. Our helicopters may not always be profitably deployed. We are exposed to the risk that our helicopters may not always be profitably deployed. Customers often require a specific type of helicopter, which may be different from those in our fleet. The duration of our typical customer contract is generally too short to recover our cost of purchasing a helicopter, subjecting us to the risk that we will be unable to recoup our investment in the helicopter. Helicopters we acquire may not be covered by customer contracts when they are added to our fleet. Once a new helicopter is delivered to us, we generally spend between two and three months installing mission-specific or customer-specific equipment before we place it into service. As a result, there can be a significant delay between the delivery date for a new helicopter and the time that it is able to generate revenues for us. We may not be able to find alternative profitable uses for helicopters no longer under contract. If we cannot find an acceptably profitable use for a helicopter, or if a helicopter no longer meets our strategic objectives, including due to age, we may sell it. Prices in the used helicopter market have been volatile over time, and we may incur gains or losses from the sale of helicopters. Inability to profitably deploy helicopters in our fleet may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. Our contracts generally can be terminated or downsized by our customers without penalty. Most of our fixed-term contracts contain provisions permitting early termination by the customer, sometimes with as little as 30 days’ notice for any reason and generally without penalty. In addition, many of our contracts permit our customers to decrease the number of aircraft under contract with a corresponding decrease in the fixed monthly payments without penalty. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the existence or current terms of our customer contracts. The helicopter services business is competitive. All segments of our business are highly competitive. Many of our contracts are awarded after competitive bidding, and the competition for those contracts generally is intense. We generally compete on the basis of safety, price, reliability, availability, experience, fleet configuration and service. We have two major competitors and several small competitors operating in the Gulf of Mexico, and most of our customers and potential customers could operate their own helicopter fleets if they chose to do so. Our Air Medical segment competes for business primarily under the independent provider model and, to a lesser extent, under the traditional provider model. Under the independent provider model, we have no contracts and no fixed revenue stream, but must compete for transport referrals on a daily basis with other independent operators in the area. Under the traditional provider model, we contract directly with the hospital to provide their transportation services, with the contracts typically awarded on a competitive bid basis. Under both models, we compete against national and regional companies, and there is usually more than one competitor in each local market. In addition, we compete against hospitals that operate their own helicopters and, in some cases, against ground ambulances as well. Demand for our air medical flight services would decrease if more hospitals in our operating areas develop their own aviation capability. 7 Table of Contents The offshore helicopter services industry is cyclical. The offshore helicopter services industry has historically been cyclical and is affected by the volatility of oil and gas price levels. There have been periods of high demand for our services, followed by periods of low demand for our offshore services. Changes in commodity prices can have a significant effect on demand for our offshore services, and periods of low activity intensify price competition in the industry and could result in our aircraft being idle for prolonged periods. We depend on a small number of helicopter manufacturers for our supply of new helicopters. There are a small number of helicopter manufacturers that can meet our needs for new aircraft to expand our fleet or replace aircraft that no longer meet our needs. If we are unable to obtain aircraft from these manufacturers with delivery dates, prices and other terms acceptable to us, our profitability and growth prospects could be adversely impacted, and the impact may be material. We require aircraft components and parts for the maintenance and repair of aircraft, and supply constraints or cost increases could adversely affect our business. Our ability to maintain and repair our aircraft depends on our ability to obtain a sufficient supply of aircraft components and parts, many of which are available from a limited number of vendors. If we are unable to perform timely maintenance and repairs, our aircraft may be unable to meet contract demands or may be underutilized, which would have an adverse impact on our financial performance. In addition, obtaining supplies of aircraft components and parts can be more challenging in our foreign operations. Supply constraints or supplier cost increases for important aircraft components and parts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Air Medical operations expose us to numerous special risks, including collection risks and potential medical malpractice claims. Our Air Medical operations are highly competitive and expose us to a number of risks that we do not encounter in our oil and gas operations. For instance, the fees for our air medical services generally are paid by, insurance companies, government agencies under federal programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, or individual patients. Reimbursement rates vary among payor types, with commercial insurers typically reimbursing us at a higher rate than Medicare, Medicaid and self-pay reimbursement rates. We respond to calls for air medical transport without reviewing the creditworthiness or insurance coverage of the patient, and are not permitted to refuse service to patients based on their inability to pay. As a result, our profitability in this business depends not only on our ability to generate an acceptable volume of patient transports, but also on our ability to collect our transport fees. Because our mix of customers is subject to change and their payment rates vary, the collection rates of our Air Medical invoices are more volatile than the collection rates of our oil and gas invoices. We employ paramedics, nurses, and other medical professionals for these operations, which can give rise to medical malpractice claims against us, which, if not fully covered by our medical malpractice insurance, could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our aircraft are subject to mechanical or safety risks. Our Oil and Gas operations are significantly dependent upon the availability of our heavy aircraft. If the FAA, PHI, or PHI’s customers were to deem our aircraft unsafe and suspend or curtail the use of any aircraft that we use to conduct our operations, our operating activities, financial position, cash flow and prospects could be materially adversely effected. Increased governmental regulations could increase our costs or reduce our ability to operate successfully. Our operations are regulated by a number of federal and state agencies. All of our U.S. flight operations are regulated by the FAA. Aircraft accidents are subject to the jurisdiction of the National Transportation Safety Board. Standards relating to workplace health and safety are monitored by OSHA. We are also subject to various federal and state healthcare, communications and other laws and regulations. 8 Table of Contents The FAA has jurisdiction over many aspects of our business, including personnel, aircraft and ground facilities, and has the power to suspend or curtail the use of aircraft deemed unsafe. We are required to have an Air Taxi Certificate, granted by the FAA, to transport personnel and property in our helicopters. This certificate contains operating specifications that allow us to conduct our present operations, but it is potentially subject to amendment, suspension or revocation in accordance with procedures set forth in the Federal Aviation Act. The FAA conducts regular inspections regarding the safety, training and general regulatory compliance of our U.S. aviation operations. Additionally, the FAA requires us to file reports confirming our continued compliance. FAA regulations require that at least 75% of our voting securities be owned or controlled by citizens of the U.S. or one of its possessions, and that our president and at least two-thirds of our directors be U.S. citizens. Our president and five of our six directors are U.S. citizens, and our organizational documents provide for the automatic reduction in voting power of each share of voting common stock owned or controlled by a non-U.S. citizen if necessary to comply with these regulations. We are subject to significant regulatory oversight by OSHA and similar state agencies. We are also subject to the Communications Act of 1934 because of our ownership and operation of a radio communications flight-following network throughout the Gulf of Mexico. Numerous other federal statutes and rules regulate our offshore operations and those of our customers, pursuant to which the federal government has the ability to suspend, curtail or modify certain or all offshore operations. A suspension or substantial curtailment of offshore oil and gas operations for any prolonged period would have an immediate and materially adverse effect on us. A substantial modification of current offshore operations could adversely affect the economics of such operations and result in reduced demand for our services. Our air medical operations are also subject to healthcare-related laws and regulations, including those related to Medicare and Medicaid compliance and the privacy and security rules of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended. These operations further require us to obtain various state ambulance licenses. If we cannot timely obtain and thereafter maintain these licenses in our operating markets, our ability to conduct or expand our air medical operations could be adversely affected. These detailed regulations increase our operating and compliance costs, limit our operational flexibility and subject us to the risk of fines, penalties or loss of operating authority in the event we fail to comply therewith. Our operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Inherent in our business is the risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities due to our handling of petroleum products and generated wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and as a result of historical operations and waste disposal practices. Environmental laws and regulations generally require us to obtain permits such as air emissions and wastewater permits before regulated activities commence, require us to remain in compliance with the permits, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment in connection with regulated activities, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or the terms or conditions of required environmental permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations or corrective actions, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that have been used for many years by us or others for various aviation operational support and maintenance activities. Petroleum products and wastes may have been disposed or released on or under properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where we have arranged for such petroleum products or wastes to be taken for disposal or recycling. In addition, many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum products or wastes was not under our control. Because operating and maintaining helicopters causes us to generate, handle and dispose of materials that may be classified as “hazardous substances,” “hazardous wastes,” or other types of regulated materials, we may incur joint and several, strict liability under applicable federal laws, including the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, also referred to as the Superfund law, and the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, restore affected properties, or undertake measures to prevent future contamination. In addition, future spills or releases of regulated substances or the discovery of currently unknown contamination could expose us to material losses, expenditures 9 Table of Contents and environmental liabilities, including liabilities resulting from lawsuits brought by private litigants or neighboring property owners or operators for personal injury or property damage related to our operations or the land on which our operations are conducted. We generally cannot recover these costs from insurance. Changes in environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could require us to obtain more costly pollution control equipment, or subject us to more stringent waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements or other unforeseen liabilities, any of which could require us to make significant expenditures. For example, the U.S. Congress has considered, and almost one-half of the states have pursued regulatory initiatives designed to restrict the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Any adoption of laws or regulations that limits emissions of greenhouse gases from equipment or operations could result in increased costs to reduce such emissions from our operations as well as those of our customers, and could adversely affect demand for our services. New and proposed health care legislation and regulation could have a material impact on our business. On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) became law, enacting comprehensive health care reform in the United States. The legislation aims to expand health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans, and, among several other things, expands the number of Medicaid recipients, and assesses fees on employers who do not offer qualifying coverage to employees. The legislation also has provisions aimed at controlling health care costs. With respect to our Air Medical operations, we may be adversely affected by any decrease in reimbursement rates per flight from Medicaid, Medicare and commercial insurance payors and by any increase in the number of Medicaid payors, but we may also benefit from any increase in payments from individuals who were previously uninsured. As such, the impact of the PPACA on our Air Medical operations is currently highly uncertain. The PPACA also regulates the terms and conditions of healthcare insurance coverage that we can offer to our employees. Although we believe we will be able to continue to maintain in the near term our current healthcare benefits as a “grandfathered plan” under the PPACA, we cannot assure you of this. Our failure to maintain our grandfathered plan could result in reduced flexibility and increased healthcare costs. Federal and state governments may propose and adopt other health care initiatives or changes to current laws and regulations, the impact of which cannot be predicted. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and if we fail to comply with these laws and government regulations, we could incur penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and closely scrutinized by various federal, state and local governmental agencies. Comprehensive statutes and regulations govern the manner in which we provide and bill for services, our contractual relationships with our vendors and customers, our marketing activities and other aspects of our operations. Some of these laws are further described below. Failure to comply with these laws can result in civil and criminal penalties such as fines, damages and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are sometimes open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. The laws, regulations and standards governing the provision of healthcare services may change significantly in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business. We are subject to comprehensive and complex laws and rules that govern the manner in which we bill and are paid for our services by third party payors, and the failure to comply with these rules, or allegations that we have failed to do so, can result in civil or criminal sanctions, including exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Like most healthcare providers, the majority of our services are paid for by private and governmental third party payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These third party payors typically have differing and complex billing and documentation requirements that we must meet in order to receive payment for our services. Reimbursement to us is typically conditioned on our providing the correct codes and properly documenting the services, including the level of service provided, the medical necessity for the services and the site of service. 10 Table of Contents We must also comply with numerous other laws applicable to our documentation and the claims we submit for payment, including but not limited to (1) “coordination of benefits” rules that dictate which payor we must bill first when a patient has potential coverage from multiple payors; (2) requirements that we obtain the signature of the patient or patient representative, or, in certain cases, alternative documentation, prior to submitting a claim; (3) requirements that we repay any payor which pays us more than the amount to which we are entitled; (4) requirements that we bill a hospital, rather than Medicare, for certain ambulance transports provided to Medicare patients of such facilities; (5) requirements that our electronic claims for payment be submitted using certain standardized transaction codes and formats; and (6) laws requiring us to handle all health and financial information of our patients in a manner that complies with specified security and privacy standards. From time to time, the failure of the federal government to timely issue Medicare or Medicaid billing numbers has impeded our potential to expand operations. Governmental and private third party payors and other enforcement agencies carefully audit and monitor our compliance with these and other applicable rules. Our failure to comply with the billing and other rules applicable to us could result in non-payment for services rendered or refunds of amounts previously paid for such services. In addition, non-compliance with these rules may cause us to incur civil and criminal penalties, including fines and exclusion from government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, under a number of state and federal laws. These laws include the federal False Claims Act, the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and other provisions of federal, state and local law. The federal False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute were both recently amended in a manner which makes it easier for the government to demonstrate that a violation has occurred. The laws, regulations and standards governing the provision of healthcare services may change significantly in the future. Over the past several years, Congress has taken steps to reduce Medicare and Medicaid spending levels, which has resulted in lower reimbursement rates for our services and constrained our ability to charge higher amounts to cover cost increases. We expect these trends will continue. Under federal privacy law, as recently amended, we are subject to more stringent penalties in the event we improperly use or disclose protected health information regarding our patients. Certain privacy regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, contain detailed requirements concerning the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information by “covered entities,” which includes our Air Medical operations. In addition to the privacy requirements, HIPAA covered entities must implement certain administrative, physical, and technical security standards to protect the integrity, confidentiality and availability of certain electronic health information received, maintained, or transmitted by covered entities or their business associates. The enactment in 2009 of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act modified HIPAA in a manner that increases both the risk and consequences of enforcement. Violations of the HIPAA privacy and security standards, as amended by the HITECH Act, may result in civil and criminal penalties. The civil penalties range up to $50,000 per violation, subject to certain limitations, although a single breach incident can result in violations of multiple standards. We must also comply with certain “breach notification” regulations, which implement certain provisions of the HITECH Act. Under these regulations, in addition to reasonable remediation, covered entities must promptly notify affected individuals in the case of a breach of “unsecured protected health information” as defined by HHS guidance. In addition, notification must be provided to the HHS Secretary and the media in cases where a breach affects more than 500 individuals. Breaches affecting fewer than 500 individuals must be reported to the HHS Secretary on an annual basis. Many states in which we operate also have state laws that protect the privacy and security of confidential, personal information. These laws may be similar to or even more protective than the federal provisions. Not only may some of these state laws impose fines and penalties upon violators, but some may afford private rights of action to individuals who believe their personal information has been misused. California’s patient privacy laws, for example, provide for penalties of up to $250,000 and permit injured parties to sue for damages. 11 Table of Contents Our relationships with our vendors and customers, and our marketing practices, are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. We are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of “remuneration” in return for, or to induce, the referral of business or ordering of services paid for by Medicare or other federal programs. “Remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to mean anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, credit arrangement and in-kind goods or services, as well as cash. Certain federal courts have held that the Anti-Kickback Statute can be violated if “one purpose” of a payment is to induce referrals. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in imprisonment, civil or criminal fines or exclusion from Medicare and other governmental programs. The PPACA amended the Anti-kickback Statute in a manner that makes it easier for the government to demonstrate intent to violate the statute, which is an element of a violation. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply to referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any payor, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Exclusions from liability differ from state to state, rendering compliance more difficult and uncertain. The federal False Claims Act is used frequently by the government and private parties against healthcare providers in challenging the accuracy of their claims for reimbursement and other conduct related to such claims. The federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program. The False Claims Act allows a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. Pursuant to changes made by PPACA, a claim resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute can constitute a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third party payor and not merely a federal healthcare program. Changes in any of the above-described laws or regulations may limit our ability to plan, and could subject us to further costs or constraints. From time to time, the laws or regulations governing us or our customers, or the government’s policy of enforcing those laws or regulations, have changed frequently and materially, particularly in the recent past with respect to laws applicable to medical operations and environmental protection. The variability of these laws could hamper the ability of us and our customers to plan for the future or establish long-term strategies. Moreover, future changes in these laws or regulations could further increase our operating or compliance costs, or further restrict our operational flexibility, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position, financial condition or prospects. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and regulatory uncertainty. Our international operations represented approximately 9% of our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, and we expect that percentage will grow during 2014. As of December 31, 2013, we operated four aircraft in West Africa and 13 aircraft in the Middle East. Our foreign operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Regulations that require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or the employment of local citizens may adversely affect our competitiveness in these jurisdictions. Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services within various foreign jurisdictions. 12 Table of Contents In addition to these international regulatory risks, some of the other risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • tax, licensing, currency, political or other business restrictions or requirements; • longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable; • import and export restrictions, including the risk of fines or penalties assessed for violating export restrictions by the Office of Foreign Assets Controls of the U.S. Department of Treasury; • additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, as well as other anti-corruption laws; • economic, social and political instability, with the attendant risks of terrorism, kidnapping, extortion, civic unrest and potential seizure or nationalization of assets; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical infrastructure supporting operations; • the inability to enforce our contract rights, either due to under-developed legal systems or government actions that result in a deprivation of contract rights; • laws, policies or practices that limit the scope of operations that can legally or practicably be conducted within any particular country; and • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations. Moreover, in order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, it is frequently necessary or required to establish joint ventures, strategic alliances or marketing arrangements with local operators, partners or agents. Reliance on local operators, partners or agents could expose us to the risk of being unable to control the scope or quality of our overseas services or products, or being held liable under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws for actions taken by our strategic or local partners or agents even though these partners or agents may not themselves be subject to the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation or prospects. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect us. Our ability to attract and retain qualified pilots, mechanics, nurses, paramedics and other highly trained personnel will be an important factor in determining our future success. Many of our customers require pilots of aircraft that service them to have extremely high levels of flight experience. The market for these experienced and highly trained personnel is extremely competitive. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain such persons. Some of our pilots and mechanics, and those of our competitors, are members of the U.S. military reserves and could be called to active duty. If significant numbers of such persons are called to active duty, it would reduce the supply of such workers, possibly curtailing our operations and likely increasing our labor costs. RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR COMPANY The Macondo incident had a substantial adverse effect on our business and any significant development adversely impacting deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico would adversely affect us. Our business is highly dependent on the offshore oil and gas industry, with approximately 57% of our total 2013 operating revenue attributable to helicopter support for offshore oil and gas exploration and production companies, substantially all of which was in the Gulf of Mexico. Of this revenue, approximately 72% was attributable to deepwater operations. Many of the helicopters we have purchased recently are larger aircraft intended to service deepwater activities, and the margins we earn on these aircraft are generally higher than on smaller aircraft. In addition, we derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major and independent oil and gas companies. 13 Table of Contents As a result of the well-publicized sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior imposed a moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico from May through October 2010. According to public data, deepwater drilling did not reach pre-accident levels until approximately September 2011. The moratorium had a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first half of 2011. Any future accident or development that has a similar adverse impact on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on the offshore oil and gas industry, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. Approximately 57% of our 2013 operating revenue was attributable to helicopter support for offshore oil and gas exploration and production companies, substantially all of which was in the Gulf of Mexico. Our business is highly dependent on the level of activity by oil and gas companies, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. The level of activity by our customers operating in the Gulf of Mexico depends on factors that we cannot control, such as: • the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas and market expectations regarding supply and demand; • weather-related or other natural causes; • actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, and Middle Eastern and other oil producing countries, to control prices or change production levels; • the price and availability of alternative fuels or energy sources; • the extent to which increased government regulation or other factors may impose increased costs, including as a result of the Deepwater Horizon accident discussed above; • the extent to which taxes, tax credits or other governmental regulations or policies affect the production, price or availability of petroleum products and alternative energy sources; • general economic conditions in the United States and worldwide; and • war, civil unrest or terrorist activities. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of oil and natural gas could depress the level of helicopter activity in support of exploration and production activity, and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the Gulf of Mexico is generally considered to be a mature area for oil and gas exploration, which may result in a continuing decrease in activity over time. This could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the concentrated nature of our operations subjects us to the risk that a regional event could cause a significant interruption in our operations or otherwise have a material effect on our profitability. Moreover, companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry continually seek to implement cost-savings measures. As part of these measures, oil and gas companies have attempted to improve operating efficiencies with respect to helicopter support services. For example, certain oil and gas companies have pooled helicopter services among operators, reduced staffing levels by using technology to permit unmanned production installations and decreased the frequency of transportation of employees offshore by increasing the lengths of shifts offshore. The continued implementation of such measures, or any decision of these companies to initiate their own helicopter support services, could reduce demand for our helicopter services and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our financial condition. We depend on a small number of large customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and our credit exposure within the oil and gas industry is significant. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of major and independent oil and gas companies, mostly in the oil and gas industry. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 28% of our operating revenues were attributable to our two largest customers, accounting for 15% and 13%, respectively, and 14 Table of Contents approximately 53% of our operating revenues were attributable to our five largest customers. The loss of one of our significant customers, if not offset by revenues from new or other existing customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, our concentration of customers within the oil and gas industry may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. Our domestic pilot workforce is represented by a union, although we and the union do not have a current agreed upon collective bargaining agreement. Our domestic pilots are represented by the Office and Professional Employees International Union (the “OPEIU”). We have not had a collective bargaining agreement with the OPEIU in several years, and bargaining was deferred during the pendency of a suit against us by the OPEIU, which was terminated in late 2013. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of future negotiations with the OPEIU, or when or whether a new agreement might be reached. If an agreement is reached, such agreement may cause us to incur additional expenses related to our employees, thereby reducing our profits and impacting our financial results negatively. Additionally, if an agreement is not reached and there are labor disputes, including strikes, our operations and flight services could suffer, thereby negatively impacting our financial results. We must obtain additional financing in order to fund our aircraft purchase and other obligations. As of December 31, 2013, we had obligations related to aircraft purchase commitments totaling approximately $132.5 million due in 2014, along with other significant contractual obligations described in this report. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $86.9 million in cash and short-term investments and $71.0 million available under our $150 million revolving credit facility. We intend to seek to obtain operating leases, additional debt financing or both to fund these obligations. Our inability to obtain such financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness and operating lease commitments could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. We are a highly leveraged company and, as a result, have significant debt service obligations. We also have significant operating lease commitments and, as a result, have significant rent expense. As of December 31, 2013, our total indebtedness was $379.0 million, consisting of $300 million of our 8.625% Senior Notes due 2018 and $79.0 million borrowed under our $150 million revolving credit facility, which matures in 2015. We have a separate letter of credit facility that had $14.7 million outstanding at December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $274.8 million in aggregate commitments under aircraft and other operating leases, of which approximately $51.6 million is payable through December 31, 2014. The total lease commitments include $256.3 million for aircraft and $18.5 million for facility lease commitments, primarily for our facilities in Lafayette, Louisiana. The degree to which we are leveraged or may become leveraged in the future could have important consequences to our equity and debt holders, including: • limiting our ability to access the capital markets; • hindering our flexibility to plan for or react to changing market, industry or economic conditions; • limiting the amount of cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, expansion or other uses, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; • making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; • increasing the risk that we will need to sell securities or assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; or 15 Table of Contents • increasing the risk that we may not meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or timely make all required debt payments. Subject to the limits contained in our existing debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time. If we chose to do so, the effects of each of these factors could be intensified. Our ability to meet our debt obligations, lease commitments and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 8.625% Senior Notes due 2018 limit, among other things, our ability to: • pay cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain investments; • create certain liens on our assets to secure debt; • consolidate, merge or enter into other business combination transactions; • issue and sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain capital stock; • enter into different lines of business; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries to us; • participate in activities through business entities that are not subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • transfer or sell assets. Our revolving credit facility also requires, and our future credit facilities may require, us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests in the future. If we fail to comply with any of the above-described covenants, we could be in default under our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 8.625% Senior Notes due 2018, and the principal and accrued interest on our outstanding indebtedness may become due and payable. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations and lease obligations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to pay our obligations under our operating leases, and to fund planned capital expenditures, including purchases of aircraft under purchase options, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to conditions in the oil and gas industry, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico, and to general economic and financial conditions, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt and operating lease obligations, or to obtain alternative financings, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 16 Table of Contents Upon a change of control, holders of our public debt securities will have the right to require us to purchase their notes, which could have certain adverse ramifications. Upon a “change of control,” each holder of our 8.625% Senior Notes due 2018 will have the right to require us to purchase any or all of that holder’s notes. If, due to lack of cash, legal or contractual impediments, or otherwise, we fail to discharge these obligations, such failure could constitute an event of default under such notes, which could in turn constitute a default under other of our agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at that time. In addition, actions taken by us to comply with these purchase obligations could constitute a default under our revolving credit facility, unless waived by the lender. Moreover, the existence of these purchase obligations may in certain circumstances make more difficult or discourage a sale or takeover of us, or the removal of our incumbent directors. Our business is subject to potential security breaches and attacks. As service providers, we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, to manage or support a variety of our business operations, transactions and processes, and to maintain various records, which may include personally identifiable information of customers, employees or other third parties. Additionally, this information may include medical information that is subject to and regulated by privacy laws, as described further in the risk factors referenced above. We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and systems and maintain contingency plans in the event of security breaches or other system disruptions. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that our security efforts and measures will prevent unauthorized access to our systems, loss or destruction of data, account takeovers, or other forms of cyber-attacks or similar events, whether caused by mechanical failures, human error, fraud, malice, sabotage or otherwise. The frequency, scope and sophistication of cyber-attacks continues to grow, which increases the possibility that our security measures will be unable to prevent our systems’ improper functioning or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information (including medical information). Any failure to maintain the proper functioning, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, or subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, any of which could materially and adversely affect us. Our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer is also one of our principal stockholders and has voting control of the Company. Al A. Gonsoulin, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns stock representing approximately 69.2% of our total voting power and 18.1% of our total outstanding shares of voting and non-voting common stock as of December 31, 2013. As a result, he exercises control over the election of all of our directors and the outcome of all matters requiring a stockholder vote. This ownership also may delay or prevent a change in our management or a change in control of us, even if such changes would benefit our other stockholders and were supported by a majority of our stockholders. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws and Louisiana law make it more difficult to effect a change in control of us, which could discourage a takeover of our company and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Although an attempted takeover of our company is unlikely by virtue of the ownership by our Chief Executive Officer of more than 50% of the total voting power of our capital stock, there are also provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our company’s securities at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to you. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our by-laws, such as giving the board the exclusive right to fill all board vacancies, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. In addition to the provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and by-laws, the Louisiana Business Corporation Law (“LBCL”) includes certain provisions applicable to Louisiana corporations, such as us, which may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect. Such provisions give stockholders the right to receive the fair value of their shares of stock following a control transaction from a controlling person or group and set forth requirements relating to certain business combinations. Our descriptions of these provisions are only abbreviated summaries of detailed and complex statutes. For a complete understanding of the statutes, you should read them in their entirety. 17 Table of Contents The LBCL’s control share acquisition statute provides that any person who acquires “control shares” will be able to vote such shares only if the right to vote is approved by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of both (i) all the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders and (ii) all the votes entitled to be cast by stockholders excluding “interested shares.” The control share acquisition statute permits the articles of incorporation or by-laws of a company to exclude from the statute’s application acquisitions occurring after the adoption of the exclusion. Our by-laws do contain such an exclusion; however, our board of directors or stockholders, by an amendment to our by-laws, could reverse this exclusion. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if we experience an ownership change. As described in Note 8 – Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K, we have substantial net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) available to offset future taxable income. Our ability to use our federal NOLs could be substantially limited if we were to experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”). Generally, an ownership change occurs when the percentage of a corporation’s stock (by value) owned by all of the corporation’s 5% shareholders (as determined pursuant to the IRC), as a group, has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock (by value) owned by the 5% shareholders, as a group, at any time during the past three years. A corporation must test to determine whether it has had an ownership change on any date that a 5% shareholder acquires stock. Changes in ownership of our stock are generally not within our control. If an ownership change were to occur, the use of our federal NOLs would be subject to an annual limit, generally equal to the value of the company multiplied by the long-term tax exempt rate, which could substantially limit our ability to use the NOLs each year and could results in NOLs expiring unused. Use of our state NOLs may also be limited by an ownership change. Tax audits or changes in tax laws could adversely affect us. Like all large businesses, we are subject to frequent and regular audits by the Internal Revenue Service as well as state and local tax authorities. These audits could subject us to tax liabilities if adverse positions are taken by these tax authorities. We believe that we have adequately provided for tax contingencies. However, our tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have recognized in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of all of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results. We are exposed to risks arising out of recent legislation affecting U.S. public companies. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and related regulations implemented thereunder, are increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. Any failure to successfully or timely complete annual assessments of our internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or our reputation with investors, lenders and others. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 