Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. General Business and Operational Risks General economic conditions may adversely affect our businesses. Our businesses are affected by general economic conditions. In particular, growth in Tampa Electric’s service area and Florida is important to the realization of annual energy sales growth for Tampa Electric and PGS. Any weakening of economic conditions, including the Florida housing markets and general economy, could adversely affect Tampa Electric’s or PGS’s expected performance. Weak economic conditions could affect these companies’ ability to collect payments from customers. TECO Coal is also affected by general economic conditions effecting primarily the utility and steel industries, both nationally and internationally. TECO Coal sells metallurgical coal internationally, but primarily to European customers and demand in that continent has been reduced due to the European debt crisis and the resulting economic weakness. Continued economic weakness and the resulting lower demand for metallurgical coal in the European market could reduce TECO Coal’s financial results. Our electric and gas utilities are highly regulated; changes in regulation or the regulatory environment could reduce revenues or increase costs or competition. Tampa Electric and PGS operate in highly regulated industries. Their retail operations, including the prices charged, are regulated by the FPSC, and Tampa Electric’s wholesale power sales and transmission services are subject to regulation by the FERC. Changes in regulatory requirements or adverse regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on Tampa Electric’s or PGS’s financial performance by, for example, reducing revenues, increasing competition or costs, threatening investment recovery or impacting rate structure. Tampa Electric has announced plans to file a base rate proceeding in 2013 for new rates in 2014. Our financial position could be weaker after 2013 if the FPSC were to not grant the base rate relief requested. Tampa Electric has notified the FPSC that its actual earned ROE could be as low as 7% in 2014, well below the bottom of the allowed ROE range of 10.25% to 12.25%, without base rate relief effective in 2014. If the FPSC does not grant adequate rate relief our financial position would be weakened in 2014, as Tampa Electric enters the period of peak capital spending on its next generation expansion project (see the Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Expenditures section of Managements Discussion & Analysis section). Changes in the environmental laws and regulations affecting our businesses could increase our costs or curtail our activities. Our businesses are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities dealing with air, water and other environmental matters. Changes in compliance requirements or the interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us or require us to curtail some of our businesses’ activities. Potential new regulations on the disposal and/or storage of coal combustion residuals (CCR) could add to Tampa Electric’s operating costs. In response to a coal ash pond failure in December 2008, the EPA proposed new regulations for the management and disposal of CCRs. These proposed rules include two potential designations of CCRs. One designation would categorize CCRs destined for disposal as hazardous wastes. This designation is the most significant for Tampa Electric because hazardous waste landfills are currently prohibited in Florida by state law. CCRs designated as hazardous waste destined for disposal would have to be shipped out of state as hazardous waste at significantly increased costs. In addition, the hazardous designation could require improvements to Tampa Electric’s current ash management practices and interim storage and handling facilities for CCRs inside its power stations, even though permanent onsite disposal would not be allowed. The other proposed rule would set minimum standards for the final disposal of CCRs under regulations similar to those in place for municipal non-hazardous solid waste. This proposal would not be as disruptive as the former, since it would allow for the continued operation of Tampa Electric’s existing, lined ash ponds. However, this latter proposal would place additional management requirements on these existing disposal units, which would eventually reach the end of their useful life and need to be replaced. Required changes would include disposing of any CCR as hazardous waste, which would be at a cost significantly higher than current costs, converting to dry handling of coal ash, and elimination of any wet storage impoundments in current use. If the EPA eliminates the use of ponds for by-product storage, Tampa Electric would have to invest in dry handling and 25 Table of Contents storage, which could increase costs. Federal or state regulation of GHG emissions, depending on how they are enacted, could increase our costs or the rates charged to our customers, which could curtail sales. Among our companies, Tampa Electric has the most significant number of stationary sources with air emissions. While GHG emission regulations have been proposed, both at the federal and state level, none have been passed at this time and, therefore, costs to reduce GHGs are unknown. Presently there is no viable technology to remove CO2 post-combustion from conventional coal-fired units such as Tampa Electric’s Big Bend units. Current regulation in Florida allows utility companies to recover from customers prudently incurred costs for compliance with new environmental regulations. Tampa Electric would expect to recover from customers the costs of power plant modifications or other costs required to comply with new GHG emission regulation. If the regulation allowing cost recovery is changed and the cost of compliance is not recovered through the ECRC, Tampa Electric could seek to recover those costs through a base-rate proceeding, but we cannot predict whether the FPSC would grant such recovery. In the case of TECO Coal, the use of coal to generate electricity is considered a significant source of GHG emissions. New regulations, depending on final form, could cause the consumption of coal to decrease or the cost of sales to increase, which could negatively impact TECO Coal’s earnings. Among other rules, the EPA has proposed a number of new rules, including the Clean Air Interstate Rule/Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPS) Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) for emissions to the air, and a number of new rules focused on water use and discharges from power generation facilities. Together these air focused rules impose stringent reductions in several pollutants from electric utility steam generators, primarily coal-fired, but including oil-fired as well. If these rules are implemented as proposed, the EPA has estimated that the implementation of CSAPR would require significant investment in pollution-control equipment for units not already equipped or could result in the retirement of primarily smaller, older coal-fired power stations that do not currently have state-of-the-art air pollution-control equipment already installed. The retirement of these units or switching to other fuels for compliance with this rule is likely to reduce overall demand for coal, which could reduce sales and financial results at TECO Coal. The EPA’s proposed water focused rules could limit the supply of water available to our power generating facilities, require the investment of significant capital for new equipment and increase operating costs. A mandatory RPS could add to Tampa Electric’s costs and adversely affect its operating results. In past sessions of the Florida Legislature, an RPS was debated but ultimately not enacted. There remains considerable interest in renewable energy sources by renewable energy suppliers, developers and the utilities in Florida. Previously the FPSC made a recommendation to the Florida Legislature that the RPS be 20% by Jan. 1, 2021. The FPSC recommendation is subject to ratification by the Florida Legislature, but to date the Legislature has not adopted the FPSC’s recommendation. In addition, there is the potential that legislation could be proposed in the U.S. Congress to introduce an RPS at the federal level. It remains unclear, however, if or when action on such legislation would be completed. Tampa Electric could incur significant costs to comply with an RPS. Tampa Electric’s operating results could be adversely affected if Tampa Electric were not permitted to recover these costs from customers through the ECRC. Tampa Electric, the state of Florida and the nation as a whole are increasingly dependent on natural gas to generate electricity. There may not be adequate infrastructure to deliver adequate quantities of natural gas to meet the expected future demand, and the expected higher demand for natural gas may lead to increasing costs for the commodity. In Florida and across the United States, utilities are increasingly relying on natural gas for new electric generating plants in response to GHG emissions concerns and attractive natural gas prices. Currently, there is an adequate supply and infrastructure to meet demand for natural gas in Florida and nationally. However, if future supplies are inadequate or if significant new investment is required to install the pipelines necessary to transport the gas, the cost of natural gas could rise. Currently, Tampa Electric and PGS are allowed to pass the cost for the commodity gas and transportation services to customers without profit. Changes in regulations could reduce earnings if they required Tampa Electric or PGS to bear a portion of the increased cost. In addition, increased costs to customers could result in lower sales. Our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and the effects of extreme weather, and have seasonal variations. 26 Table of Contents All of our businesses are affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. Tampa Electric’s and PGS’s energy sales are particularly sensitive to variations in weather conditions. Those companies forecast energy sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. If climate change or other factors cause significant variations from normal weather, this could have a material impact on energy sales. PGS, which has a typically short but significant winter peak period that is dependent on cold weather, is more weather-sensitive than Tampa Electric, which has both summer and winter peak periods. Mild winter weather in Florida can negatively impact results at Tampa Electric and PGS. Variations in weather conditions also affect the demand and prices for the commodities sold by TECO Coal. Severe weather conditions could interrupt or slow coal production or rail transportation and increase operating costs. The state of Florida is exposed to extreme weather, including hurricanes, which can cause damage to our facilities and affect our ability to serve customers. As a company with electric service and natural gas operations in peninsular Florida, the company is exposed to extreme weather events, such as hurricanes. Extreme weather conditions can be destructive, causing outages and property damage that require the company to incur additional expenses. Extensive customer outages could reduce revenue collections. If warmer temperatures lead to changes in extreme weather events (increased frequency, duration and severity), these expenses could be greater. While the company has storm preparation and recovery plans in place, and Tampa Electric and PGS have historically been granted regulatory approval to recover or defer the majority of significant storm costs incurred, extreme weather still poses risks to our operations and storm cost-recovery petitions may not always be granted or may not be granted in a timely manner. If costs associated with future severe weather events cannot be recovered in a timely manner, or in an amount sufficient to cover actual costs, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of our utility businesses. All of our businesses are sensitive to changes in coal, gas, oil and other commodity prices. Any changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services. In the case of Tampa Electric, fuel costs used for generation are affected primarily by the cost of coal and natural gas. Tampa Electric is able to recover prudently incurred costs of fuel through retail customers’ bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. The ability to make sales and the margins earned on wholesale power sales are affected by the cost of fuel to Tampa Electric, particularly as it compares to the costs of other power producers. In the case of PGS, costs for purchased gas and pipeline capacity are recovered through retail customers’ bills, but increases in gas costs affect total retail prices and, therefore, the competitive position of PGS relative to electricity, other forms of energy and other gas suppliers. Competition among coal producers in Central Appalachia and other producing regions, and low natural gas prices may adversely affect TECO Coal’s ability to sell it products. Low-cost natural gas has allowed utility steam coal users to switch from coal to natural gas to produce electricity, which has reduced the current market price and demand for TECO Coal’s steam coal at domestic utilities. Continued low natural gas prices would keep demand and selling prices low, which would reduce TECO Coal’s profitability, or reduce the value of its reserves. TECO Coal sells approximately 50% of its production to domestic utilities for use in the generation of power. Since 2011, natural gas prices have dropped significantly, which caused utility coal users to switch to lower cost natural gas to generate electricity. Even with a modest increase in natural gas prices in 2013, it remains more cost effective for users of higher cost Central Appalachian coal, which TECO Coal produces, to burn a higher percentage of natural gas for power generation. Lower cost coals from other producing regions of the U.S. are being utilized by more utilities in lieu of Central Appalachian coals further reducing demand. 27 Table of Contents At the end of 2013, approximately 50% of TECO Coal’s existing profitable steam coal contracts expire. Without an increase in the cost of natural gas and an increase in the use of coal for power generation, or a general improvement in coal market conditions, TECO Coal’s profitability will be reduced. If these conditions were to persist, the value of TECO Coal’s reserves could be reduced, which could result in a non-cash write off. Results at our utility companies may be affected by changes in customer energy-usage patterns, the impact of the Florida housing market, and the cost of complying with potential new environmental regulations. For the past several years, weather-normalized energy consumption per residential customer declined due to the combined effects of voluntary conservation efforts, economic conditions, improvements in lighting and appliance efficiency, trends toward smaller single family houses and increased multi-family housing, which we believe have contributed to lower per-customer usage. The utilities’ forecasts are based on normal weather patterns and historical trends in customer energy-usage patterns. Tampa Electric’s and PGS’s ability to increase energy sales and earnings could be negatively impacted if customers continue to use less energy in response to increased energy efficiency of lights and appliances, economic conditions or other factors. Compliance with proposed GHG emissions reductions, a mandatory RPS or other new regulation could raise Tampa Electric’s cost. While current regulation allows Tampa Electric to recover the cost of new environmental regulation through the ECRC, increased costs for electricity may cause customers to change usage patterns, which would impact Tampa Electric’s sales. Our computer systems and Tampa Electric’s infrastructure may be subject to cyber (primarily electronic or internet-based) attack, which could disrupt operations, cause loss of important data or compromise customer, employee-related or other critical information or systems. There have been an increasing number of cyber attacks on companies around the world, which have caused operational failures or compromised sensitive corporate or customer data. These attacks have occurred over the Internet, through malware, viruses, or attachments to e-mails or through persons inside of the organization or through persons with access to systems inside of the organization. We have security systems and infrastructure in place to prevent such attacks, and these systems are subject to internal, external and regulatory audits to ensure adequacy. Despite these efforts, we cannot be assured that a cyber attack will not cause electric or gas system operational problems, disruptions of service to customers, or compromise important data or systems. We rely on some transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver wholesale electricity, as well as natural gas. If transmission is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electricity and natural gas may be hindered. We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by other utilities and energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas we purchase for use in our electric generation facilities. If transmission is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual and service obligations may be hindered. The FERC has issued regulations that require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, there is the potential that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electric power as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities. Likewise, unexpected interruption in upstream natural gas supply or transmission could affect our ability to generate power or deliver natural gas to local distribution customers. The value of our existing deferred tax benefits are determined by existing tax laws, and could be negatively impacted by changes in these laws. There are increasing calls in Congress for “comprehensive tax reform,” which could significantly alter the existing tax code, including a reduction in corporate income tax rates. A reduction in the corporate income tax rate would reduce the value of our existing deferred tax assets and could result in write-offs and higher cash tax payments, which could reduce our ability to retire debt in 2016 and 2017. The current administration in Washington D.C. has proposed the elimination of the percentage depletion tax deduction for coal mines and other hard minerals and fossil fuels. 28 Table of Contents If the percentage depletion tax deduction is eliminated for TECO Coal, the effective tax rate for that company would rise from the expected 20% to 25% to the general corporate tax rate of 37%, which would have an adverse effect on TECO Coal’s financial results after 2013. Impairment testing of certain long-lived assets could result in impairment charges. We evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment annually or more frequently if certain triggering events occur. Should the current carrying values of any of these assets not be recoverable, we would incur charges to write down the assets to fair market value. Problems with operations could cause us to incur substantial costs. Each of our subsidiaries is subject to various operational risks, including accidents, equipment failures and operations below expected levels of performance or efficiency. Our subsidiaries could incur problems such as the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines, coal mining or processing equipment or other equipment or processes that would result in performance below assumed levels of output or efficiency. The occurrence of one or more of these problems could cause us to incur substantial costs, including potential claims for damages that may exceed the scope of our insurance coverage, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results from operations. Failure to obtain the permits necessary to open new surface mines could reduce earnings from TECO Coal. Our coal mining operations are dependent on permits from the USACE to open new surface mines necessary to maintain or increase production. Since 2008, new permits issued by the USACE under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act for new surface coal mining operations have been challenged in court by various environmental groups, resulting in a backlog of permit applications and very few permits being issued. TECO Coal had three permits on the list of permits subject to enhanced review by the EPA under its memorandum of understanding with the USACE, which was issued in September 2009. In October 2011, the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia set aside the Enhanced Coordination Procedures (ECP) developed by the USACE and the EPA to expedite review of pending surface coal mining permit applications. USACE Districts and the EPA Regions in Appalachia have all ceased using the ECP as of the date of the District Court’s decision. While the court invalidated the ECP, the decision does not affect any statutory or regulatory requirements established under the Clean Water Act, including the USACE’s and the EPA’s Section 404 permitting regulations. Failure to obtain the necessary permits to open new surface mines, which are required to maintain and expand production, could reduce production, cause higher mining costs or require purchasing coal at prices above our cost of production to fulfill contract requirements, which would reduce the earnings expected from TECO Coal. In 2010, the EPA issued new guidelines related to water quality for Central Appalachian coal surface mining operations that would be conditions of new surface mine permits, which would add significant cost to operations or curtail our surface mining activities and preparation plant operations. On April 1, 2010, the EPA issued new guidance on environmental permitting requirements for Central Appalachian mountaintop removal and other surface mining projects. The guidance limits conductivity (level of mineral salts) in water discharges into streams from permitted areas, and was effective immediately on an interim basis. At that time, the EPA stated that it would decide whether to modify the guidance after consideration of public comments and the results of the Science Advisory Board (SAB) technical review of the EPA scientific reports. In July 2011, the EPA made this guidance final without modification. Because the EPA’s standards appear to be unachievable under most circumstances, surface mining activity could be substantially curtailed since most new and pending permits would likely be rejected. This guidance could also be extended to discharges from deep mines and preparation plants, which could result in a substantial curtailing of those activities as well. In July 2012, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that the EPA had exceeded its statutory authority in establishing the water quality guidance discussed above in the manner in which it was done. Following the outcome of these court decisions, pending appeals by the EPA, few, if any, new permits have been issued by USACE. Over time, if new permits are not issued, TECO Coal could incur higher production costs or reduced production from surface mining operations. TECO Coal’s sales to international customers are subject to risks that could result in losses or increased costs. TECO Coal is exposed to financial risk through its sales to international customers, primarily in Europe. TECO Coal attempts to mitigate this risk through dollar-denominated contracts, passage of title upon loading in the U.S. port, customer responsibility for the international freight, letters of credit posted by customers for purchase price of the commodity and the transportation to the U.S. port, and the utilization of local agents where appropriate. TECO Coal cannot be assured that these 29 Table of Contents measures will effectively mitigate all international risks, which could have an adverse effect on TECO Coal’s financial conditions. Potential competitive changes may adversely affect our regulated electric and gas businesses. Competition in wholesale power sales is wide spread across the country. Some states have mandated or encouraged competition at the retail level and, in some situations, required divestiture of generating assets. While there is active wholesale competition in Florida, the retail electric business has remained substantially free from direct competition. Although not expected in the foreseeable future, changes in the competitive environment occasioned by legislation, regulation, market conditions or initiatives of other electric power providers, particularly with respect to retail competition, could adversely affect Tampa Electric’s business and its expected performance. The gas distribution industry has been subject to competitive forces for several years. Gas services provided by PGS are unbundled for all non-residential customers. Because PGS earns margins on distribution of gas but not on the commodity itself, unbundling has not negatively impacted PGS’s results. However, future structural changes that we cannot predict could adversely affect PGS. From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings that may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. From time to time, we are a party to, or otherwise involved in, lawsuits, claims, proceedings, investigations and other legal matters that have arisen in the ordinary course of conducting our business. While the outcome of these lawsuits, claims, proceedings, investigations and other legal matters which we are a party to, or otherwise involved in, cannot be predicted with certainty, an adverse outcome could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Financing Risks We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition and financial flexibility. We have significant indebtedness, which has resulted in fixed charges we are obligated to pay. The level of our indebtedness and restrictive covenants contained in our debt obligations could limit our ability to obtain additional financing. TECO Energy, TECO Finance and TEC must meet certain financial tests as defined in the applicable agreements to use their respective credit facilities. Also, TECO Energy, TECO Finance, TEC and other operating companies have certain restrictive covenants in specific agreements and debt instruments. See the Credit Facilities section and Significant Financial Covenants table in the Liquidity, Capital Resources sections of Management’s Discussion & Analysis for descriptions of these tests and covenants. As of Dec. 31, 2012, we were in compliance with required financial covenants, but we cannot be assured that we will be in compliance with these financial covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet our payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of other outstanding debt obligations. We may not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a portion of our outstanding obligations. We also incur obligations in connection with the operations of our subsidiaries and affiliates that do not appear on our balance sheet. These obligations take the form of guarantees, letters of credit and contractual commitments, as described under Liquidity, Capital Resources sections of the Management’s Discussion & Analysis. Financial market conditions could limit our access to capital and increase our costs of borrowing or refinancing, or have other adverse effects on our results. The financial market conditions that were experienced in 2008 and early 2009 impacted access to both the short-and long-term capital markets and the cost of such capital. TECO Finance has debt maturing in 2015 of which it expects to refinance a portion. Future financial market conditions could limit our ability to raise the capital we need and could increase our interest costs, which could reduce earnings. We enter into derivative transactions, primarily with financial institutions as counterparties. Financial market turmoil could lead to a sudden decline in credit quality among these counterparties, which could make in-the-money positions uncollectable. We enter into derivative transactions with counterparties, most of which are financial institutions, to hedge our exposure to commodity price changes. Although we believe we have appropriate credit policies in place to manage the non-performance risk associated with these transactions, turmoil in the financial markets could lead to a sudden decline in credit quality among these counterparties. If such a decline occurs for a counterparty with which we have an in-the-money position, 30 Table of Contents we could be unable to collect from such counterparty. Declines in the financial markets or in interest rates used to determine benefit obligations could increase our pension expense or the required cash contributions to maintain required levels of funding for our plan. The value of our pension fund assets were negatively impacted by unfavorable market conditions in 2008. As of Jan. 1, 2012, our plan was approximately 84% funded under calculation requirements of the Pension Protection Act. As calculated under the MAP-21 legislation, signed into law in 2012, our funded percentage is expected to be approximately 94% as of the next Pension Protection Act measurement date of Jan. 1, 2013. TECO Energy estimates its required minimum contributions to range from $15 million to $50 million annually over the next five years. Any future declines in the financial markets or further declines in interest rates could increase the amount of contributions required to fund our plan in the future. We estimate that pension expense in 2013 will be slightly higher than levels experienced in 2012, primarily due to the lower interest rate environment. Any future declines in the financial markets or a continuation of the low interest rate environment could cause pension expense to increase in future years. Our financial condition and results could be adversely affected if our capital expenditures are greater than forecast. We are forecasting capital expenditures at Tampa Electric to support the current levels of customer growth, to comply with the design changes mandated by the FPSC to harden transmission and distribution facilities against hurricane damage, to maintain transmission and distribution system reliability, to maintain coal-fired generating unit reliability and efficiency, and longer-term to add generating capacity at the Polk Power Station. If we are unable to maintain capital expenditures at the forecasted levels, we may need to draw on credit facilities or access the capital markets on unfavorable terms. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain additional financing, in which case our financial position, earnings and credit ratings could be adversely affected. Our financial condition and ability to access capital may be materially adversely affected by multiple ratings downgrades to below investment grade, and we cannot be assured of any rating improvements in the future. Our senior unsecured debt is rated as investment grade by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) at BBB with a stable outlook, by Moody’s Investor’s Services (Moody’s) at Baa2 with a stable outlook, and by Fitch Ratings (Fitch) at BBB with a stable outlook. The senior unsecured debt of TEC is rated by S&P at BBB+ with a stable outlook, by Moody’s at A3 with a stable outlook and by Fitch at A—with a stable outlook. A downgrade to below investment grade by the rating agencies may affect our ability to borrow, may change requirements for future collateral or margin postings, and may increase our financing costs, which may decrease our earnings. We also may experience greater interest expense than we may have otherwise if, in future periods, we replace maturing debt with new debt bearing higher interest rates due to any such downgrades. In addition, downgrades could adversely affect our relationships with customers and counterparties. At current ratings, Tampa Electric and PGS are able to purchase electricity and gas without providing collateral. If the ratings of TEC decline to below investment grade, Tampa Electric and PGS could be required to post collateral to support their purchases of electricity and gas. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own and depend on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own or material assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet our cash requirements. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends or make other cash payments to us when needed, we may be unable to pay dividends or satisfy our obligations. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 