Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. General Business and Operational Risks General economic conditions may adversely affect our businesses. Our businesses are affected by general economic conditions. In particular, growth in Tampa Electric’s service area and in Florida is important to the realization of annual energy sales growth for Tampa Electric and PGS. A failure of market conditions to improve, or continued deterioration, such as the current worldwide economic slowdown and the currently depressed Florida housing markets, could adversely affect Tampa Electric’s or PGS’ expected performance. Continuation or worsening of the current economic conditions could affect these companies’ ability to collect payments from customers. TECO Coal and TECO Guatemala are also affected by general economic conditions in the industries and geographic areas they serve, both nationally and internationally. Our electric and gas businesses are highly regulated, and any changes in regulations or the regulatory environment could lower revenues or increase costs or competition. 19 Table of Contents Tampa Electric and PGS operate in highly regulated industries. Their retail operations, including the prices charged, are regulated by the FPSC, and Tampa Electric’s wholesale power sales and transmission services are subject to regulation by the FERC. Changes in regulatory requirements or adverse regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on Tampa Electric’s or PGS’ financial performance by, for example, increasing competition or costs, threatening investment recovery or impacting rate structure. Tampa Electric and PGS are currently earning below the bottom of their respective allowed ROE ranges and have filed for base rate increases with the Florida Public Service Commission. Our financial results could be adversely affected if the base rate proceedings do not have favorable outcomes. Tampa Electric and PGS are currently earning below the bottom of their respective allowed ROE ranges, and filed with the FPSC for base rate relief in 2008. While the FPSC has a history of constructive regulation, we cannot predict the outcome of any such regulatory proceeding. If cost recovery is not granted or if the allowed return on equity is reduced, our financial results could be adversely affected. Changes in the environmental laws and regulations affecting our businesses could increase our costs or curtail our activities. Our businesses are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities dealing with air, water and other environmental matters. Changes in compliance requirements or the interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us or require us to curtail some of our businesses’ activities. Federal or state regulation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, depending on how they are enacted, could increase our costs or the costs of our customers or curtail sales. Among our companies, Tampa Electric has the most significant number of stationary sources with air emissions. While GHG emission regulations have been proposed, both at the federal and state level, none have been passed at this time and therefore costs to reduce GHGs are unknown. Presently there is no viable technology to remove CO2 post-combustion from conventional coal-fired units such as Tampa Electric’s Big Bend units. Regulation in Florida allows utility companies to recover from customers prudently incurred costs for compliance with new environmental regulations. Tampa Electric would expect to recover from customers the costs of power plant modifications or other costs required to comply with new GHG emission regulation, but increased costs for electricity may cause customers to change usage patterns, which would impact Tampa Electric’s sales. If the regulation allowing cost recovery is changed and the cost of compliance is not recovered through the ECRC, Tampa Electric could seek to recover those costs through a base-rate proceeding, but we cannot predict whether the FPSC would grant such recovery. In the case of TECO Coal, the use of coal to generate electricity is considered a significant source of GHG emissions. New regulations, depending on final form, could cause the consumption of coal to decrease or the cost of sales to increase, which could negatively impact TECO Coal’s earnings. The significant, phased reductions in GHG emissions called for by the executive orders signed by the governor of Florida in 2007 could add to Tampa Electric’s costs and adversely affect its operating results. The Governor of Florida signed three Executive Orders in July 2007 aimed at reducing Florida’s emissions of GHG. The three orders include directives for reducing GHG emissions by electric utilities to 2000 levels by 2017; to 1990 levels by 2025; and by 80 percent of 1990 levels by 2050; and the creation of the Governor’s Action Team on Energy and Climate Change to develop a plan to achieve the targets contained in the Executive Orders, including any necessary legislative initiatives required. The Action Team submitted its Phase One report to the Governor on Nov. 1, 2007. The final report was completed by the October 2008 deadline and included recommendations incorporating GHG emission reduction targets and strategies into Florida’s energy future as well as energy efficiency and conservation targets. Also in 2008, the state legislature passed broad energy and climate legislation that, among other items, affirmed the FDEP’s authority to establish a utility carbon reduction schedule and a carbon dioxide cap and trade system by rule, but added a requirement for legislative ratification of the rule no sooner than January 2010. The FDEP has initiated the rule development process, but until the final rules are developed, the impact on Tampa Electric and its customers can not be determined. However, if the final rules result in increased costs to Tampa Electric, or further changes in customer usage patterns in response to higher rates, Tampa Electric’s operating results could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents A mandatory renewable portfolio standard (RPS) could add to Tampa Electric’s costs and adversely affect its operating results. In connection with the executive orders signed by the Governor of Florida in July 2007, the FPSC was tasked with evaluating a renewable portfolio target. The FPSC has made a recommendation to the Florida legislature that the RPS percentage be 7% by Jan. 1, 2013, 12% by Jan. 1, 2016, 18% by Jan. 1, 2019 and 20% by Jan. 1, 2021. The FPSC recommendation is subject to ratification by the Florida legislature. In addition, there is proposed legislation in the U.S. Congress to introduce a renewable energy portfolio standard at the federal level. It remains unclear, however, if or when action on such legislation would be completed. Tampa Electric could incur significant costs to comply with a renewable energy portfolio standard, as proposed. Tampa Electric’s operating results could be adversely affected if Tampa Electric were not permitted to recover these costs from customers, or if customers change usage patterns in response to increased rates. Tampa Electric, the State of Florida and the nation as a whole are increasingly dependent on natural gas to generate electricity. There may not be adequate infrastructure to deliver adequate quantities of natural gas to meet the expected future demand and the expected higher demand for natural gas may lead to increasing costs for the commodity. The deferral of Tampa Electric’s IGCC unit and the cancellation of numerous proposed coal-fired generating stations in Florida and across the United States in response to GHG emissions concerns is expected to lead to an increasing reliance on natural gas-fired generation to meet the growing demand for electricity. Currently there is an adequate supply and infrastructure to meet demand for natural gas in Florida and nationally. There is, however, uncertainty regarding whether the available supply of both domestic and imported natural gas and the existing infrastructure to transport the natural gas into and within Florida are adequate to meet the projected increased demand. If supplies are inadequate or if significant new investment is required to install the pipelines necessary to transport the gas, the cost of natural gas could rise. Currently Tampa Electric and PGS are allowed to pass the cost for the commodity gas and transportation services through to the customer without profit. Changes in regulations could reduce earnings for Tampa Electric and PGS if they required Tampa Electric and PGS to bear a portion of the increased cost. In addition, increased costs to customers could result in lower sales. Our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and the effects of extreme weather, and have seasonal variations. Most of our businesses are affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. Tampa Electric’s and PGS’ energy sales are particularly sensitive to variations in weather conditions. Those companies forecast energy sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather could have a material impact on energy sales. Extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, could adversely affect operating costs and sales and cause damage to our facilities, requiring additional costs to repair. PGS, which has a typically short but significant winter peak period that is dependent on cold weather, is more weather-sensitive than Tampa Electric, which has both summer and winter peak periods. Mild winter weather in Florida can be expected to negatively impact results at PGS. Variations in weather conditions also affect the demand and prices for the commodities sold by TECO Coal. Severe weather conditions could interrupt or slow coal production or rail transportation and increase operating costs. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of our businesses. Most of our businesses are sensitive to changes in coal, gas, oil and other commodity prices. Any changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services. In the case of Tampa Electric, fuel costs used for generation are affected primarily by the cost of coal and natural gas. Tampa Electric is able to recover prudently incurred costs of fuel through retail customers’ bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. The ability to make sales and the margins earned on wholesale power sales are affected by the cost of fuel to Tampa Electric, particularly as it compares to the costs of other power producers. In the case of PGS, costs for purchased gas and pipeline capacity are recovered through retail customers’ bills, but increases in gas costs affect total retail prices, and therefore, the competitive position of PGS relative to electricity, other forms of energy and other gas suppliers. In the case of TECO Coal, the selling price of coal may cause it to either decrease or increase production. If production is decreased, there may be costs associated with idling facilities or write-offs of reserves that are no longer economic. 21 Table of Contents In the case of TECO Guatemala, the dispatch price for some of the diesel generating resources in Guatemala, which use residual oil, is below the average price of coal used by the San José Power Station due to the current prices for crude oil. If this relationship persists, generation from the San José Power Station would continue to be limited, thus reducing non-fuel energy sales revenues and net income. Changes in customer energy usage patterns and the impact of the housing market slowdown may affect sales at our utility companies. Tampa Electric’s weather-normalized residential per customer usage declined again in 2008. It is now apparent that some of the robust residential customer growth in the 2005 through mid-2007 period, which was measured by new meter installations, was actually vacant residences with minimal energy usage. The average number of residential customers with minimal usage increased more than 7% in 2008. In general, energy usage per residential customer at both Tampa Electric and PGS has declined over the last three years. We believe that this was in response to mild weather, higher energy prices reflected both through the fuel charge on bills and for higher energy prices in general, increased appliance efficiency, and increased residential vacancies as a result of increasing foreclosures amid the economic slowdown. The utilities’ forecasts are based on normal weather patterns and historical trends in customer energy use patterns. Tampa Electric’s and PGS’ ability to increase energy sales and earnings could be negatively impacted if energy prices increase in general and customers continue to use less energy in response to higher energy prices. We rely on some transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver wholesale electricity, as well as natural gas. If transmission is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electricity and natural gas may be hindered. We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by other utilities and energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas we purchase for use in our electric generation facilities. If transmission is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual and service obligations may be hindered. The FERC has issued regulations that require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, there is the potential that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electric power as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities. Likewise, unexpected interruption in upstream natural gas supply or transmission could affect our ability to generate power or deliver natural gas to local distribution customers. We may be unable to take advantage of our existing tax credits and deferred tax benefits. We have generated significant tax credits and deferred tax assets that are being carried over to future periods to reduce future cash payments for income tax. Our ability to utilize the carry-over credits and deferred tax assets is dependent upon sufficient generation of future taxable income. Impairment testing of certain long-lived assets and goodwill could result in impairment charges. We test our long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if certain triggering events occur. Should the current carrying values of any of these assets not be recoverable, we would incur charges to write down the assets to fair market value. In the normal course of business, TECO Guatemala evaluated its $150.3 million investment in DECA II, including associated goodwill at Dec. 31, 2008 and determined that the value was not impaired. However, the outcome of the ongoing efforts and a potential arbitration under a Dominican-Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement (DR-CAFTA) claim is uncertain, and could impact this determination in the future. See the TECO Guatemala section of Management’s Discussion & Analysis for additional discussion of the DR-CAFTA claim. Problems with operations could cause us to incur substantial costs. Each of our subsidiaries is subject to various operational risks, including accidents, or equipment failures and operations below expected levels of performance or efficiency. As operators of power generation facilities, our subsidiaries could incur problems such as the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes that would result in performance below assumed levels of output or efficiency. Our outlook assumes normal operations and normal maintenance periods for our operating companies’ facilities. 22 Table of Contents Failure to obtain the permits necessary to open new surface mines could reduce earnings from our coal company. Our coal mining operations are dependent on permits from the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers (USACE) to open new surface mines necessary to maintain or increase production. For the past several years, new permits issued by the USACE under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act for new surface coal mining operations have been challenged in court resulting in a backlog of permit applications and very few permits being issued. Failure to obtain the necessary permits to open new surface mines, which are required to maintain and expand production, could reduce production or require purchasing coal at prices above our cost of production to fulfill contract requirements, which would reduce the earnings expected from our coal company. Our international projects are subject to risks that could result in losses or increased costs. Our projects in Guatemala involve numerous risks that are not present in domestic projects, including expropriation, political instability, currency exchange rate fluctuations, repatriation restrictions, and regulatory and legal uncertainties. TECO Guatemala attempts to manage these risks through a variety of risk mitigation measures, including specific contractual provisions, obtaining non-recourse financing and obtaining political risk insurance where appropriate. Guatemala, similar to many countries, has been experiencing increasing fuel and corresponding electricity prices. As a result, TECO Guatemala’s operations are exposed to increased risks as the country’s government and regulatory authorities seek ways to reduce the cost of energy to its consumers. If efforts to have the July 2008 value added distribution tariff (VAD) decision at EEGSA recalculated or revised are unsuccessful, earnings and cash flow from that company would be at risk as long as the current lower VAD remains in place. On Jan. 13, 2009, our subsidiary, TECO Guatemala Holdings, LLC, delivered a Notice of Intent to the Guatemalan government indicating its intent to file an arbitration claim against the Republic of Guatemala under the DR-CAFTA. A Notice of Intent is the first step in the process of filing an arbitration claim under the DR-CAFTA. A claimant must wait at least 90 days after the Notice of Intent before submitting a claim to arbitration. During this 90-day period, the parties may attempt to resolve the dispute amicably through consultation or negotiation. If these efforts are unsuccessful, all of EEGSA’s earnings contribution to TECO Guatemala, estimated to be a minimum of $10 million annually, could be at risk as long as the lower VAD remains in effect. Potential competitive changes may adversely affect our regulated electric and gas businesses. The U.S. electric power industry has been undergoing restructuring. Competition in wholesale power sales has been introduced on a national level. Some states have mandated or encouraged competition at the retail level and, in some situations, required divestiture of generating assets. While there is active wholesale competition in Florida, the retail electric business has remained substantially free from direct competition. Although not expected in the foreseeable future, changes in the competitive environment occasioned by legislation, regulation, market conditions or initiatives of other electric power providers, particularly with respect to retail competition, could adversely affect Tampa Electric’s business and its expected performance. The gas distribution industry has been subject to competitive forces for several years. Gas services provided by PGS are now unbundled for all non-residential customers. Because PGS earns margins on distribution of gas but not on the commodity itself, unbundling has not negatively impacted PGS’ results. However, future structural changes that we cannot predict could adversely affect PGS. We are a party from time to time to legal proceedings that may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. From time to time, we are a party to, or otherwise involved in, lawsuits, claims, proceedings, investigations and other legal matters that have arisen in the ordinary course of conducting our business. While the outcome of these lawsuits, claims, proceedings, investigations and other legal matters which we are a party to, or otherwise involved in, cannot be predicted with certainty, any adverse outcome to lawsuits against us may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Financing Risks Turmoil in the financial markets could limit our access to capital and increase our costs of borrowing or have other adverse effects on our results. The turmoil in the financial markets experienced in 2008 and continuing in 2009 has impacted access to both the short- and long-term capital markets and the cost of such capital. Tampa Electric Company expects to issue long-term debt in support of its capital spending programs. In addition, we have debt maturities, primarily beginning in 2011, which may require refinancing. Future capital market conditions could limit our ability to raise the capital we need, and could increase our interest costs which could reduce earnings. 23 Table of Contents We enter into derivative transactions with counterparties, most of which are financial institutions, to hedge our exposure to commodity price changes. Although we believe we have appropriate credit policies in place to manage the non-performance risk associated with these transactions, the recent turmoil in the financial markets could lead to a sudden decline in credit quality among these counterparties. If such a decline occurs for a counterparty with which we have an in-the-money position, we could be unable to collect from such counterparty. Continued declines in the financial markets could increase our pension expense or the required cash contributions to maintain required levels of funding for our plan. The value of our pension fund assets were negatively impacted by unfavorable market conditions in 2008. At Jan. 1, 2008 our plan was more than 100% funded under calculation requirements of the Pension Protection Act (PPA); however, as a result of investment performance the value of our plan assets declined in 2008. This will increase our required contributions to the plan beginning in 2009. Continued declines in financial markets could increase the amount of contributions required to fund our plan in the future. We estimate that pension expense in 2009 will be higher than in 2008, due in large part to the asset value decline. Additional declines in asset values could cause pension expense to increase in future years. We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition and financial flexibility. We have significant indebtedness, which has resulted in fixed charges we are obligated to pay. The level of our indebtedness and restrictive covenants contained in our debt obligations could limit our ability to obtain additional financing and could prevent the payment of dividends if those payments would cause a violation of the covenants. TECO Energy, TECO Finance and Tampa Electric Company must meet certain financial tests as defined in the applicable agreements to use their respective credit facilities. Also, TECO Energy, TECO Finance, Tampa Electric Company and other operating companies, have certain restrictive covenants in specific agreements and debt instruments. The restrictive covenants of our subsidiaries could limit their ability to make distributions to us, which would further limit our liquidity. See the Credit Facilities section and Significant Financial Covenants table in the Liquidity, Capital Resources sections of MD&A for descriptions of these tests and covenants. As of Dec. 31, 2008, we were in compliance with required financial covenants, but we cannot be assured that we will be in compliance with these financial covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet our payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of other outstanding debt obligations. We may not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a portion of our outstanding obligations. We also incur obligations in connection with the operations of our subsidiaries and affiliates that do not appear on our balance sheet. These obligations take the form of guarantees, letters of credit and contractual commitments, as described under Off-Balance Sheet Debt and Liquidity, Capital Resources sections of the MD&A. Our financial condition and results could be adversely affected if our capital expenditures are greater than forecast. We are forecasting higher levels of capital expenditures, primarily at Tampa Electric, for compliance with our environmental consent decree, to support normal customer growth, to comply with the design changes mandated by the FPSC to harden transmission and distribution facilities against hurricane damage, to improve transmission and distribution system reliability, to improve coal-fired generating unit reliability, and to install peaking combustion turbines to meet peaking capacity needs. If we are unable to maintain capital expenditures at the forecasted levels, we may need to draw on credit facilities or access the capital markets on unfavorable terms. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain additional financing, in which case our financial position, earnings and credit ratings could be adversely affected. Our financial condition and ability to access capital may be materially adversely affected by ratings downgrades, and we cannot be assured of any rating improvements in the future. Our senior unsecured debt is rated as investment grade by Moody’s Investor’s Services (Moody’s) at Baa3 with a stable outlook, and by Fitch Ratings (Fitch) at BBB- with a stable outlook but below investment grade by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) at BB+ with a positive outlook. The senior unsecured debt of Tampa Electric Company is rated by S&P at BBB- with a positive outlook, by Moody’s at Baa2 with a positive outlook and by Fitch at BBB+ with a stable outlook. Any downgrades by the rating agencies may affect our ability to borrow, may change requirements for future collateral or margin postings, and may increase our financing costs, which may decrease our earnings. We also may experience greater interest expense than we may have otherwise if, in future periods, we replace maturing debt with new debt bearing higher interest rates due to any such downgrades. In addition, downgrades could adversely affect our relationships with customers and counterparties. 24 Table of Contents At current ratings, Tampa Electric and PGS are able to purchase electricity and gas without providing collateral. If the ratings of Tampa Electric Company decline to below investment grade, Tampa Electric and PGS could be required to post collateral to support their purchases of electricity and gas. Because we are a holding company, we are dependent on cash flow from our subsidiaries, which may not be available in the amounts and at the times we need it. We are a holding company and are dependent on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our cash requirements that are not satisfied from external funding sources. Some of our subsidiaries have indebtedness containing restrictive covenants which, if violated, would prevent them from making cash distributions to us. In particular, certain long-term debt at PGS prohibits payment of dividends to us if Tampa Electric Company’s consolidated shareholders’ equity is lower than $500 million. At Dec. 31, 2008, Tampa Electric Company’s consolidated shareholders’ equity was approximately $2.1 billion. Also, our wholly-owned subsidiary, TECO Diversified, Inc., the holding company for TECO Coal, has a guarantee related to a coal supply agreement that could limit the payment of dividends by TECO Diversified to us (see the TECO Energy Significant Financial Covenants table in the Liquidity, Capital Resources sections of MD&A). Various factors could affect our ability to sustain our dividend. Our ability to pay a dividend, or sustain it at current levels, could be affected by such factors as the level of our earnings and therefore our dividend payout ratio, and pressures on our liquidity, including unplanned debt repayments, unexpected capital spending and shortfalls in operating cash flow. These are in addition to any restrictions on dividends from our subsidiaries to us discussed above. We are vulnerable to interest rate changes and may not have access to capital at favorable rates, if at all. A portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates, therefore, may require a greater portion of our cash flow to be used to pay interest. In addition, changes in interest rates and capital markets generally affect our cost of borrowing and access to these markets. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 