Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are certain factors that could affect our future results. They should be considered in connection with evaluating forward-looking statements, and are otherwise made by, or on behalf of, us, because these factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking statements. Financing Risks We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition and financial flexibility. We have significant indebtedness, which has resulted in an increase in the amount of fixed charges we are obligated to pay. The level of our indebtedness and restrictive covenants contained in our debt obligations could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or refinance existing debt and could prevent the repayment of subordinated debt and the payment of dividends if those payments would cause a violation of the covenants. We and Tampa Electric must meet certain financial tests as defined in the applicable agreements to use our and its respective credit facilities. Also, we, Tampa Electric and other operating companies, have certain restrictive covenants in specific agreements and debt instruments. The restrictive covenants of our subsidiaries could limit their ability to make distributions to us, which would further limit our liquidity. See the Credit Facilities section and Significant Financial Covenants table in the Liquidity, Capital Resources sections of MD&A for descriptions of these tests and covenants. As of Dec. 31, 2005, we were in compliance with required financial covenants, but we cannot assure you that we will be in compliance with these financial covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet our payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of other outstanding debt obligations. We may not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a portion of our outstanding obligations. In addition, if we had to defer interest payments on our subordinated notes underlying the outstanding trust preferred securities, we would be prohibited from paying cash dividends on our common stock until all unpaid distributions on those subordinated notes were made. We also incur obligations in connection with the operations of our subsidiaries and affiliates that do not appear on our balance sheet. These obligations take the form of guarantees, letters of credit and contractual commitments, as described under Off Balance Sheet Financing and Liquidity, Capital Resources sections of the MD&A. In addition, our unconsolidated affiliates have incurred non-recourse debt. Although we are not obligated on that debt, our investments in those unconsolidated affiliates are at risk if the affiliates default on their debt. Our financial condition and ability to access capital may be materially adversely affected by ratings downgrades. Our senior unsecured debt is rated below investment grade by Standard & Poor’s, or S&P, at BB with a stable outlook, by Moody’s Investor’s Services, or Moody’s, at Ba2 with a stable outlook and by Fitch Ratings, or Fitch, at BB+ with a stable outlook. The senior unsecured debt of Tampa Electric Company is rated by S&P at BBB- with a stable outlook, by Moody’s at 24 Table of Contents Baa2 with a stable outlook and by Fitch at BBB+ with a stable outlook. Any downgrades by the rating agencies may affect our ability to borrow, may change requirements for future collateral or margin postings, and may increase our financing costs, which may decrease our earnings. We also may experience greater interest expense than we may have otherwise if, in future periods, we replace maturing debt with new debt bearing higher interest rates due to any such downgrades. In addition, downgrades could adversely affect our relationships with customers and counterparties. At current ratings, Tampa Electric and PGS are able to purchase gas and electricity without providing collateral. If the ratings of Tampa Electric Company declined to below investment grade, Tampa Electric and PGS could be required to post collateral to support their purchases of gas and electricity. Our financial condition and results could be adversely affected if our capital expenditures are greater than forecast. We are forecasting higher levels of capital expenditures, primarily at Tampa Electric, for compliance with our environmental consent decree, generation system additions to support normal customer growth for the next several years, and to improve system reliability. We cannot be sure that our capital expenditures will not exceed the planned amount. If we are unable to maintain capital expenditures at the forecasted levels, we may need to draw on credit facilities or access the capital markets on unfavorable terms. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain additional financing, in which case our financial position, earnings and credit ratings could be adversely affected. Because we are a holding company, we are dependent on cash flow from our subsidiaries, which may not be available in the amounts and at the times we need it. We are a holding company and are dependent on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our cash requirements that are not satisfied from external funding sources. Some of our subsidiaries have indebtedness containing restrictive covenants which, if violated, would prevent them from making cash distributions to us. In particular, certain long-term debt at PGS prohibits payment of dividends to us if Tampa Electric Company’s consolidated shareholders’ equity is lower than $500 million. At Dec. 31, 2005, Tampa Electric Company’s consolidated shareholders’ equity was approximately $1.7 billion. Also, our wholly owned subsidiary, TECO Diversified, Inc., the holding company for TECO Transport, TECO Coal and TECO Solutions, has a guarantee related to a coal supply agreement that could limit the payment of dividends by TECO Diversified to us. Various factors could affect our ability to sustain our dividend. Our ability to pay a dividend, or sustain it at current levels, could be affected by such factors as the level of our earnings and therefore our dividend payout ratio, and pressures on our liquidity, including unplanned debt repayments, unexpected capital spending, shortfalls in operating cash flow and negative retained earnings. These are in addition to any restrictions on dividends from our subsidiaries to us discussed above. We are vulnerable to interest rate changes and may not have access to capital at favorable rates, if at all. A portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, including the floating rate notes we issued in June 2005. Increases in interest rates, therefore, may require a greater portion of our cash flow to be used to pay interest. In addition, changes in interest rates and capital markets generally affect our cost of borrowing and access to these markets. General Business and Operational Risks General economic conditions may adversely affect our businesses. Our businesses are affected by general economic conditions. In particular, the projected growth in Tampa Electric’s service area and in Florida is important to the realization of Tampa Electric’s and PGS’ respective forecasts for annual energy sales growth. An unanticipated downturn in the Tampa Electric service areas or in Florida’s economy could adversely affect Tampa Electric’s or PGS’ expected performance. Our unregulated businesses, TECO Transport, TECO Coal and TECO Guatemala, are also affected by general economic conditions in the industries and geographic areas they serve, both nationally and internationally. Potential competitive changes may adversely affect our regulated electric and gas businesses. The U.S. electric power industry has been undergoing restructuring. Competition in wholesale power sales has been introduced on a national level. Some states have mandated or encouraged competition at the retail level and, in some situations, required divestiture of generating assets. While there is active wholesale competition in Florida, the retail electric business has remained substantially free from direct competition. Although not expected in the foreseeable future, changes in the competitive 25 Table of Contents environment occasioned by legislation, regulation, market conditions or initiatives of other electric power providers, particularly with respect to retail competition, could adversely affect Tampa Electric’s business and its performance. The gas distribution industry has been subject to competitive forces for several years. Gas services provided by PGS are now unbundled for all non-residential customers. Because PGS earns margins on distribution of gas but not on the commodity itself, unbundling has not negatively impacted PGS’ results. However, future structural changes that we cannot predict could adversely affect PGS. Our electric and gas businesses are highly regulated, and any changes in regulatory structures could lower revenues or increase costs or competition. Tampa Electric and PGS operate in highly regulated industries. Their retail operations, including the prices charged, are regulated by the FPSC, and Tampa Electric’s wholesale power sales and transmission services are subject to regulation by the FERC. Changes in regulatory requirements or adverse regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on Tampa Electric’s or PGS’ financial performance by, for example, increasing competition or costs, threatening investment recovery or impacting rate structure. Our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and the effects of extreme weather, and have seasonal variations. Most of our businesses are affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. Tampa Electric’s and PGS’ energy sales are particularly sensitive to variations in weather conditions. Those companies forecast energy sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather could have a material impact on energy sales. Unusual weather, such as hurricanes, could adversely affect operating costs and sales and cause damage to our facilities, requiring additional costs to repair. PGS, which has a typically short but significant winter peak period that is dependent on cold weather, is more weather-sensitive than Tampa Electric, which has both summer and winter peak periods. Mild winter weather in Florida can be expected to negatively impact results at PGS. Variations in weather conditions also affect the demand and prices for the commodities sold by TECO Coal. TECO Transport is also impacted by weather because of its effects on the supply of and demand for the products transported. Severe weather conditions could interrupt or slow service and increase operating costs of those businesses. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of our businesses. Most of our businesses are sensitive to changes in coal, gas, oil and other commodity prices. Any changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services. In the case of Tampa Electric, fuel costs used for generation are affected primarily by the cost of coal and gas. Tampa Electric is able to recover prudently incurred costs of fuel through retail customers’ bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. The ability to make sales and the margins earned on wholesale power sales are affected by the cost of fuel to Tampa Electric, particularly as it compares to the costs of other power producers. In the case of PGS, costs for purchased gas and pipeline capacity are recovered through retail customers’ bills, but increases in gas costs affect total retail prices, and therefore, the competitive position of PGS relative to electricity, other forms of energy and other gas suppliers. We rely on some transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to deliver wholesale electricity, as well as natural gas. If transmission is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver electricity and natural gas may be hindered. We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by other utilities and energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to the wholesale and retail markets, as well as the natural gas we purchase for use in our electric generation facilities. If transmission is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver products and satisfy our contractual and service obligations may be hindered. The FERC has issued regulations that require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market transactions for electricity, there is the potential that fair and equal access to transmission systems will not be available or that sufficient transmission capacity will not be available to transmit electric power as we desire. We cannot predict the timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of transmission facilities. Likewise, unexpected interruption in upstream natural gas supply or transmission could affect our ability to generate power or deliver natural gas to local distribution customers. 26 Table of Contents We may be unable to take advantage of our existing tax credits and deferred tax benefits. Additionally, our earnings from outside investors in the non-conventional fuels production facilities may be impacted by domestic oil prices. We have generated significant tax credits and deferred tax assets that are being carried over to future periods to reduce future cash payments for income tax. Our ability to utilize the carry-over credits and deferred tax assets is dependent upon sufficient generation of future taxable income. We derive a portion of our net income from synthetic fuel tax credits related to the production of non-conventional fuels. Although we have sold 98% of our interest in the synthetic fuel production facilities, the amounts we realize from the sales and our continuing operations of the facilities on behalf of the third-party owners are dependent on the continued availability to the purchasers of the tax credits. The availability of the synthetic fuel tax credits to those purchasers could be negatively impacted by administrative actions of the Internal Revenue Service or the U.S. Treasury or changes in law, regulation or administration. The tax credits to the purchasers of our non-conventional fuels production facilities could be limited if annual average domestic oil prices in 2006, as measured by the DOE reference price, exceed a threshold price. If the oil price limitation is reached, the level of the tax credits start to decline. The DOE index is based on the “Domestic First Purchase Price” not the NYMEX quoted oil futures prices, which in 2005 averaged about $6.00 per barrel less than the NYMEX price. The synthetic fuel tax credit phase-out range for 2006 based on the DOE oil prices is expected to be $54 to $68 per barrel, which is the equivalent of a NYMEX price of approximately $60 to $74 per barrel. Any such limitation could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows through the life of the tax credits, which are scheduled to expire at the end of 2007. Impairment testing of certain long-lived assets and goodwill could result in impairment charges. We test our long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if certain triggering events occur. Should the current carrying values of any of these assets not be recoverable, we would incur charges to write down the assets to fair market value. Problems with operations could cause us to incur substantial costs. Each of our subsidiaries is subject to various operational risks, including accidents, or equipment failures and operations below expected levels of performance or efficiency. As operators of power generation facilities, our subsidiaries could incur problems such as the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes that would result in performance below assumed levels of output or efficiency. Our outlook assumes normal operations and normal maintenance periods for our operating companies’ facilities. TECO Transport does a significant amount of business under certain U.S. government programs that are dependent on annual appropriations. TECO Transport participates in the U.S. Cargo Preference Program and the in PL480 program for shipments of U.S. aid grain, which are funded annually through the U.S. government’s appropriation process. While these programs have been funded at stable levels for the many years, funding could be reduced by the actions of the Congress. Our outlook assumes that these programs continue to be funded at levels similar to the last several years. TECO Transport is a U.S. flag carrier with a major portion of its business subject to the Jones Act. The Jones Act restricts oceangoing shipments directly between U.S. ports and all inland waterway business to U.S. vessels built in U.S. shipyards, owned by citizens of the U.S., and with U.S. citizen crews and it has, on occasion, been cited as a cause for higher costs by certain domestic industries which have lobbied for repeal of the act or waivers for shipments carried by non-U.S. flag vessels under certain circumstances. A repeal or modification of the Jones Act opening this trade to non-U.S. flag vessels could potentially increase competition and reduce profitability. Our international projects and the operations of TECO Transport are subject to risks that could result in losses or increased costs. Our international projects involve numerous risks that are not present in domestic projects, including expropriation, political instability, currency exchange rate fluctuations, repatriation restrictions, and regulatory and legal uncertainties. Our international subsidiaries attempt to manage these risks through a variety of risk mitigation measures, including specific contractual provisions, obtaining non-recourse financing and obtaining political risk insurance where appropriate. Guatemala, similar to many countries, has been experiencing increasing fuel and corresponding electricity prices. As a result, TECO Guatemala’s operations are exposed to increased risks as the country’s government and regulatory authorities seek ways to reduce the cost of energy to its consumers. TECO Transport is exposed to operational risks in international ports, primarily due to its need for suitable labor and 27 Table of Contents equipment to safely discharge its cargoes in a timely manner. TECO Transport attempts to manage these risks through a variety of risk mitigation measures, including retaining agents with local knowledge and experience in successfully discharging cargoes and vessels similar to those used by TECO Transport. Changes in the environmental laws and regulations affecting our businesses could increase our costs or curtail our activities. Our businesses are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities dealing with air, water and other environmental matters. Changes in compliance requirements or the interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us or require us to curtail some of our businesses’ activities. We are currently defending lawsuits in which we could be liable for damages and responding to an informal inquiry of the SEC. TECO Energy and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in lawsuits, as more fully described under Legal Contingencies, in Note 12 to the TECO Energy Consolidated Financial Statements, regarding certain contracts, aspects of our business such as the location of transmission structures, and alleged disclosure violations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend to vigorously defend all of these proceedings, however, we cannot predict the ultimate resolution of any of these matters at this time, and there can be no assurance that these matters will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 28 Table of Contents 