Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment which presents a number of risks, many driven by factors we can neither control nor predict. The following list describes several risk factors that should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects or an investment in our Common Stock. Market acceptance. Our success depends on our ability to sell spare parts and supplies to users of our printing equipment. The acquisition of the Delphax Business in December 2001 significantly expanded our product lines to include the CR Series and RS Series of roll-fed printing equipment. To date, only a limited number of CR Series presses and RS Series print systems have been sold and there can be no assurance that these products can be sold in meaningful numbers in the future. In addition, some of our printing systems have been installed for many years. As these systems age and technology changes, users are decreasing the volume of production on our systems or replacing our systems with alternative technology, which results in less maintenance, spares and supplies revenue from these customers. If we are unable to sell a sufficient number of new printing systems, principally the CR Series and the Imaggia, to generate enough spares and supplies revenue to offset this decline, our total net sales will decline. Reliance on major customers. In fiscal 2006, we had two significant customers that individually accounted for 30% and 19% of net sales. This compares with 27% and 18% in fiscal 2005 and 20% each in fiscal 2004. Net sales from these two customers have been significant to total net sales. The loss of, or a significant decrease in net sales to, either of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. Our largest customer, John H. Harland Company, recently announced that it has agreed to be acquired by the parent company of Clarke American. It is unclear what impact, if any, this acquisition will have on us. Dependence on market growth. The digital printing industry in which we market our products is still developing and its growth is dependent on converting to digital printing applications that today are satisfied by traditional offset printing. While the traditional offset printing market is flat or declining, over the last five years, the digital printing market has grown at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 24%. There can be no assurance that the market growth for digital printing will continue. Highly competitive industry. We face intense competition in the digital printing market. We expect technology to continue to develop rapidly, and our success will depend to a large extent on our ability to maintain a competitive position with our products. Our competitors in the digital printing market include large, established manufacturers of digital printing equipment. Companies such as IBM Corporation, Océ N.V. and Xerox Corporation typically offer their own financing packages as part of their digital printing equipment offering. 9 Table of Contents In addition to having a competitive advantage in marketing financing packages as part of their digital printing equipment offering, our competitors have significantly greater capital and staffing resources for research and development that are critical to success in the dynamic digital printing industry, more recognizable brand names, and more well-established marketing and distribution networks. Although price has been less significant than other factors, increasing competition may result in price reductions and reduced gross margins. Exposure to manufacturing or design defects. Our printing systems are complex and may contain undetected and unexpected defects, errors or failures. If these product defects are substantial, the result could be product recalls, field upgrades, an increased amount of product returns, loss of market acceptance and damage to our reputation, all of which could increase our costs and cause us to lose sales. We may not deliver systems that we have introduced on a timely basis. These delays, which may occur on future product introductions, may allow competition to respond to our plans, which could impact revenue, or result in the introduction of competing products that reduce the innovative value of our products or could be technologically superior to the product we introduced. Uncertain protection for intellectual property; possible claims of others. Although we have received patents with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely on patent protection with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate technologies. In addition, to the extent that we may apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. We do not believe that our products and technologies infringe any existing patents or intellectual property rights of third parties. However, our products and technologies may infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of third parties. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we were ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies were found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Requirements for availability of working capital. We depend on our revolving credit facilities for working capital. The lenders have a security interest in substantially all of the Company’s assets. Our ability to borrow under the credit facilities depends on: (i) maintaining a borrowing base of eligible accounts receivable and, to a lesser extent, eligible inventory and (ii) complying with financial covenants concerning tangible net worth; debt service coverage; interest coverage; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; and maximum capital expenditures. If the Company is unable to generate a sufficient borrowing base or comply with the financial covenants and other requirements of the credit facilities as amended subsequent to September 30, 2006, it will limit or prevent borrowing under the credit facilities and could have a serious adverse effect on the Company. Substantial operations in foreign markets. Delphax has foreign subsidiaries in Canada, the United Kingdom and France, and systems using Delphax EBI technology have been placed in more than 60 countries. We generate approximately 20% to 30% of our net sales from outside North America. The ability to sell products in foreign markets may be affected by changes in economic, political or market conditions in those foreign markets that are outside the Company’s control. The Company’s net investment in its foreign subsidiaries was a deficit of $0.7 million at September 30, 2006 as a result of accumulated subsidiary losses, compared with an investment of $7.1 million at September 30, 2005, translated into U.S. dollars at the closing exchange rates. The potential loss based on end-of-period balances and prevailing exchange rates resulting from a hypothetical 10% strengthening of the dollar against foreign currencies was not material for the years then ended. The functional currency of the Canadian subsidiary is the U.S. dollar. The functional currencies of the subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and France are Pounds Sterling and the Euro, respectively. 10 Table of Contents Net sales are subject to fluctuations, which may be material. Our net sales and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter because the sales cycle is relatively long, the size of orders may vary significantly, the availability of financing for customers in some countries is variable, customers may postpone or cancel orders, and economic, political and market conditions in some markets change with minimal notice and affect the timing and size of orders. Because operating expenses are based on anticipated net sales levels and a high percentage of the operating costs are relatively fixed in the short-term, variations in the timing of revenue recognition could result in significant fluctuations in operating results from period to period. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of fiscal 2006. 