Item 1A. Risk Factors Market Risk Delphax has foreign subsidiaries in Canada, the United Kingdom and France. We do business in more than 60 countries and generate approximately 20% to 30% of our net sales from outside North America. Our ability to sell our products in foreign markets may be affected by changes in economic, political or market conditions in the foreign markets in which we do business. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company’s net investment in its foreign subsidiaries was $7.1 million and $7.3 million at September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively, translated into U.S. dollars at the closing exchange rates. The potential loss based on end-of-period balances and prevailing exchange rates resulting from a hypothetical 10% strengthening of the dollar against foreign currencies was not material in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004. The functional currency of the Canadian subsidiary is the U.S. dollar. From time to time, the Company has entered into foreign exchange contracts as a hedge against specific foreign currency receivables. In fiscal 2005 and 2004, the Company did not enter into any foreign exchange contracts. However, strategies to reduce the magnitude of gains or losses will be reviewed and implemented whenever economical and practical. Interest Rate Risk Substantially all of our senior debt and the associated interest expense are sensitive to changes in the level of interest rates. A hypothetical 100 basis point (one percentage point) increase in interest rates would result in incremental interest expense in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 of approximately $62,000, $95,000 and $119,000, respectively. Interest on the $3.0 million of outstanding Convertible Notes is determined by dividing the monetary value of the accrued interest at a fixed 7% rate by the initial conversion price of $3.20 per common share, or 16,406 shares of Common Stock. Interest expense on the Convertible Notes is recorded quarterly based on the fair value of the 16,406 shares issued quarterly in payment of interest, measured at the average closing price of the Common Stock over the period. Accordingly, interest expense on the Convertible Notes may fluctuate from quarter to quarter but is not subject to interest rate risk. Risk Related to Operations The Company’s operations are subject to a number of risks, which include but are not limited to the following: Limited sales of our new product lines. Acquisition of the Delphax Business in December 2001 significantly expanded our product lines to include the CR Series and RS Series of roll-fed printing equipment. To date, a limited number of CR Series presses and RS Series print system have been sold and there can be no assurance that these products can be sold in meaningful numbers in the future. Reliance on two significant customers. In fiscal 2005, we had two significant customers that individually accounted for 27% and 18% of net sales. We anticipate, but cannot assure, that these customers will continue to be significant in fiscal 2006. The loss of, or a significant decrease in sales to, either of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. Requirements for availability of working capital. We depend on our revolving credit facilities for working capital. The lender has a security interest in substantially all of the Company’s assets. Our ability to borrow under the credit facilities depends on maintaining a borrowing base of eligible accounts receivable and, to a lesser extent, eligible inventory and complying with financial covenants concerning tangible net worth, debt service coverage, interest coverage and maximum capital expenditures. If the Company is unable to generate a sufficient borrowing base and comply with the financial covenants and other requirements of the credit facilities, it will limit or prevent borrowing under the credit facilities and could have a serious adverse effect on the Company. 9 Table of Contents Substantial operations in foreign markets. Delphax has foreign subsidiaries in Canada, the United Kingdom and France, does business in more than 60 countries and generates approximately 20% to 30% of its net sales from outside North America. The ability to sell products in foreign markets may be affected by changes in economic, political or market conditions in those foreign markets that are outside the Company’s control. Net sales are subject to fluctuations, which may be material. Our net sales and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter because the sales cycle is relatively long, the size of orders may vary significantly, the availability of financing for customers in some countries is variable, customers may postpone or cancel orders, and economic, political and market conditions in some markets change with minimal notice and affect the timing and size of orders. Because operating expenses are based on anticipated net sales levels and a high percentage of the operating costs are relatively fixed, variations in the timing of revenue recognition could result in significant fluctuations in operating results from period to period. 