ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Liquidity Risk Our liquidity is highly dependent on our (i) cash reserves (ii) availability on our credit facility and (iii)our ability to achieve our planned operating cashflows .. In the event there is an unexpected downturn in our business or we are unable to achieve our operating goals, the Company would need to modify its debt agreements, curtail operations and obtain alternative funding in a challenging credit environment. We generated an operating cash flow deficit of $118,534 for 2009. We paid down the outstanding balance on our line of credit by $619,651, which decreased the outstanding balance on our credit facility to $838,231as of December 31, 2009 from $1,458,183 as of December 31 2008. Since our borrowing capacity is limited by the level of our eligible trade receivables, more reliance will be placed on our ability to achieve planned operating performance to fund our debt payments coming due in the next twelve months. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned operating goals nor give any assurance of our ability to obtain alternative financing. We depend on contracts with the federal government for a substantial majority of our revenue, and our business could be seriously harmed if the government significantly decreased or ceased doing business with us. We derived 93% of our total revenue in FY 2009 and 93% of our total revenue in FY 2008 from federal government contracts, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor. We expect that federal government contracts will continue to be the primary source of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, with the General Services Administration, or any significant agency in the intelligence community or the Department of Defense (“DoD”), or if our reputation or relationship with government agencies were to be impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Because we depend on government contracts for most of our revenues, loss of government contracts or a reduction in funding of government contracts could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. Revenue from contracts with agencies of the United States government either as a prime or a subcontractor accounted for approximately $14,483,165, or 93% of revenues, for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to $15,149,944, or 93% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our government contracts are incrementally funded for periods ranging up to twelve months, and the government agencies may require re-bidding before a contract is renewed, with no assurance that we will be awarded an extension of the contract. Further, agencies of the United States government may cancel these contracts at any time without penalty or may change their requirements, programs or contract budget or decline to exercise options. Any such action by the government agencies could result in a material decline in our revenues and cash flows. 5 We derive a significant portion of our revenues from two multi-year contract vehicles. Approximately 73% of our 2009 revenues versus 68% in 2008 come from two contract vehicles (Seaport-e and SSA Task orders) under Joint Program Manager Information Systems (JPMIS). These contracts are multi-year contracts (base year plus four option years) and are incrementally funded for interim periods up to twelve months. A termination or modification of these contracts would seriously harm our business and have a material impact on the Company’s revenues and cash flows. Because we sell our products and services in highly competitive markets, we may not be able to compete effectively. Competition for our products and services are highly competitive. In offering our services, we compete with a number of companies some of which are considerably larger than we are, including major defense contractors who offer technology services as well as other products to government agencies. In addition, there are numerous smaller companies that offer both general and specialized services to both government agencies and commercial customers. In marketing our technology products, we compete with a number of large companies, including defense contractors, and smaller companies. In selecting vendors, the government agencies consider such factors as whether the product meets the specifications, the price at which the product is sold and the perceived ability of the vendor to deliver the product in a timely manner. Competitors may use our financial condition and history of losses in competing with us. 6 We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain parts, the loss of which could result in production delays and additional expenses. Although most of the parts used in our products are available from a number of different suppliers on an off-the-shelf basis, certain parts are available from only one supplier, specifically, certain circuit boards from Natural Micro Systems. Although we believe that our technology is adaptable to other suppliers; it would require two to four months of development work that could delay other engineering initiatives, and as a result the added costs and delays could hurt our business. If our products and services fail to perform or perform improperly, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected and we could be subject to legal action to recover losses incurred by our customers. Products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors or “bugs,” which may result in product failures or security breaches or otherwise fail to perform in accordance with customer expectations. Any failure of our systems could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, we cannot assure you that our existing coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The occurrence of errors could result in loss of data to us or our customers which could cause a loss of revenue, failure to achieve acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, or damages to our efforts to build brand awareness, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our market share, revenues and, in turn, our operating results. Changes in technology and our ability to enhance our existing products, including research and development, will require technical and financial resources, the unavailability of which could hinder sales of our products and result in decreased revenues. The markets for our products, especially the telecommunications industry, change rapidly because of technological innovation, changes in customer requirements, declining prices, and evolving industry standards, among other factors. To be competitive, we must both develop or have access to the most current technology and incorporate this technology in our products in a manner acceptable to our customers. Our failure to offer our customers the most current technology could affect their willingness to purchase our products, which would, in turn, impair our ability to generate revenue. If we lose our security clearance our business could be adversely affected. Certain of our contracts with government agencies require us to maintain security clearances. Although our subsidiaries have the clearances necessary to perform under our current contracts, the federal government could at any time in its discretion remove these security clearances, which could effect our ability to get new contracts. If we make any acquisitions, they may disrupt or have a negative impact on our business. We have recently made acquisitions and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. If we make acquisitions, we could have difficulty integrating the acquired companies’ personnel and operations with our own. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired business may not be willing to work for us. We cannot predict the affect expansion may have on our core business. Regardless of whether we are successful in making an acquisition, the negotiations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. In addition to the risks described above, acquisitions are accompanied by a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, the following: · the difficulty of integrating acquired products, services or operations; 7 · the potential disruption of the ongoing businesses and distraction of our management and the management of acquired companies; · the difficulty of incorporating acquired rights or products into our existing business; · difficulties in disposing of the excess or idle facilities of an acquired company or business and expenses in maintaining such facilities; · difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; 8 · the potential impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; · the potential inability or failure to achieve additional sales and enhance our customer base through cross-marketing of the products to new and existing customers; · the effect of any government regulations which relate to the business acquired; and · potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses or product lines, or the need to spend significant amounts to retool, reposition or modify the marketing and sales of acquired products or the defense of any litigation, whether of not successful, resulting from actions of the acquired company prior to our acquisition. Our business could be severely impaired if and to the extent that we are unable to succeed in addressing any of these risks or other problems encountered in connection with these acquisitions, many of which cannot be presently identified, these risks and problems could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to enhance our existing products to address the needs of other markets. The first step on realizing our business development strategy requires us to enhance current products so they can meet the needs of other markets. If we are unable to do this, we may not be able to increase our sales and further develop our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK The potential issuance of a significant number of shares upon exercise or conversion of convertible securities and notes may depress the market price of our common stock. As of April 13, 2010, we had 22,929,959 shares of common stock issued and 22,917,379 outstanding. Additionally, we have 37,936,772 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our preferred stock and warrants. The sale or potential sale of these shares issuable pursuant to convertible securities and warrants may result is substantial dilution to the holders of common stock and these factors may have a depressive effect upon the market price of our common stock. The volatility of and limited trading market in our common stock may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Over the past two fiscal years, the market price for our common stock has ranged from $0.05 to $0.65. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be very volatile. Further, our common stock is not actively traded, which may amplify the volatility of our stock. These factors may make it more difficult for you to sell shares of common stock. 9 Our common stock may be deemed a “penny stock,” which would make it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules generally apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market or other national securities exchange and trades at less than $4.00 per share, other than companies that have had average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the last three years or that have tangible net worth of at least $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market for our securities. If our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N/A ITEM 