Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a rapidly changing and competitive economic and technological environment which presents a number of risks, many driven by factors we can neither control nor predict. The following list describes several risk factors that should be considered carefully, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the SEC in connection with any evaluation of our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects or an investment in our Common Stock. Risks Related to Product Acceptance and Operations Market acceptance. Our business depends on our ability to sell maintenance, spare parts and supplies to users of our printing equipment, and to sell new printing equipment to generate new sales of maintenance, spare parts and supplies. To date, only a limited number of CR Series presses have been sold and no new Imaggia systems were sold in fiscal 2006 or 2007. There can be no assurance that these presses can be sold in meaningful numbers in the future. In addition, some of our printing systems have been installed for many years. As these older systems age and technology changes, users are decreasing the volume of production on our systems or replacing our systems with alternative technology, which results in less maintenance, spare parts and supplies revenue from these customers. If we are unable to sell a sufficient number of new printing systems, principally the CR Series and the Imaggia, to generate enough spare parts and supplies revenue to offset this decline, our total net sales will continue to decline. Reliance on major customers. In fiscal 2007, we had two significant customers, Harland Clarke and RR Donnelley, which individually accounted for 33% and 21% of net sales, respectively. This compares with 30% and 19% in fiscal 2006 and 27% and 18% in fiscal 2005, respectively. Net sales from these two customers have been significant to total net sales. The loss of, or a significant decrease in net sales to, either of these customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. Our largest 10 customer, Harland, was acquired in May 2007. While there can be no certainty concerning actions planned or under consideration by the acquirer, considering the very significant investment Harland has made in Delphax equipment and the multi-year maintenance agreement with Harland currently in effect through December 31, 2008, we expect the acquisition will have no significant impact on our business in the near term. For the long-term, it is unclear what impact, if any, the acquisition will have on us. The effect could be positive (purchase of additional products and services from us), negative (reduced or discontinued use of our equipment currently in service) or no change (business as usual). Dependence on market growth. The digital printing industry in which we market our products is still developing and its growth is dependent on converting to digital printing applications that today are satisfied by traditional offset printing. While the traditional offset printing market is flat or declining, over the last five years, the digital printing market has grown at a compound annual growth rate of over 20%. There can be no assurance that the market growth for digital printing will continue. Highly competitive industry. We face intense competition in the digital printing market. We expect technology to continue to develop rapidly, and our success will depend to a large extent on our ability to maintain a competitive position with our products. Our competitors in the digital printing market are principally large, established manufacturers of digital printing equipment, such as Heidelberg, Hitachi, Kodak, Nipson, Océ, Ricoh/IBM and Xerox. Companies such as Océ N.V., Ricoh/IBM and Xerox Corporation typically offer their own financing packages as part of their digital printing equipment offering. In addition to having a competitive advantage in marketing financing packages as part of their digital printing equipment offering, our competitors have significantly greater capital and staffing resources for research and development, more recognizable brand names, and more well-established marketing and distribution networks. Although price has been less significant than other factors, increasing competition may result in price reductions and reduced gross margins. Exposure to manufacturing or design defects. Our printing systems are complex and may contain undetected and unexpected defects, errors or failures. If these product defects are substantial, the result could be product recalls, field upgrades, an increased amount of product returns, loss of market acceptance and damage to our reputation, all of which could increase our costs and cause us to lose sales. We may not deliver systems that we have introduced on a timely basis. These delays, which may occur on future product introductions, may allow competition to respond to our plans, which could impact revenue, or result in the introduction of competing products that reduce the innovative value of our products or could be technologically superior to the product we introduced. Uncertain protection for intellectual property; possible claims of others. Although we have received patents with respect to certain aspects of our technology, we generally do not rely on patent protection with respect to our products and technologies. Instead, we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to our products and technologies. Such measures may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate technologies. In addition, to the extent that we may apply for any patents, such applications may not result in issued patents or, if issued, such patents may not be valid or of value. We do not believe that our products and technologies infringe any existing patents or intellectual property rights of third parties. However, our products and technologies may infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of third parties. The costs of prosecuting or defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could adversely affect our business, even if we were ultimately successful in prosecuting or defending any such claims. If our products or technologies were found to infringe the rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees or cease production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Risks Related to Working Capital and Stock Listing Requirements for availability of working capital. We depend on our revolving credit facilities for working capital. The lenders have a security interest in substantially all of the Company’s assets. Our ability to borrow under the credit facilities depends on: (i) maintaining a borrowing base of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory and (ii) complying with financial covenants concerning minimum net income, debt service coverage and availability, and maximum capital expenditures. If the Company is unable to generate a sufficient borrowing base or comply with the financial covenants and other requirements of the credit facilities, it will limit or prevent borrowing under the credit facilities and could have a serious adverse effect on the Company. Notice from NASDAQ as to continued eligibility for NASDAQ listing. In October 2007 we received notice from NASDAQ that our Common Stock does not comply with NASDAQ rules for continued listing as a result of the bid price for our Common Stock being below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. We can regain compliance if the bid price closes at $1.00 per share or higher for at least ten consecutive business days prior to April 28, 2008, although NASDAQ may, in its discretion, require compliance for a longer period (generally no more than 20 consecutive business days) to demonstrate the ability to maintain long-term compliance. The deadline for compliance might be extended in certain circumstances. If the Company’s stock does not comply with NASDAQ rules for continued listing, it will be delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market, and would likely trade on the OTC Bulletin Board. Such a change would reduce the liquidity of the Company’s Common Stock. Risks Related to Foreign Operations and Currencies Substantial sales in foreign markets. Delphax has foreign subsidiaries in Canada, the United Kingdom and France, and systems using Delphax EBI technology have been placed in more than 50 countries. We generate approximately 20% to 30% of our net sales from outside North America. The ability to sell products in foreign markets may be affected by changes in economic, political or market conditions in those foreign markets that are outside the Company’s control. The Company’s net investment in its foreign subsidiaries, translated into U.S. dollars at the closing exchange rates, was a deficit of $3.0 million at September 30, 2007, compared with a deficit of $0.7 million at September 30, 2006 as a result of accumulated subsidiary losses. Substantial costs in Canadian dollars. We estimate that approximately 40% of our costs in any period (principally payroll and inventory acquisition costs) are paid in Canadian dollars. Substantially all of our manufacturing operations and our research and development activities are conducted by our Canadian subsidiary, which, unlike our other foreign subsidiaries, does not generate any cash inflows in its local currency. In periods where the U.S. dollar has declined, higher manufacturing costs and higher operating expenses are incurred in U.S. dollars for the same expenditures on a local currency basis. The recent declines in the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar have increased our operating costs. Based on current operating levels and prevailing exchange rates, USD1.00 to CDN1.00 at September 30, 2007, a hypothetical 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar, would increase our costs approximately $1.5 million to $2.0 million per year. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 12 