Item 1A. Risk Factors If we do not compete effectively, our business will suffer. We confront aggressive competition in the sale of our products. In each of the markets in which we sell our products, we compete with a number of national and regional competitors. Competition in the automotive market is particularly intense, with many national and regional companies marketing competitive products. Many of our competitors in the automotive market are more established and have greater financial resources than we do. Our Performacide® disinfectant/sanitizing products have only recently been introduced, and we confront competition from a large number of competitors, many of which are well established and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Our inability to successfully compete in our principal markets would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Economic conditions can adversely affect our business. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets, which may impair the ability of our customers to satisfy obligations due to us. In addition, we believe that adverse economic conditions in recent years adversely constrained discretionary spending, which we believe has, at times, adversely affected our product lines, particularly those directed to the marine and recreational vehicle markets. While economic conditions in the United States have improved recently, a future decline in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to effectively utilize or successfully assert intellectual property rights could materially adversely affect our competitiveness. We rely on trademarks and trade names in connection with our products, the most significant of which are Star brite® and Star Tron®. In addition, OdorStar owns patents we have viewed as providing competitive support for our Performacide® products. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure that these intellectual property rights will be effectively utilized or, if necessary, successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own intellectual property rights, or, where appropriate, license from others intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. Our intellectual property rights, and any additional rights we may obtain in the future, may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In this regard, beginning in 2013, OdorStar and Kinpak pursued a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida with respect to OdorStar's U.S. patent relating to a delivery system for use with products containing chlorine dioxide, but the District Court granted the defendants' motion for summary judgment, which the Court of Appeals affirmed on January 27, 2015. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this report for additional information. We are unable to predict the long-term effect of the adverse outcome. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Environmental matters may cause potential liability risks. We must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in connection with our operations, including those relating to the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. A release of such substances due to accident or intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties. In addition, we are subject to reporting requirements with respect to certain materials we use in our manufacturing operations. In January 2011, Kinpak, which owns our manufacturing facility in Montgomery, Alabama, became subject to a consent agreement and final order with the United States Environmental Protection Agency relating to its alleged failure to complete and submit certain required forms with respect to toxic and hazardous chemicals used at its facilities. Under the consent agreement and final order, Kinpak paid a civil penalty of $110,000. It is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our variable rate indebtedness exposes us to risks related to interest rate fluctuation and matures in July 2016. The Company has a revolving line of credit with a variable interest rate. Interest on the revolving line of credit is payable at the 30 day LIBOR rate plus 1.65% per annum (unless the Company’s debt service coverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement, falls below 2.0 to 1, in which case the additional percentage will be 2.65% per annum). During the year ended December 31, 2014, we did not utilize the revolving line of credit, and at December 31, 2014, we did not have any borrowings outstanding under the revolving line of credit. However, if we borrow amounts under the revolving line of credit in the future, and if interest rates were to increase significantly, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 4 Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is a majority shareholder who controls us, and his interest may conflict with or differ from the Company's interests. Peter G. Dornau, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, together with a family entity he controls, owns approximately 53% of our Common Stock. As a result, Mr. Dornau has the power to elect all of our directors and effectively has the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our Board of Directors and our shareholders. Products that we manufacture and that are sold outside of the United States and Canada are purchased from us and distributed by two companies owned by Mr. Dornau, which we refer to as the “affiliated companies.” Sales to the affiliated companies aggregated approximately $1,956,000 and $1,834,000 during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. An affiliated company owns the rights to the Star brite® and Star Tron® trademarks and related products outside of the United States and Canada. In addition, we provided administrative services to the affiliated companies for fees aggregating approximately $478,000 and $406,000 during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. While the terms of the sales to the affiliated companies differed from the terms of sale to other customers, the affiliated companies bear their own warehousing, distribution, advertising, selling and marketing costs, as well as their own freight charges (we pay freight charges in connection with sales to our domestic customers on all but small orders). Moreover, we do not pay sales commissions with respect to products sold to the affiliated companies. As a result, we believe our profit margins with respect to sales to the affiliated companies are similar to the profit margins we realize with respect to sales to our larger domestic customers. Management believes that the sales to the affiliated companies did not involve more than normal credit risk or present other unfavorable features. We have entered into other transactions with entities owned by Mr. Dornau. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional information Trading in our Common Stock has been limited, and our stock price could potentially be subject to substantial fluctuations. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, but trading in our stock has been limited. Our stock price could be affected substantially by a relatively modest volume of transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 