Item 1A. Risk Factors If we do not compete effectively, our business will suffer. We confront aggressive competition in the sale of our products. In each of the markets in which we sell our products, we compete with a number of national and regional competitors. Competition in the automotive market is particularly intense, with many national and regional companies marketing competitive products. Many of our competitors in the automotive market are more established and have greater financial resources than we do. Our inability to successfully compete in our principal markets would harm our business. 6 Economic conditions can adversely affect our business. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets, which may impair the ability of our customers to satisfy obligations due to us. In addition, adverse economic conditions in recent years have adversely affected discretionary spending, which can have an indirect adverse affect on our product lines, particularly those directed to the marine and recreational vehicle markets. While our net sales increased in 2011, a decline in economic conditions could have an adverse affect on our net sales and results of operations. Failure to effectively utilize or successfully assert intellectual property rights could materially adversely affect our competitiveness. We rely on trademarks and trade names in connection with our products, the most significant of which are Star brite® and Star Tron®. OdorStar also owns patents we consider important to our business. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure that these intellectual property rights will be effectively utilized or, if necessary, successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own intellectual property rights, or, where appropriate, license from others intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. Even if we obtain these rights, they may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Environmental matters may cause potential liability risks. We must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in connection with our operations, including those relating to the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. A release of such substances due to accident or intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties. In addition, we are subject to reporting requirements with respect to certain materials we use in our manufacturing operations. In January 2011, Kinpak, which owns our manufacturing facility in Montgomery, Alabama, became subject to a consent agreement and final order with the United States Environmental Protection Agency relating to its alleged failure to complete and submit certain required forms with respect to toxic and hazardous chemicals used at its facilities. Under the consent agreement and final order, Kinpak agreed to pay a civil penalty of $110,000. It is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our variable rate indebtedness exposes us to risks related to interest rate fluctuation. The Company has a revolving line of credit with a variable interest rate. Interest on the revolving line of credit is payable at the 30 day LIBOR rate plus 1.74% per annum (unless the Company’s debt service coverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement, falls below 2.0 to 1, in which case the additional percentage will be 2.75% per annum). In no event will the interest rate be less than 2.0% per annum. If interest rates were to increase significantly, our cash flow and results of operations would be adversely affected. 7 Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is a majority shareholder who controls us, and his interest may conflict with or differ from the Company's interests. Peter G. Dornau, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, owns approximately 57% of our Common Stock. As a result, Mr. Dornau has the power to elect all of our directors and effectively has the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our Board of Directors and our shareholders. In addition, Mr. Dornau owns two companies that do business with the Company. Transactions with these affiliated companies made in the ordinary course of business were not made on substantially the same terms and conditions as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with other customers. Management believes that the sales transactions did not involve more than normal credit risk or present other unfavorable features. We have entered into other transactions with entities owned by Mr. Dornau. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional information. Trading in our Common Stock has been limited, and our stock price could potentially be subject to substantial fluctuations. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, but trading in our stock has been limited. Our stock price could be affected substantially by a relatively modest volume of transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 