Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporations future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among other things, should be considered in evaluating our business and future outlook. Additional risks not currently identified or known to us could also negatively impact our financial results. This annual report on Form 10-K and other written reports and public statements made by us from time to time may contain statements which, to the extent they are not based on historical fact, constitute forward looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management’s expectations, assumptions and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effect upon the Corporation. While we believe in good faith that these expectations, assumptions and beliefs are reasonable, investors are cautioned that all forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainties and may therefore be materially different from actual results. Investors should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase, sell or hold our securities: The Offer and the Merger may be delayed or may not be completed. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement (previously filed with the SEC by BZ Acquisition on February 23, 2007 as an exhibit to its Schedule TO) the Offer, currently scheduled to expire on March 16, 2007, may be extended for a period up to 40 business days in the aggregate. The obligation of Steel Partners II to close the Offer is subject to a number of conditions described in the Merger Agreement. The obligation of Steel Partners II to effect the Merger following the closing of the Offer is also subject to a number of conditions and, unless Steel Partners II holds at least 90% of the outstanding shares on a fully diluted basis after the closing of the Offer, approval of the Merger by the shareholders (including Steel Partners II and its affiliates) will be required, which could take several months to procure. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that either the Offer or the Merger will be completed in a timely manner, or completed at all. A decline in governmental funding for military operations. If, as a result of a loss of funding or a significant cut in federal budgets, spending on military projects were to be reduced significantly, our earnings and cash flows related to the Electronic Materials segment could be negatively effected. Potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuations of electricity, natural gas and other petroleum based products. In our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, natural gas, fuel and other petroleum-based commodities, including adhesives and other products. The availability and pricing of these commodities are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such commodities and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors interrupting their availability. Last year, particularly in the Gulf Coast region affected by severe hurricanes, supplies of these commodities were occasionally disrupted and subject to tremendous price fluctuations. Variability in the supply and prices of these commodities could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. Weather can materially affect our quarterly results. A significant portion of our business in the Kasco segment involves on-site delivery, service and repair. In addition, a significant amount of our business in the Coated Materials segment is to the outdoor sign industry. Inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our products and affects our customers’ short-term demand since their work also can be hampered by weather. Therefore, our results can be negatively affected by inclement weather. Severe weather such as hurricanes, tropical storms and earthquakes can damage our facilities, resulting in increased repair costs and business disruption. We operate in a highly competitive industry. In our served markets, we compete against large private and public companies. This results in intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. In addition, the ongoing move of our customer base in the Electronics segment to low cost China manufacturing reduces pricing and increases competition. Significant competition could in turn lead to lower prices, lower levels of shipments and/or higher costs in some markets that could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Industry consolidation creates more purchasing power for fewer, larger customers. The electronics industry, sign industry and supermarket industry have all experienced recent consolidations. This trend tends to put more purchasing power in the hands of a few large customers who can dictate lower prices of our products. Failure to effectively negotiate pricing agreements and implement on-going cost down projects can have a material negative impact on our profitability. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We continually evaluate opportunities for growth through strategic acquisitions. We believe that there are risks related to acquiring businesses including overpaying for acquisitions, losing key employees of the acquired business, unanticipated costs associated with the acquisitions, diversion of management time and resources, increased legal and compliance costs and unanticipated liabilities of an acquired company. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our future success depends greatly upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel. A significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified personnel is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. Litigation could affect our profitability. The nature of our business exposes us to various litigation matters including product liability claims, employment, health and safety matters, environmental matters, regulatory and administrative proceedings. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of any litigation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimation process. # Available Information: We maintain an Internet address at www.bairnco.com. We make available free of charge through our Internet website this annual report of Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, if any, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Paper copies of these filings are also available, free of charge, by sending a request in writing to Bairnco Corporation, Attn: Corporate Secretary, 300 Primera Boulevard, Suite 432, Lake Mary, Florida 32746. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics that applies to all our Directors, Officers and employees, as well as a Financial Code of Ethical Conduct, both of which are available on our Internet website. We intend to disclose on our Internet website, any waivers of or amendments to these codes as they apply to our Directors and Executive Officers. Each of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors has adopted a written charter addressing various issues of importance relative to each committee, including the committees’ purposes and responsibilities, an annual performance evaluation of each committee and other relevant issues. We have also adopted a set of Corporate Governance Guidelines to address issues of fundamental importance to the governance of the Corporation, including director qualifications and responsibilities. These guidelines and committee charters are available on our Internet website. Paper copies of these guidelines and committee charters are also available, free of charge, by sending a request in writing to Bairnco Corporation, Attn: Corporate Secretary, 300 Primera Boulevard, Suite 432, Lake Mary, Florida 32746. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are required to file with the SEC each quarter and each year certifications regarding the quality of the Corporation’s public disclosure of its financial condition. The annual certifications are included as Exhibits to this annual report on Form 10-K. Our Chief Executive Officer is also required to certify to the New York Stock Exchange each year that he is not aware of any violation by the Corporation of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance listing standards. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. # 