Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to substantial competition in all aspects of its business. The Company’s ability to market investment products is highly dependent on access to the various distribution systems of national and regional securities dealer firms, which generally offer competing internally and externally managed investment products. Although the Company has historically been successful in maintaining access to these channels, there can be no assurance that it will continue to do so. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. There are few barriers to entry in the investment management business. The Company’s funds and separate accounts compete against an ever-increasing number of investment products and services sold to the public by investment dealers, banks, insurance companies and others. Many institutions competing with the Company have greater resources than the Company. The Company competes with other providers of investment products on the basis of the products offered, the investment performance of such products, quality of service, fees charged, the level and type of financial intermediary compensation, the manner in which such products are marketed and distributed, and the services provided to investors. The Company derives almost all of its revenue from investment adviser and administration fees and distribution income received from the Eaton Vance funds, other pooled investment vehicles and separate accounts. As a result, the Company is dependent upon management contracts, administration contracts, underwriting contracts or service contracts under which these fees and income are paid. If any of these contracts are terminated, not renewed, or amended to reduce fees, the Company’s financial results may be adversely affected. The Company’s assets under management, which impact revenue, are subject to significant fluctuations. The major sources of revenue for the Company (i.e., investment adviser, administration, distribution, and service fees) are calculated as percentages of assets under management. A decline in securities prices or in the sale of investment products or an increase in fund redemptions generally would reduce fee income. Financial market declines or adverse changes in interest rates would generally negatively impact the level of the Company’s assets under management and consequently its revenue and net income. A recession or other economic or political events could also adversely impact the Company’s revenue if it led to a decreased demand for products, a higher redemption rate, or a decline in securities prices. Like other businesses, the Company’s actual results could be affected by the loss of key employees through competition or retirement. The Company’s operations and actual results could also be affected by increased expenses due to such factors as greater competition for personnel, higher costs for distribution of mutual funds and other investment products, costs for insurance and other services by outside providers, or by the disruption of services such as power, communications, information technology, fund transfer agency or fund administration. The Company’s business is subject to substantial governmental regulation. Changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax and compliance requirements could have a significant effect on the Company’s operations and results, including but not limited to increased expenses and reduced investor interest in certain funds and other investment products offered by the Company. The Company 12 continually monitors legislative, tax, regulatory, accounting, and compliance developments that could impact its business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 