Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our investment management business and there are few barriers to entry. Our funds and separate accounts compete against a large number of investment products and services sold to the public by investment management companies, investment dealers, banks, insurance companies and others. Many institutions we compete with have greater financial resources than us. We compete with other providers of investment products on the basis of the products offered, the investment performance of such products, quality of service, fees charged, the level and type of financial intermediary compensation, the manner in which such products are marketed and distributed, reputation and the services provided to investors. Our ability to market investment products is highly dependent on access to the various distribution systems of national and regional securities dealer firms, which generally offer competing affiliated and externally managed investment products that could limit the distribution of our investment products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain access to these channels. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or broaden distribution relationships with our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenue and net income could decline. We derive almost all of our revenue from investment advisory and administration fees, distribution income and service fees received from the Eaton Vance funds and separate accounts. As a result, we are dependent upon management contracts, administration contracts, distribution contracts, underwriting contracts or service contracts under which these fees and income are paid. Generally, these contracts are terminable upon 30 to 60 days’ notice without penalty. If any of these contracts are terminated, not renewed, or amended to reduce fees, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our assets under management, which impact revenue, are subject to significant fluctuations. Our major sources of revenue (i.e., investment advisory, administration, distribution, and service fees) are generally calculated as percentages of assets under management. Any decrease in the level of our assets under management could negatively impact our revenue and net income. For example, a decline in securities prices or in the sales of our investment products or an increase in fund redemptions or client withdrawals generally would reduce fee income. Financial market declines generally have a negative impact on the level of our assets under management and consequently our revenue and net income. To the extent that we receive fee revenue from assets under management that are derived from financial leverage, any reduction in leverage used would adversely impact the level of our assets under management, revenue and net income. For example, leverage could be reduced due to an adverse change in interest rates, a decrease in the availability of credit on favorable terms or a determination by us to reduce or eliminate leverage on certain products when we determine that the use of leverage is no longer in our clients’ best interests. Leverage on certain investment funds was reduced in fiscal 2008 to maintain minimum debt coverage ratios amidst declining markets. The recession we are experiencing could further adversely impact our revenue if it leads to a decreased demand for investment products and services, a higher redemption rate or a further decline in securities prices. Any further decreases in the level of our assets under management due to securities price declines, reduction in leverage or other factors would negatively impact our revenue and net income. We may need to raise additional capital or refinance existing debt in the future, and resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. Our ability to enter the capital markets in a timely manner depends on a number of factors, including the state of global credit and equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and our credit ratings. If we are unable to access capital markets to issue new debt, refinance existing debt or sell shares of our Non-Voting Common Stock as needed, or if we are unable to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, our business could be adversely impacted. 14 Poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the amount of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting revenue and net income. Investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client service, is critical to our success. While strong investment performance could stimulate sales of our investment products, poor investment performance on an absolute basis or as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales and stimulate higher redemptions, thereby lowering the amount of assets under management and reducing the investment advisory fees we earn. Past or present performance in the investment products we manage is not indicative of future performance. Our success depends on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified portfolio managers, analysts, investment counselors, sales and management personnel and other key professionals, including our executive officers. Our key employees do not have employment contracts and may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. Certain senior executives and directors are subject to our mandatory retirement policy. The loss of the services of key personnel or our failure to attract replacement or additional qualified personnel could negatively affect our financial performance. An increase in compensation to attract or retain personnel could result in a decrease in net income. Our expenses are subject to fluctuations that could materially affect our operating results. Our results of operations are dependent on the level of expenses, which can vary significantly from period to period. Our expenses may fluctuate as a result of variations in the level of compensation, expenses incurred to support distribution of our investment products, expenses incurred to enhance our infrastructure (including technology and compliance) and impairments of intangible assets or goodwill. Our reputation could be damaged. We have spent over 80 years building a reputation of high integrity, prudent investment management and superior client service. Our reputation is extremely important to our success. Any damage to our reputation could result in client withdrawals from funds or separate accounts that are advised by us and ultimately impede our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of either client relationships or key personnel could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us to suffer a loss in revenue or a reduction in net income. We are subject to federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules, and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including, among others, the SEC, FINRA, the FSA and the New York Stock Exchange. In addition, financial reporting requirements are comprehensive and complex. While we have focused significant attention and resources on the development and implementation of compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations, either in the United States or abroad, or our inability to adapt to a complex and ever-changing regulatory environment could result in sanctions against us, which could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenue and earnings. We could be impacted by changes in tax policy due to our tax-managed focus. Changes in U.S. tax policy may affect us to a greater degree than many of our competitors because we emphasize managing funds and separate accounts with an after-tax return objective. We believe an increase in overall tax rates could have a positive impact on our municipal income and tax-managed equity businesses. An increase in the tax rate on qualified dividends could have a negative impact on a portion of our tax-advantaged equity income business. Changes in tax policy could also affect our privately offered equity funds. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 