Item 1A. Risk factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. If any of the events anticipated by the risks described below occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Customers and market The recession is expected to increase the Company's risk related to sales and collection of accounts receivable. At the time of this filing one customer has filed for bankruptcy (Boater's World), representing a maximum risk of loss on unrecoverable receivables of approximately $210 thousand dollars. Their 2008 sales were approximately $672 thousand dollars. We do not know yet and cannot predict if we will be able to collect accounts receivable with more or less difficulty than in the past in our business. The Company's Management understands that the economic conditions in the industry may result in additional difficulties for our customers, but is unable to qualify this risk at this time. Financial Risks Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the interest rates on our bonds and on our line of credit. The interest rates on our bonds are adjusted weekly. During the years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007, interest rates ranged between 1.5% and 8.6%, and 3.6% and 4.3% annually, respectively. The industrial revenue bonds when tendered bear market variable interest rates. Should the interest rates increase significantly the Company's earnings will be negatively impacted by higher interest rates. Internal controls Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding internal control over financial reporting or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and current SEC regulations publicly traded companies are required to assess internal controls over financial reporting and beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal period ending December 31, 2007, prepare a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. We have begun the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy these requirements, which is likely to result in increased general and administrative expenses and may shift management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. International We become exposed to foreign currency transactions as a result of our operations in Canada and we do not hedge such exposure. 7 Common stock trading Given exceptional market conditions, NASDAQ has determined to suspend enforcement of the bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements. As extended, the suspension will remain in effect through April 19, 2009. After this date, the Company has to regain compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price for continued listing as required in Marketplace Rule 4310 (c)(4). Following the reinstatement of these rules, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), the Company will be provided 180 calendar days to regain compliance. If, at any time before October 20, 2009, the bid price of the Company's common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, NASDAQ will provide written notification that it complies with the Rule. If compliance with this Rule cannot be demonstrated by July 20, 2009, Staff will determine whether the Company meets The NASDAQ Capital Market initial listing criteria as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c), except for the bid price requirement. If it meets the initial listing criteria, Staff will notify the Company that it may be granted an additional 180 calendar day compliance period. If the Company is not eligible for an additional compliance period, Staff will provide written notification that the Company's securities will be delisted. At that time, the Company may appeal Staff's determination to delist its securities to a Listing Qualifications Panel (the "Panel"). 