Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our investment management business. Our funds and separate accounts compete against a large number of investment products and services sold to the public by investment management companies, investment dealers, banks, insurance companies and others. Many institutions we compete with have greater financial resources than us and there are few barriers to entry. We compete with these firms on the basis of investment performance, diversity of products, distribution capability, scope and quality of services, fees charged, reputation and the ability to develop new investment strategies and products to meet the changing needs of investors. To the extent that current or potential customers decide to invest in products sponsored by our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenue and net income could decline. The inability to access clients through intermediaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to market investment products is highly dependent on access to the various distribution systems of national and regional securities dealer firms, which generally offer competing products that could limit the distribution of our investment products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain access to these channels. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker-dealers, decide to invest in or broaden distribution relationships with our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenue and net income could decline. We derive almost all of our revenue from investment advisory and administrative fees, distribution income and service fees received from the Eaton Vance funds and separate accounts. As a result, we are dependent upon management contracts, administrative contracts, distribution contracts, underwriting contracts or service contracts under which these fees are paid. Generally, these contracts are terminable upon 30 to 60 days’ notice without penalty. If any of these contracts are terminated, not renewed, or amended to reduce fees, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our assets under management, which impact revenue, are subject to significant fluctuations. Our major sources of revenue (i.e., investment advisory, administrative, distribution and service fees) are generally calculated as percentages of assets under management. Any decrease in the level of our assets under management would negatively impact our revenue and net income. A decline in securities prices or in the sales of our investment products or an increase in fund redemptions or client withdrawals generally would reduce fee income. Financial market declines generally have a negative impact on the level of our assets under management and consequently our revenue and net income. To the extent that we receive fee revenue from assets under management that is derived from financial leverage, any reduction in leverage (i.e., financing used by the investment vehicle to increase the investable assets of the vehicle) would adversely impact the level of our assets under management, revenue and net income. Leverage could be reduced due to an adverse change in interest rates, a decrease in the availability of credit on favorable terms or a determination by us to reduce or eliminate leverage on certain products when we determine that the use of leverage is no longer in our clients’ best interests. Weakness in the economy could adversely impact our revenue and net income if it leads to a decreased demand for investment products and services, a higher redemption rate or a decline in securities prices. Any decrease in the level of our assets under management due to securities price declines, reduction in leverage or other factors could negatively impact our revenue and net income. Poor investment performance of our products could affect our sales or reduce the amount of assets under management, negatively impacting revenue and net income. Investment performance is critical to our success. Poor investment performance on an absolute basis or as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitor products could lead to a decrease in sales and stimulate higher redemptions, thereby lowering the amount of 15 assets under management and reducing the investment advisory fees we earn. Past or present performance in the investment products we manage is not indicative of future performance. Our clients can withdraw the assets we manage on short notice, making our future client and revenue base unpredictable. Our open-end fund clients generally may redeem their investments in these funds each business day without prior notice. Institutional and individual separate account clients can terminate their relationships with us for any number of reasons. In a declining stock market, the pace of open-end fund redemptions could accelerate. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms can result in decreased purchases of open-end fund shares, increased redemptions of open-end fund shares, and the loss of institutional or individual separate accounts. The decrease in revenue that could result from any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on key personnel and our financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified portfolio managers, analysts, investment counselors, sales and management personnel and other key professionals, including our executive officers. Our key employees generally do not have employment contracts and may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. Certain senior executives and the non-employee members of our Board of Directors are subject to our mandatory retirement policy at age 65 and age 72, respectively. The loss of the services of key personnel or our failure to attract replacement or additional qualified personnel could negatively affect our financial performance. An increase in compensation to attract or retain personnel could result in a decrease in net income. Our expenses are subject to fluctuations that could materially affect our operating results. Our results of operations are dependent on the level of expenses, which can vary significantly from period to period. Our expenses may fluctuate as a result of variations in the level of compensation, expenses incurred to support distribution of our investment products, expenses incurred to enhance our infrastructure (including technology and compliance) and impairments of intangible assets or goodwill. Increases in our level of expenses, or our inability to reduce our level of expenses when necessary, could materially affect our operating results. Our reputation could be damaged. We have built a reputation of high integrity, prudent investment management and superior client service. Our reputation is extremely important to our success. Any damage to our reputation could result in client withdrawals from funds or separate accounts that are advised by us and ultimately impede our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of either client relationships or key personnel could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause us to suffer a loss in revenue or a reduction in net income. Support provided to new products may reduce fee income, increase expenses and expose us to potential loss on invested capital. We may support the development of new investment products by waiving all or a portion of the fees we receive for managing such products, by subsidizing expenses or by making seed capital investments. Seed investments in new products utilize Company capital that would otherwise be available for general corporate purposes and expose us to capital losses to the extent that realized investment losses are not offset by hedging gains. The risk of loss may be greater for seed capital investments that are not hedged, or if an intended hedge does not perform as expected. Failure to have or devote sufficient capital to support new products could have an adverse impact on our future growth. We may need to raise additional capital or refinance existing debt in the future, and resources may not be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. Our ability to access capital markets efficiently depends on a number of factors, including the state of global credit and equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and our credit ratings. If we are unable to access capital markets to issue new debt, refinance existing debt or sell shares of our Non-Voting Common Stock as needed, or if we are unable to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, our business could be adversely impacted. 16 We could be subject to losses and reputational harm if we, or our agents, fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. We are dependent on the effectiveness of our information security policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. We maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. Our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access or may be corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. Although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware, if such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us. Breach of our technology systems could result in the loss of valuable information, liability for stolen assets or information, remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents and litigation costs resulting from the incident. Moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues. Failure to maintain adequate infrastructure could impede our productivity and ability to support business growth. Our infrastructure, including our technological capacity, data centers, and office space, is vital to the competitiveness of our business. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our business, including any expansion, could impede our productivity and growth, which could result in a decline in our earnings. Failure to maintain adequate business continuity plans could have a material adverse impact on us and our products. Significant portions of our business operations and those of our critical service providers are concentrated in a few geographic areas. Should we, or our critical service providers, experience a significant local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, our continued success will depend, in part, on the safety and availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. The failure by us, or our critical service providers, to maintain updated adequate business continuity plans, including backup facilities, could impede our ability to operate upon a disruption, which could cause our earnings to decline. We have developed various backup systems and contingency plans but we cannot be assured that they will be adequate in all circumstances that could arise or that material interruptions and disruptions will not occur. In addition, we rely to varying degrees on outside vendors for disaster contingency support, and we cannot be assured that these vendors will be able to perform in an adequate and timely manner. If we, or our critical service providers, are unable to respond adequately to such an event in a timely manner, we may be unable to continue our business operations, which could lead to a damaged reputation and loss of customers that results in a decrease in assets under management, lower revenues and reduced net income. We pursue growth in the United States and abroad through acquisitions, which exposes us to risks inherent in assimilating new operations, expanding into new jurisdictions and executing on new development opportunities. Our growth strategy is based in part on the selective development or acquisition of asset management businesses or related businesses that we believe will add value to our business and generate positive net returns. This strategy may not be effective, and failure to successfully develop and implement such a strategy may decrease earnings and harm the Company's competitive position in the investment management industry. We cannot assure that we will identify and consummate any such transactions on acceptable terms or have sufficient resources to accomplish such a strategy. In addition, any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, including additional demands on our staff; unanticipated problems regarding integration of 17 operating facilities, technologies and new employees; and the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by us prior to closing a transaction. As a result, the Company may not be able to realize all of the benefits that it hoped to achieve from such transactions. In addition, we may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that would otherwise be spent on the development and expansion of our business and services. Expansion into international markets and new products and services increases our operational, regulatory and other risks. We continue to increase our product offerings and international business activities. As a result of such expansion, we face increased operational, regulatory, compliance, reputation and foreign exchange rate risks. The failure of our compliance and internal control systems to properly mitigate such additional risks, or of our operating infrastructure to support such expansion, could result in operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions. Legal and regulatory developments in the mutual fund and investment advisory industry could increase our regulatory burden, cause a loss of mutual fund investors, and reduce our revenues. In recent years, regulators both in the United States and abroad have shown increasing interest in the oversight of the broad financial and investment management industry. Some of the newly adopted and proposed regulations are focused directly on the investment management industry, while others are more broadly focused but in many cases will impact our industry as well. The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 represents a comprehensive overhaul of the rules and regulations governing the financial services industry. The regulatory decisions regarding the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act continue. Due to the broad scope of this act we are not able to predict all of the specific requirements that will be adopted by regulatory agencies having authority over us. These new laws and regulations will likely result in greater compliance and administrative burdens on us, increasing our expenses. Our business is subject to risk from regulatory investigation, potential securities laws, liability and litigation. We are subject to federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules, and regulations of certain regulatory, self-regulatory and other organizations, including, among others, the SEC, FINRA, the FSA and the New York Stock Exchange. While we have focused significant attention and resources on the development and implementation of compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations, either in the United States or abroad, or our inability to adapt to a complex and ever-changing regulatory environment could result in sanctions against us, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, revenue and earnings. From time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of business, including employment related claims. We carry insurance in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. We cannot assure that our insurance will cover most liabilities and losses to which we may be exposed, or that our insurance policies will continue to be available at acceptable terms and fees. Certain insurance coverage may not be available or may be prohibitively expensive in future periods. As our insurance policies come up for renewal, we may need to assume higher deductibles or pay higher premiums, which would increase our expenses and reduce our net income. Changes in corporate tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions as well as several states. One state previously provided us with a draft position that may result in a proposed adjustment to our previously filed tax returns. The state has provided additional background on its draft position, and we have determined there is no new information that causes the Company to change its initial conclusion regarding the technical merits of its position. The Company intends to continue its discussions with the state on this matter. We believe that our tax positions related to this potential adjustment were correct, and if an adjustment is proposed, we intend to vigorously defend our positions. It is possible the ultimate resolution of the proposed adjustment, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of our operations. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. 18 We could be impacted by changes in tax policy. Changes in U.S. tax policy may affect us to a greater degree than many of our competitors because we manage significant assets in funds and separate accounts with an after-tax return objective. We believe an increase in overall tax rates would likely have a positive impact on our municipal income and tax-managed equity businesses. An increase in the tax rate on qualified dividends could have a negative impact on our tax-advantaged equity income business. Changes in tax policy could also affect our privately offered equity funds. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 