Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to substantial competition in all aspects of its investment management business and there are few barriers to entry. The Company’s funds and separate accounts compete against an ever-increasing number of investment products and services sold to the public by investment management companies, investment dealers, banks, insurance companies and others. Many institutions competing with the Company have greater resources than the Company. The Company competes with other providers of investment products on the basis of the products offered, the investment performance of such products, quality of service, fees charged, the level and type of financial intermediary compensation, the manner in which such products are marketed and distributed, the reputation of the Company and the services provided to investors. In addition, the Company’s ability to market investment products is highly dependent on access to the various distribution systems of national and regional securities dealer firms, which generally offer competing internally and externally managed investment products which could limit the distribution of the Company’s investment products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain access to these channels. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. To the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities broker/dealers, decide to invest in or broaden distribution relationships with the Company’s competitors, the sales of the Company’s products as well as the Company’s market share, revenues and net income could decline. The Company derives almost all of its revenue from investment adviser and administration fees and distribution income received from the Eaton Vance funds and separate accounts. As a result, the Company is dependent upon management contracts, administration contracts, distribution contracts, underwriting contracts or service contracts under which these fees and income are paid. Generally, these contracts are terminable upon 30 to 60 days’ notice without penalty. If any of these contracts are terminated, not renewed, or amended to reduce fees, the Company’s financial results could be adversely affected. The Company’s assets under management, which impact revenue, are subject to significant fluctuations. The major sources of revenue for the Company (i.e., investment adviser, administration, distribution, and service fees) are calculated as percentages of assets under management. A decline in securities prices or in the sale of investment products or an increase in fund redemptions or client withdrawals generally would reduce fee income. Financial market declines or adverse changes in interest rates would generally negatively impact the level of the Company’s assets under management and consequently its revenue and net income. A recession or other economic or political events could also adversely impact the Company’s revenue if it led to a decreased demand for products, a higher redemption rate, or a decline in securities prices. Any decrease in the level of assets under management resulting from price declines, interest rate volatility or uncertainty or other factors could negatively impact the Company’s revenue and net income. 12 Poor investment performance of the Company’s products could affect the Company’s sales or reduce the amount of assets under management, potentially negatively impacting revenue and net income. Investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining superior distribution and client service, is critical to the Company’s success. While strong investment performance could stimulate sales of the Company’s investment products, poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products could lead to a decrease in sales and stimulate higher redemptions, thereby lowering the amount of assets under management and reducing the investment adviser fees the Company earns. Past or present investment performance in the investment products the Company manages is not indicative of future performance. The Company’s success depends on key personnel and the Company’s financial performance could be negatively affected by the loss of their services. The Company’s success depends upon the Company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified portfolio managers, analysts, investment counselors, sales and management personnel and other key professionals including the Company’s executive officers. Financial services professionals are in high demand, and the Company faces strong competition for qualified personnel. The Company’s key employees do not have employment contracts and may voluntarily terminate their employment with the Company at any time. Certain senior executives and directors are subject to the Company’s mandatory retirement policy. The loss of the services of key personnel or the Company’s failure to attract replacement or additional qualified personnel could negatively affect the Company’s financial performance. Any increase in compensation made by the Company in order to attract or retain key personnel could result in a decrease in net income. The Company’s expenses are subject to fluctuations that could materially affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s results of operations are dependent on the level of expenses, which can vary significantly. The Company’s expenses may fluctuate as a result of variations in the level of total compensation expense, future impairments of intangible assets or goodwill, expenses incurred to enhance the Company’s infrastructure (including technology and compliance) and other expenses incurred to support distribution of the Company’s investment products. The Company’s reputation could be damaged. Eaton Vance Corp. has spent over 80 years building a reputation based on strong investment performance, a high level of integrity and superior client service. The Company’s reputation is extremely important to its success. Any damage to the Company’s reputation could result in client withdrawals from funds or separate accounts that are advised by the Company and ultimately impede the Company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of either client relationships or key personnel could reduce the amount of assets under management and cause the Company to suffer a loss in revenue or net income. The Company is subject to federal securities laws, state laws regarding securities fraud, other federal and state laws and rules and regulations of certain regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, including, among others, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the NASD and the New York Stock Exchange. In addition, financial reporting requirements are comprehensive and complex. While the Company has focused significant attention and resources on the development and implementation of compliance policies, procedures and practices, non-compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations, either in the United States or abroad, or the Company’s inability to adapt to a complex and ever-changing regulatory environment could result in sanctions against the Company, which could adversely affect the Company’s reputation, prospects, revenue, and earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 