RISK FACTORS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES Unless otherwise indicated in this report, the “registrant,” “we,” “us” and “our” collectively refers to Iteris, Inc. (formerly known as Iteris Holdings, Inc. and Odetics, Inc.) and its subsidiary, Meyer, Mohaddes Associates, Inc. AutovueTM, IterisTM and VantageTM are among the trademarks of Iteris, Inc. Any other trademarks or trade names mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners. 2 Cautionary Statement This report, including the following discussion and analysis, contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and our industry, and reflect management’s beliefs and certain assumptions made by us based upon information available to us as of the date of this report. When used in this report and the information incorporated herein by reference, the words “expect(s),” “feel(s),” “believe(s),” “should,” “will,” “may,” “anticipate(s),” “estimate(s)” and similar expressions or variations of these words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding our anticipated sales, revenue, expenses, profits, capital needs, competition, backlog and manufacturing capabilities, the practical market applications, future applications and acceptance of our products and services, and the status of our facilities, product development and renegotiations with our lender. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. We encourage you to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us which describe certain factors which could affect our business, including those “Risk Factors” at the end of Item 7 of this report, before deciding to invest in our company or to maintain or increase your investment. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Iteris, Inc., formerly known as Iteris Holdings, Inc., is a leading provider of outdoor machine vision systems and sensors that optimize the flow of traffic and enhance driver safety. Using proprietary software and Intelligent Transportation Systems (“ITS”) industry expertise, we provide video sensor systems, transportation management and traveler information systems and other engineering consulting services to the ITS industry. The ITS industry is comprised of companies applying a variety of technologies to enable the safe and efficient movement of people and goods. We use our outdoor image recognition software expertise to develop proprietary algorithms for video sensor systems that improve vehicle safety and the flow of traffic. Using our knowledge of the ITS industry, we design and implement transportation management systems that help public agencies reduce traffic congestion and provide greater access to traveler information. On October 22, 2004, we completed a merger with our majority-owned subsidiary, Iteris, Inc. (the “Iteris Subsidiary”), and officially changed our corporate name from Iteris Holdings, Inc. to Iteris, Inc. We were originally incorporated in Delaware in 1987 as Odetics, Inc. and in September 2003 changed our name to Iteris Holdings, Inc. to reflect our focus on the ITS industry and our capital structure at that time. Our proprietary image recognition systems include AutoVue and Vantage. AutoVue is a small windshield mounted sensor that uses proprietary software to detect and warn drivers of unintended lane departures. We have sold approximately 13,000 production AutoVue Lane Departure Warning (“LDW”) systems for use on truck platforms in the European and North American markets, and our AutoVue LDW system is currently offered as an option on certain Mercedes, MAN, Freightliner and International trucks. We believe that our AutoVue LDW technology is a broad sensor platform that, through additional software development, may be expanded to incorporate additional safety and convenience features. Vantage is a video-based vehicle sensing system that detects vehicles on roadways, enabling more efficient traffic management. Applications include traffic signal operations, incident detection and data collection. Our transportation management systems include the design, development and implementation of our software-based systems that integrate sensors, video surveillance, computers and advanced communications equipment to enable public agencies to monitor, control and direct traffic flow, assist in the quick dispatch of emergency crews and distribute real-time information about traffic conditions. We also offer related services that include planning and other engineering for the implementation of transportation related communications systems, analysis and studies related to goods movement and commercial vehicle operations, and parking systems designs. We currently operate in three reportable segments: Roadway Sensors, Automotive Sensors and Systems. The Roadway Sensors segment includes our Vantage vehicle detection systems. The Automotive Sensors segment includes our AutoVue LDW systems for vehicle safety. The Systems segment includes transportation engineering and consulting services, and the development of transportation management and traveler information systems for the ITS industry. 3 Sales, Marketing and Principal Customers We sell our Vantage vehicle detection systems primarily through indirect sales channels comprised of independent dealers in the United States and Canada who sell integrated systems and related products to the traffic management market. Our independent dealers are primarily responsible for sales, installation and support of Vantage systems. These dealers maintain an inventory of demonstration traffic products from various manufacturers including our Vantage vehicle detection systems and sell directly to government agencies and installation contractors. These dealers often have long-term arrangements with the government agencies in their territory for the supply of various products for the construction and renovation of traffic intersections. We hold technical training classes for dealers and end users and maintain a full-time staff of customer support technicians to provide technical assistance when needed. Our marketing strategy for AutoVue is to establish it as the leading platform for in-vehicle video sensing for heavy trucks and passenger cars. We sell AutoVue directly to heavy truck manufacturers and to U.S. truck fleets. We also market to the manufacturers of passenger automobiles through a strategic relationship with Valeo Schalter and Sensuren GmbH (“Valeo”), an independent automotive supplier. We market and sell our transportation management systems and traveler information services directly to government agencies pursuant to negotiated contracts that involve competitive bidding and specific qualification requirements. Most of our contracts with federal, state and municipal customers provide for cancellation or renegotiation at the option of the customer upon reasonable notice and fees paid for modification. We use selected members of our engineering team divided on a regional basis to serve in sales and business development functions. We do not engage in sales of transportation management systems and traveler information services outside of the U.S. Sales of our transportation management systems contracts generally involve long lead times and require extensive specification development, evaluation and price negotiations. Our largest customer accounted for 12.8% of total net sales and contract revenues in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 (“Fiscal 2005”). Manufacturing and Materials We use contract manufacturers to build subassemblies that are used in our Vantage products. Additionally, we procure certain components from qualified suppliers, both globally and locally, and use multi-sourcing strategies when technically and economically feasible to mitigate supply risk. These subassemblies and components are delivered to our Anaheim facility where they go through final assembly and testing prior to shipment to our customers. Our manufacturing activities are conducted in approximately 8,000 square feet of space at our Anaheim facility. Production volume at our subcontractors is based upon quarterly forecasts that we adjust on a monthly basis to control inventory. For sales of Autovue LDW systems to the truck market, we subcontract the manufacture of our AutoVue LDW systems to one manufacturer, and our internal processes are limited primarily to testing and final verification. We are currently in the process of qualifying an additional subcontractor for the manufacture of LDW systems to mitigate production risk and handle increased demand. For Autovue LDW sales to the passenger car market, we anticipate that all manufacturing will be done by Valeo; however, we plan to continue to provide engineering support to Valeo. We currently do not manufacture any of the hardware used in the transportation management and traveler information systems that we design and implement. Our production facility is currently ISO 9001 certified. Customer Support and Services We provide warranty service and support for our Vantage and AutoVue products as well as follow-up service and support for which we charge separately. Service revenue accounted for less than 1.0% of total net sales and contract revenues for Fiscal 2005. We believe customer support is a key competitive factor. Backlog Our backlog of unfulfilled firm orders was approximately $18.9 million as of March 31, 2005, which was comprised of $1.7 million related to Roadway Sensors, $3.4 million related to Automotive Sensors and $13.8 million related to Systems. All backlog for Roadway Sensors and Automotive Sensors is expected to be recognized as revenue in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2006 (“Fiscal 2006”) while approximately 60.0% of Systems backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue in Fiscal 2006. At March 31, 2004, we had backlog of approximately $21.6 million, which was comprised of $4.7 million related to Roadway Sensors, $3.9 million related to Automotive Sensors and $13.0 million related to Systems. At March 31, 4 2004, backlog for Roadway Sensors and Automotive Sensors was recognized as revenue in Fiscal 2005 while 63.8% of Systems March 31, 2004, backlog was recognized as revenue in Fiscal 2005. Pursuant to the customary terms of our agreements with government contractors and other customers, customers can generally cancel or reschedule orders with little or no penalties. Lead times for the release of purchase orders often depend upon the scheduling and forecasting practices of our individual customers, which also can affect the timing of the conversion of our backlog into revenues. For these reasons, among others, our backlog at a particular date may not be indicative of our future revenues. Product Development Most of our development activities are conducted at our principal facilities in Anaheim, California. Our company-sponsored research and development costs and expenses were approximately $4.2 million for Fiscal 2005, $3.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004 (“Fiscal 2004”), and $3.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2003 (“Fiscal 2003”). We expect to continue to pursue significant product development programs and incur significant research and development expenditures. Competition We generally face significant competition in each of our target markets. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that AutoVue is the only commercially-available lane departure warning system used in the U.S. and in Europe in the heavy truck market. Potential competitors of AutoVue include Delphi Automotive Systems Corporation domestically, NEC Corporation and Hitachi Ltd. in Japan and Robert Bosch GmbH in Europe, as well as Siemens, Continental Tavis and Visteon, which could be currently developing video sensor technologies for the vehicle industry that could be used for lane departure warning systems. In the market for our Vantage vehicle detection systems, we compete with manufacturers of other “above ground” video camera detection systems such as Econolite Control Products, Inc., Traficon, N.V., Quixote, and other non-intrusive detection devices including microwave, infrared, ultrasonic and magnetic detectors, as well as manufacturers and installers of in-pavement inductive loop products. The transportation management and traveler information systems market is highly fragmented and is subject to evolving national and regional quality and safety standards. Our competitors vary in number, scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. Our competitors in advanced transportation management and traveler information systems include large multi-national corporations such as Transcore, Lockheed Martin Corporation, PB Farradyne, Inc., Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. and National Engineering Technology, Inc. Our competitors in transportation engineering, planning and design include major firms such as Parsons Brinkerhoff, Inc. and Parsons Transportation Group, Inc., as well as many smaller regional engineering firms. In general, the markets for the products and services offered by our businesses are highly competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. Many of our current and prospective competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution and marketing resources than us. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging standards or technologies or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. It is also possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We believe that our ability to compete effectively in our target markets will depend on a number of factors, including the success and timing of our new product development, the compatibility of our products with a broad range of computing systems, product quality and performance, reliability, functionality, price, and service and technical support. Our failure to provide services and develop and market products that compete successfully with those of other suppliers and consultants in our target markets would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. Our policy is to obtain appropriate proprietary rights protection for any potentially significant new technology acquired or developed by us. We currently hold ten U.S. patents, which expire commencing in 2012, and have three U.S. patent applications pending, mostly relating to our outdoor image processing techniques used in our AutoVue systems. Two of our patents relate specifically to our AutoVue technology and provide a basis for enhanced functionality for rain sensing and improved performance. We believe that our other patents, while important for our technology platforms, are less critical to our near term product strategy. We cannot assure you that any new patents will be granted pursuant to any outstanding or subsequent applications. In addition to patent laws, we rely on copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through agreements with customers and suppliers, proprietary 5 information agreements with our employees and consultants, and other similar measures. We do not have any material licenses or trademarks other than those relating to product names. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in protecting our proprietary rights. While we believe our patents, patent applications, software and other proprietary know-how have value, changing technology makes our future success dependent principally upon our employees’ technical competence and creative skills for continuing innovation. Litigation has been necessary in the past and may be necessary in the future to enforce our proprietary rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend us against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. An adverse outcome in such litigation or similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, both in legal fees and expenses, as well as from the diversion of management’s resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Employees We refer to our employees as associates. As of June 8, 2005, we employed an aggregate of 215 associates, including 48 associates in general management, administration and finance; 20 associates in sales and marketing; 113 associates in engineering and product development; 26 associates in operations, manufacturing and quality; and 8 associates in customer service. None of our associates are represented by a labor union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. Government Regulation Our manufacturing operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those restricting the discharge of materials into the environment. We are not involved in any pending or, to our knowledge, threatened governmental proceedings, which would require curtailment of our operations because of such laws and regulations. We continue to expend funds in connection with our compliance with applicable environmental regulations. These expenditures have not, however, been significant in the past, and we do not expect any significant expenditure in the near future. Currently, compliance with foreign laws has not had a material impact on our business and is not expected to have a material impact in the near future. 