Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business could be adversely impacted by reductions or changes in NASA or U.S. government military spending. Our perchlorate chemicals, as part of our Specialty Chemicals segment, accounted for approximately 53%, 73% and 79% of our revenues during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Ammonium perchlorate, or AP, is the sole oxidizing agent for solid fuel rockets, booster motors and missiles used in space exploration. Our principal space customers are Alliant Techsystems, Inc. (“Alliant”) for the Space Shuttle Program and the Delta family of commercial rockets, and Aerojet General Corporation for the Atlas family of commercial rockets. We also supply AP for use in a number of defense programs, including the Minuteman, Navy Standard Missile, Patriot and Multiple Launch Rocket System programs. As a majority of our sales are to the U.S. government and its prime contractors, we depend heavily on the contracts underlying these programs. Also, significant portions of our sales come from a small number of customers. Alliant accounted for 41%, 44% and 66% of our revenues during the fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We have supplied AP for use in space and defense programs for over 40 years. We have supplied AP to various foreign defense programs and commercial space programs, although AP is subject to strict export license controls. Beginning in the 1990’s, demand for perchlorate chemicals has been declining. The suspension of Space Shuttle missions after the Columbia disaster in February 2003, further reduced sales volume of our Grade I AP products. During the next several years, the demand for Grade I AP will be primarily driven by the following factors: • The timing of the Space Shuttle’s return to flight. • The number of Shuttle flights between now and the retirement of the Shuttle fleet. • The amount of inventory of Grade I AP owned by our customers. • The amount of NASA’s and the Department of Defense’s (“DOD”) annual budget over the next several years. The U.S. has proposed a long-term human and robotic program to explore the solar system, starting with a return to the Moon. This program will require the development of new space exploration vehicles that is likely to stimulate the demand for Grade I AP. As a consequence of the new space initiatives discussed above, as well as other factors, including the completion and 19 Table of Contents utilization of the International Space Station (“ISS”), the long-term demand for Grade I AP will be driven by the following factors: • The timing of the retirement of the Space Shuttle fleet. • The timing of the development of the new crew launch vehicle (“CLV”) and the number of CLV launches. • The timing of the development and testing of the new heavy launch vehicle (“HLV”) used to transport material and supplies to the ISS and the Moon; and the number of HLV launches. Our revenues, operating income and cash flows from operating activities are negatively impacted by these lower sales volume levels. In addition, demand for Grade I AP is program specific and dependent upon, among other things, governmental appropriations. We have no ability to influence the demand for Grade I AP. Any decision to further delay, reduce or cancel Space Shuttle flights over an extended period of time would have a further significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the use of AP as the oxidizing agent for solid fuel rockets or the use of solid fuel rockets in NASA’s space exploration programs are discontinued or significantly reduced, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. We depend on a limited number of customers for most of our net sales and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce our net sales. Our perchlorate chemicals, as part of our Specialty Chemicals segment, accounted for approximately 53%, 73% and 79% of our revenues during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Alliant accounted for 41%, 44% and 66% of our revenues during the fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Should our relationship with one or more of our major customers change adversely, the resulting loss of business could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if one or more of our major customers substantially reduced their volume of purchases from us, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Should one of our major customers encounter financial difficulties, the exposure on uncollectible receivables and unusable inventory could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our existing U.S. government contracts and contracts based on U.S. government contracts are subject to continued appropriations by congress and may be terminated if future funding is not made available. U.S. government contracts are dependent on the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations for future fiscal years. In addition, most U.S. government contracts are subject to modification if funding is changed. Any failure by Congress to appropriate additional funds to any program in which we or our customers participate, or any contract modification as a result of funding changes, could materially delay or terminate the program for us or for our customers. Since our significant customers are mainly U.S. government contractors subject to this yearly 20 Table of Contents Congressional appropriations process, their purchase of our products are also dependent on their U.S. government contracts not being materially curtailed. In particular, it has been recently announced that NASA is expected to have a budget shortfall between fiscal years 2006 and 2010 that may surpass $6 billion, which may result in a significant reduction in the number of Space Shuttle flights. This could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. A significant percentage of our contracts are fixed price contracts. If we experience cost overruns on these contracts or our raw materials becomes more expensive, we would have to absorb the excess costs and our profitability would be adversely affected. Our U.S. government or U.S. government contractor contracts can be categorized as either “cost-plus” or “fixed-price.” Cost-Plus Contracts. Cost-plus contracts are cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-incentive-fee, or cost-plus-award-fee contracts. Cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts allow us to recover our approved costs plus a fixed fee. Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts and cost-plus-award-fee contracts allow us to recover our approved costs plus a fee that can fluctuate based on actual results as compared to contractual targets for factors such as cost, quality, schedule, and performance. Fixed-Price Contracts. Fixed-price contracts are firm-fixed-price, fixed-price-incentive, or fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts. Under firm-fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform certain work for a fixed price and absorb any cost underruns or overruns. Fixed-price-incentive contracts are fixed-price contracts under which the final contract prices may be adjusted based on total final costs compared to total target cost, and may be affected by schedule and performance. Fixed price-level-of-effort contracts allow for a fixed price per labor hour, subject to a contract cap. All fixed-price contracts present the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. The U.S. government also regulates the accounting methods under which costs are allocated to U.S. government contracts. As a result, all fixed-price contracts involve the inherent risk of un-reimbursed cost overruns. To the extent that we did not anticipate the increase in cost of producing our products which are subject to a fixed-price contract, our profitability would be adversely affected. Our U.S. government contracts and our customer’s U.S. government contracts are subject to termination. We are subject to the risk that the U.S. government may terminate its contracts with its suppliers, either for its convenience or in the event of a default by the contractor. If a cost-plus contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to reimbursement of its approved costs. If the contractor would have incurred a loss had the entire contract been performed, then no profit is allowed by the U.S. government. If the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive payment of a total fee proportionate to the percentage of the work completed under the contract. If a fixed-price contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to receive payment for items delivered to and accepted by the U.S. government. If the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive fair compensation for work performed plus the costs of settling and paying claims by terminated subcontractors, other settlement expenses, and a reasonable profit on the costs incurred or committed. If a contract termination is for default: 21 Table of Contents • the contractor is paid an amount agreed upon for completed and partially completed products and services accepted by the U.S. government, • the U.S. government is not liable for the contractor’s costs for unaccepted items, and is entitled to repayment of any advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract, and • the contractor may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. In addition, since our significant customers are U.S. government contractors, they may cease purchasing our products if their contracts are terminated, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flow. We are subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations, non-compliance with which may expose us to adverse consequences. We are subject to extensive and complex U.S. government procurement laws and regulations, along with ongoing U.S. government audits and reviews of contract procurement, performance, and administration. We could suffer adverse consequences if we were to fail to comply, even inadvertently, with these laws and regulations or with laws governing the export of munitions and other controlled products and commodities; or commit a significant violation of any other federal law. These consequences could include contract termination; civil and criminal penalties; and, under certain circumstances, our suspension and debarment from future U.S. government contracts for a period of time. In addition, foreign sales are subject to greater variability and risk than our domestic sales. Foreign sales subject us to numerous stringent U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in material adverse consequences to us. These procurement laws and regulations also provide for ongoing audits and reviews of incurred costs as well as contract procurement, performance and administration. The U.S. government may, if appropriate, conduct an investigation into possible illegal or unethical activity in connection with these contracts. Investigations of this nature are common in the aerospace and defense industry, and lawsuits may result. In addition, the U.S. government and its principal prime contractors periodically investigate the financial viability of its contractors and subcontractors as part of its risk assessment process associated with the award of new contracts. If the U.S. government or one or more prime contractors were to determine that we were not financially viable, our ability to continue to act as a government contractor or subcontractor would be impaired. Our operations and properties are currently the subject of numerous environmental and other government regulations, which may become more stringent in the future and may reduce our profitability and liquidity. Our operations are subject to extensive Federal, State and local regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water and waste management. To meet changing licensing and regulatory standards, we may be required to make additional significant site or operational modifications, potentially involving substantial expenditures or the reduction or suspension of certain operations. In addition, the operation of our manufacturing plants entails risk of adverse environmental and health effects (not covered by insurance) and there can be no 22 Table of Contents assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred to rectify any future occurrences related to environmental or health matters. EPA Perchlorate Review: Perchlorate is not currently included in the list of hazardous substances compiled by the EPA, but has been added to the EPA’s Contaminant Candidate List. The EPA has conducted a risk assessment relating to perchlorate, two drafts of which were subject to formal peer reviews held in 1999 and 2002. Following the 2002 peer review, the EPA perchlorate risk assessment together with other perchlorate related science was reviewed by the NAS. This NAS report was released on January 11, 2005. The recommendations contained in this NAS report indicate that human health is protected in drinking water at a level of 24.5 parts per billion (“ppb”). Certain states have also conducted risk assessments (prior to the release of the NAS report) and have set preliminary levels from 1 – 14 ppb. The EPA has established a reference dose for perchlorate of .0007 mg/kg/day which is equal to a Drinking Water Equivalent Level (“DWEL”) of 24.5 ppb. A decision as to whether or not to establish a Maximum Contaminate Level (“MCL”) is pending. The outcome of these federal EPA actions, as well as any similar state regulatory action, will influence the number, if any, of potential sites that may be subject to remediation action. Perchlorate Remediation Project in Henderson, Nevada: In 1997, the Southern Nevada Water Authority (“Water Authority”) detected trace amounts of the perchlorate anion in Lake Mead and the Las Vegas Wash. Lake Mead is a source of drinking water for Southern Nevada and areas of Southern California. At certain levels, perchlorate can interfere with the uptake of iodine by the thyroid gland. While iodine uptake inhibition is a mundane occurrence, if the uptake inhibition is high enough and lasts for a substantial period, then thyroid hormone production is affected. We commercially manufactured perchlorate chemicals at a facility in Henderson, Nevada (the “Henderson Site”) from 1958 until the facility was destroyed in May 1988, after which we relocated our production to a new facility in Iron County, Utah. Kerr-McGee Chemical Corp (“KMCC”) also operated a perchlorate production facility in Henderson, Nevada during 1967 to 1998. Between 1956 to 1967, American Potash operated a perchlorate production facility at the same site. For many years prior to 1956, other entities also manufactured perchlorate chemicals at that site. In 1998, Kerr-McGee Chemical LLC became the operating entity and it ceased the production of perchlorate at the Henderson Site, although it currently continues to produce other chemicals at this site. As a result of a longer production history at Henderson, the KMCC and predecessor operations have manufactured significantly greater amounts of perchlorate over time than did our operation formerly located there. The Water Authority’s testing has shown perchlorate concentrations of 4 to 18 ppb in Clark County drinking water. In response to this discovery, we engaged environmental consultants to drill ground water bore holes and monitoring wells in order to characterize ground water and soil at, and in the vicinity of, the Henderson Site. The results of our tests over a period of time have shown perchlorate concentrations in the ground water near, and at a distance from, the Henderson Site range from 0 to approximately 750,000 ppb at certain monitoring wells. We have continued to evaluate the sources of these amounts of perchlorate, possible environmental impacts, and potential remediation methods. We are cooperating with Federal, State and local agencies in the investigation and evaluation of perchlorate contamination found in Henderson, possible environmental impacts and potential remediation methods. We have evaluated a pilot process to remediate groundwater containing perchlorate using a biological in situ method (“In Situ Process”). During our fiscal 2005 third quarter, we finalized a work plan with the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection that determined the extent of the process and related estimated costs for the installation and operation of a perchlorate in-groundwater remediation system. We are exploring potential 23 Table of Contents reimbursement for the costs related to the Henderson Remediation Project from government agencies or their affiliates. However, there are no assurances that we will be successful in obtaining such cost recovery. Environmental Remediation Reserve: During our fiscal 2005 third quarter, we recorded a charge for $22.4 million representing our estimate of the probable costs of our remediation efforts at the Henderson Site, including the costs for equipment, operating and maintenance costs, and consultants. Key factors in determining the total estimated cost include an estimated project life of 45 years and estimates for capital expenditures and annual operating and maintenance costs. This estimate is based on information currently available to us and may be subject to material adjustment upward or downward in future periods as new facts or circumstances may indicate. Although we have established reserves for our environmental liabilities, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may not be sufficient. As of September 30, 2005, we had established reserves of $20.6 million, which we believe to be sufficient to cover our estimated environmental liabilities at that time. However, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. We continually evaluate the adequacy of those reserves, and they could change. In addition, the reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination at those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites will be discovered. This could lead us to have additional expenditures for environmental remediation in the future and given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. We have a substantial amount of debt, and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect our ability to take actions or our liquidity or financial condition. In connection with the acquisition of the AFC Business, we have incurred a substantial amount of debt for which we are required to make interest and principal payments. As of November 30, 2005, we had total consolidated debt of $110.5 million. Subject to the limits contained in some of the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our level of debt places significant demands on our cash resources, which could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, developing our real estate assets and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; or 24 Table of Contents • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and fund our operating costs, our liquidity may be adversely affected. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply could result in defaults that accelerate the payment under our debt. Our outstanding debt generally contains various restrictive covenants. These covenants include provisions restricting our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt, incur contingent obligations and issue additional preferred stock; • create liens; • pay dividends, distributions or make other specified restricted payments, and restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • sell assets; • make certain capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Any of the covenants described in this risk factor may restrict our operations and our ability to pursue potentially advantageous business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could also result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. The anticipated benefits of combining AMPAC and the AFC Business may not be realized. In November of 2005, we purchased the AFC Business, with the expectation that the combination of both companies’ businesses will result in various benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to heightened expertise in pharmaceutical specialty chemicals, synergies created by the combination of our expertise and know-how of specialty chemicals used in energetic products for space flight and defense systems and the expertise of AFC, the diversification of risk faced by the Company, cost savings and operating efficiencies. There can be no assurance that we will realize any of these benefits or that the acquisition will not result in the deterioration or loss of significant business of the combined company. Costs incurred and liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition, including pending and/or threatened disputes and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition and operating results. We may have difficulty and incur substantial costs in integrating the AFC Business. Integrating AMPAC and the AFC Business will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Before the acquisition, AMPAC and the AFC Business operated independently, each with 25 Table of Contents its own business, products, customers, employees, culture and systems. The combined company may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays in integrating AMPAC and the AFC Business. These factors may include: • potential difficulty in leveraging the value of the separate technologies of the combined company; perceived adverse changes in product offerings available to customers or customer service standards, whether or not these changes do, in fact, occur; • costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures; • difficulty integrating differing distribution models; • difficulty comparing financial reports due to differing management systems; • diversion of management resources from the business of the combined company; • potential incompatibility of business cultures and philosophies; • reduction or loss of revenue due to the potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay; and • coordinating infrastructure operations in an effective and efficient manner. We may seek to combine certain operations and functions using common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices. We may be unsuccessful in implementing the integration of these systems and processes. Any one or all of these factors may cause increased operating costs, worse than anticipated financial performance or the loss of customers. Many of these factors are also outside our control. The failure to effectively and efficiently integrate AMPAC and the AFC Business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has asked for clarification regarding certain of our accounting policies and disclosures. In a letter dated February 15, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission asked for additional information or clarification of certain of our accounting policies, including our accounting for “Bill and Hold” transactions. Sales of our specialty chemicals and environmental protection products are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, shipment has been made, title passes, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. We offer some of our perchlorate product customers the option, at their election, of storing purchased materials in our Cedar City facility (“Bill and Hold” transactions). We recognize the revenue and profit from these Bill and Hold transactions at the point at which the risks of ownership and transfer of title is transferred to the customers. We have responded to the SEC’s letter and have received no further communications from the SEC after our response. However, there can be no assurance that our accounting policies will not be questioned in the future and if our accounting method changes, it may have a material effect on our financial results. The release or explosion of dangerous materials used in our business could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur additional costs and liability. 26 Table of Contents Our operations involve the handling and production of potentially explosive materials and other dangerous chemicals, including materials used in rocket propulsion. Despite our use of specialized facilities to handle dangerous materials and intensive employee training programs, the handling and production of hazardous materials could result in incidents that temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations and could cause production delays. It is possible that a release of these chemicals or an explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and others. Material property damage to us and third parties could also occur. The use of these products in applications by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion or fire were to occur. Any release or explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. On May 4, 1988, our former manufacturing and office facilities in Henderson, Nevada were destroyed by a series of massive explosions and associated fires. Extensive property damage occurred both at our facilities and in immediately adjacent areas, the principal damage occurring within a three-mile radius. Production of AP ceased for a 15-month period. Significant interruptions were also experienced in our other businesses, which occupied the same or adjacent sites. There can be no assurance that another incident would not interrupt some or all of the activities carried on at our current manufacturing site. The production of most of our products is conducted in a single facility and our operations will be materially affected if production at that facility is disrupted. Most of our products are produced at our Iron County, Utah facility. A significant disruption at this facility, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, as well as increases in prices of raw materials, could adversely impact our operations. Key raw materials used in our operations include salt, sodium chlorate, graphite, ammonia and hydrochloric acid. We closely monitor sources of supply to assure that adequate raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes are available. Although we recently had some difficulty in obtaining graphite, significant progress has been made in establishing an assured source of supply. We continue to explore other technologies that would reduce our dependence on graphite. In addition, as a U.S. government contractor, we are frequently limited to procuring materials and components from sources of supply that can meet rigorous customer and/or government specifications. In addition, as business conditions, the Department of Defense (DoD) budget, and Congressional allocations change, suppliers of specialty chemicals and materials sometimes consider dropping low volume items from their product lines, which may require, as it has in the past, qualification of new suppliers for raw materials on key programs. The qualification process may impact our profitability or ability to meet contract deliveries. We are also impacted by the cost of these raw materials used in production on fixed-price contracts. The increased cost of natural gas and electricity also has an impact on the cost of operating our facilities. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. 27 Table of Contents Our inability to adapt to rapid technological changes could impair our ability to remain competitive. The aerospace and defense industry and the other specialty chemicals, performance products and environmental protection equipment industries in which we participate have all undergone rapid and significant technological development over the last few years. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we are able to, allowing them to provide more effective products at more competitive prices. As an example, the automotive airbag market is currently the largest consumer of sodium azide. New automotive inflator systems that do not use sodium azide have gained substantial market share and, as a consequence, there has been a substantial decline in the demand for sodium azide. Based upon market information received from inflator manufacturers, we expect that sodium azide use will continue to decline and that bag inflators using sodium azide will be phased out over approximately five years. Currently, demand for sodium azide is substantially less than supply on a worldwide basis. Future technological developments could: • adversely impact our competitive position if we are unable to react to these developments in a timely or efficient manner; • require us to write-down obsolete facilities, equipment and technology; • require us to discontinue production of obsolete products before we can recover any or all of our related research, development and commercialization expenses; or • require significant capital expenditures for research, development and launch of new products or processes. Our proprietary rights may be violated or compromised, which could damage our operations. We own numerous patents, patent applications and unpatented trade secret technologies in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of these rights. In addition, independent third parties may develop competitive or superior technologies. We are subject to intense competition in certain of the industries where we compete and therefore may not be able to compete successfully. Other than the sale of AP, for which we are the sole supplier in the U.S., we face significant competition in all of the other industries that we participate in, including from competitors with greater resources than ours. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, production and other resources substantially greater than ours. Moreover, barriers to entry, other than capital availability, are low in some of the product segments of our business. Capacity additions or technological advances by existing or future competitors may also create greater competition, particularly in pricing. In addition, there is a worldwide over-supply of sodium azide, which creates significant price competition for that product. We cannot assure you we will have access to the financing necessary to upgrade our facilities in response to technological advances or other competitive developments. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors and our inability to do so could result in a decrease in revenues that we historically have generated from the sale of these products. Due to the nature of our business, our sales levels may fluctuate causing our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. 28 Table of Contents Changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter could result in volatility in our common stock price. Our quarterly and annual sales are affected by a variety of factors that could lead to significant variability in our operating results. In our specialty chemicals business, the need for our products are generally based on contractually defined milestones that our customers are bound by and these milestones may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. The cyclicality and volatility of the chemical industry affects our capacity utilization and causes fluctuations in our results of operations. The operating rates at our facilities will impact the comparison of period-to-period results. Different facilities may have differing operating rates from period to period depending on many factors, such as transportation costs and supply and demand for the product produced at the facility during that period. As a result, individual facilities may be operated below or above rated capacities in any period. We may idle a facility for an extended period of time because an oversupply of a certain product or a lack of demand for that product makes production uneconomical. The expenses of the shutdown and restart of facilities may adversely affect quarterly results when these events occur. In addition, a temporary shutdown may become permanent, resulting in a write-down or write-off of the related assets. A loss of key personnel or highly skilled employees could disrupt our operations. Our executive officers are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain these officers and other capable management personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with two of our executive officers that allow those officers to terminate their employment with certain levels of severance under particular circumstances, such as a change of control affecting our company. Although we believe that we will be able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do so could disrupt the operations of the segment affected or our overall operations. In addition, because of the complex nature of many of our products and programs, we are generally dependent on an educated and highly-skilled engineering staff and workforce. Our operations could be disrupted by a shortage of available skilled employees. Our Shareholder Rights Plan, Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent shareholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. We have a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group which attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors; • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors; and • special voting requirements for the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. 29 Table of Contents We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware laws, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions and the rights plan may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may continue to expand our operations through acquisitions, which could divert management’s attention and expose us to unanticipated liabilities and costs. We may experience difficulties integrating the acquired operations, and we may incur costs relating to acquisitions that are never consummated. Our business strategy could include growth through future acquisitions. However, our ability to consummate and integrate effectively any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems and, where necessary, requalify our customer programs. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. We may also incur costs and divert management attention to acquisitions that are never consummated. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. It is also possible that expected synergies from past or future acquisitions may not materialize. Although we undertake a diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. Risks Related to Newly Acquired Fine Chemicals Business We may be unable to comply with customer specifications and manufacturing instructions, experience schedule delays or other problems with existing or new products and systems, which could result in increased costs and loss of sales. Our newly acquired fine chemicals business, which is operated by our Ampac Fine Chemicals LLC subsidiary, produces chemical compounds that are difficult to manufacture, including highly energetic, highly toxic and high potency materials. These chemical compounds are manufactured to exacting specifications of our customers’ filings with the FDA and other regulatory authorities world-wide. The production of these chemicals requires a high degree of precision and strict adherence to safety and quality standards. Regulatory agencies, such as the FDA, and the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products, or EMEA, have regulatory oversight over the production process for many of the products that AFC manufactures for its customers. AFC employs sophisticated and rigorous manufacturing and testing practices to ensure compliance with the FDA’s “cGMP” and the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) Q7A. If AFC is unable to adhere to these standards and produce these chemical compounds to the standards required by our customers, its operating results and revenues will be negatively impacted. 30 Table of Contents Failure to meet strict timing or delivery requirements could cause AFC to be in breach of material customer contracts. AFC is a capital intensive business. Certain major customers have agreed to reimburse AFC for all or a portion of the cost of acquiring or installing certain production equipment to insure sufficient supply of the customer’s product. AFC must meet strict timelines for installation and validation of the production equipment and the manufacturing process. Failure to install and validate the production equipment and to validate the production process in a timely manner could result in delays in production or in breach of contract claims which could adversely impact revenues and operating results of AFC. In addition, the rate of utilization of AFC production capacity is currently very high. Therefore, AFC may experience significant delays in its production if its production capability experiences unscheduled reductions. This may in turn cause AFC to be in breach of its material customer contracts, which could adversely affect its revenues and operating results. Because AFC currently manufactures a limited number of products for a small number of customers, a problem with any of its significant customers or the final products that our chemical compound is a part could materially adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. AFC’s success is largely dependent upon contract manufacturing of a limited number of intermediates or APIs for a limited number of key customers. It produced 14 APIs or intermediates in fiscal 2005 for its customers with its top three products generating approximately 71% of its sales in fiscal 2005. Furthermore, the top five customers of AFC accounted for approximately 97.1% of its revenues in its fiscal 2005. Any negative development in these customer contracts or relationships or in the customer’s business may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of AFC. In addition, if the pharmaceutical products that AFC’s customers produce using its compounds experience any problems, including problems related to their safety or efficacy, filing with the FDA or is not successful in the market, these customers may substantially reduce or cease to purchase AFC’ compounds, which will have a material adverse effect on the revenues and results of operations of AFC. Finally, certain customers have agreed to reimburse AFC for all or a portion of the substantial cost of acquiring or installing certain production equipment. Due to the relative size of these customers, their contracts and the capital investment required, failure of the customer to reimburse AFC for these capital investments could have a material adverse effect on the our operating results. AFC depends heavily on third parties for the supply of certain raw materials used in its production processes. AFC uses substantial amounts of raw materials in its production processes. Increases in the prices of raw materials which AFC purchases from third party suppliers could adversely impact revenue and operating results. In certain cases, the customer provides some of the raw materials which are used by AFC to produce or manufacture the customer’s products. Failure to receive raw materials in a timely manner, whether from a third party supplier or a customer, could cause AFC to fail to meet production schedules and adversely impact revenues. Certain key raw materials are obtained from sources from outside the United States. A delay in the arrival in the shipment of raw material from a third party supplier could have a significant impact on AFC’ ability to meet its contractual commitments to customers. 31 Table of Contents Our inability to adapt to rapid technological changes could impair our ability to remain competitive. The pharmaceutical fine chemicals industry has undergone rapid and significant technological development over the last few years. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we are able to, allowing them to provide products to our existing or potential customers at more competitive prices. Future technological developments could: • adversely impact our competitive position if we are unable to react to these developments in a timely or efficient manner; and • require us to write-down obsolete facilities, equipment and technology or incur significant capital expenditures to upgrade such facilities and equipment. The fine chemicals industry is highly competitive, and the failure of AFC to compete effectively could harm our business and profitability. The pharmaceutical fine chemicals market is fragmented and competitive. Competition in the pharmaceutical fine chemicals market is based upon reputation, service, manufacturing capability and expertise, price and reliability of supply. AFC may not be successful in renewing customer contracts on commercially favorable terms, if at all, or in securing new customers. AFC faces increasing competition against pharmaceutical contract manufacturers located in the People’s Republic of China and India, where production costs are significantly less. If AFC is unable to compete successfully, its results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. Successful commercialization of pharmaceutical products and product line extensions is very difficult and subject to many uncertainties. If a customer is not able to successfully commercialize its products for which AFC produces compounds, then the operating results of AFC may be negatively impacted. Successful commercialization of products and product line extensions requires accurate anticipation of market and customer acceptance of particular products, customers’ needs, the sale of competitive products, and emerging technological trends, among other things. Additionally, for successful product development, the customers must complete many complex formulation and analytical testing requirements and timely obtain regulatory approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies. When developed, new or reformulated drugs may not exhibit desired characteristics or may not be accepted by the marketplace. Complications can also arise during production scale-up. In addition, these products may encounter unexpected, irresolvable patent conflicts or may not have enforceable intellectual property rights. If the customer is not able to successfully commercialize their products for which AFC produces compounds for, then the operating results of AFC may be negatively impacted. AFC or its customers may be unable to obtain government approval for its products or comply with government regulations relating to its business. The commercialization of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation in the United States and similar foreign regulation. We do not know the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and other regulatory actions and developments concerning various aspects of the operations and products of AFC or its customers and the health care field generally. We do not know what effect changes in governmental regulation and other actions or decisions by governmental agencies may have on AFC in the future. Any changes could impose on AFC or its customers changes to manufacturing methods or facilities, pharmaceutical importation, expanded or different labeling, new approvals, the recall, 32 Table of Contents replacement or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping, testing, price or purchase controls or limitations, and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and scientific substantiation. Any regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on AFC, its financial condition and results of operations or its competitive position. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, pricing, reimbursement and advertising of these products, and disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are also subject to regulation by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Customs Service, as well as state, local and foreign governments. Before marketing most drug products, AFC’ customers generally are required to obtain approval from the FDA based upon pre-clinical testing, clinical trials showing safety and efficacy, chemistry and manufacturing control data, and other data and information. The generation of the required data is regulated by the FDA and can be time-consuming and expensive, and the results might not justify approval. Even if AFC customers are successful in obtaining all required pre-marketing approvals, post-marketing requirements and any failure on either parties’ part to comply with other regulations could result in suspension or limitation of approvals or commercial activities pertaining to affected products. The FDA could also require reformulation of products during the post-marketing stage. All of AFC’ products must be manufactured in conformance with cGMP regulations, as interpreted and enforced by the FDA, the International Conference on Harmonization ICH Q7A, and drug products subject to an FDA-approved application must be manufactured, processed, packaged, held and labeled in accordance with information contained in the regulations, current FDA guidance, current industry practice and application. Additionally, modifications, enhancements or changes in manufacturing sites of approved products are, in many circumstances, subject to FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which may not be obtainable. The facilities of AFC are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if such inspections are unsatisfactory. Failure to comply with FDA or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of relevant product applications, termination of ongoing research, disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although we have instituted internal compliance programs, if compliance is deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on AFC. Recall or withdrawal of a customer’s product from the market or the failure of the customer to obtain regulatory approval of its products will impact forecasted revenues. A customer product that includes ingredients that are manufactured by AFC may be recalled or withdrawn from the market by the customer. The recall or withdrawal may be for reasons beyond the control of AFC. A recall or withdrawal of a product manufactured by AFC or that includes ingredients manufactured by AFC for its customers could have an adverse impact on its forecasted revenues and operating results. 33 Table of Contents AFC involves hazardous and highly potent materials and if it is unable to comply with the environmental laws and regulations to which it is subject, its results may be adversely affected. AFC involves the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous or highly potent materials. It is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable to governmental authorities or private parties for any damages that result, and the liability could exceed our resources. In addition, we could be held liable for costs associated with contamination of properties occupied by AFC, or at other parties’ disposal sites where it disposes or have disposed of hazardous wastes, even though this contamination may have been caused by third parties or the disposal may have complied with the regulatory requirements then in place. Current or future environmental laws and regulations, or adverse changes in the way current laws and regulations are interpreted or enforced, may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of AFC. As part of the acquisition transaction of AFC, it entered into a consent agreement with the California Environmental Protection Agency’s Department of Toxic Substances Control (“DTSC”) regarding certain processes that DTSC had indicated that it might regulate as hazardous waste treatment. This consent agreement resolves all current issues that DTSC has identified for the assets of AFC. This consent agreement requires AFC to take certain steps to enhance the safety and security of these processes and provides for an exchange of information, and a subsequent determination of whether these activities should be regulated under the California Hazardous Waste Control Laws. If DTSC ultimately determines that the processes should be so regulated, AFC has agreed to apply for the necessary permits and, as a condition of the permits, will have to implement permanent safety and security measures to prevent the release of hazardous materials into the environment. These additional measures may restrict AFC’ operational flexibility, present additional recordkeeping burdens, and require additional capital expenditures which could negatively affect the results of operations for AFC. Also as part of the acquisition of the AFC Business, it leased approximately 230 acres of land on the Aerojet-General Corporation Superfund Site. The Superfund law (CERCLA) has very strict joint and several liability provisions that make any “owner or operator” on a Superfund site a “potentially responsible party” for remediation activities. AFC could be considered an “operator” for purposes of the Superfund law and, in theory, could be a potentially responsible party for purposes of contribution to the site remediation. Even though we have received indemnification from the seller of the AFC Business for these potential liabilities and a “comfort letter” from the EPA indicating that it does not currently intend to pursue the Company or AFC as a potentially responsible party, there can be no assurance that AFC or the Company will be protected against any and all liabilities arising from these real properties under the Superfund law. In addition, pursuant to the EPA consent order governing remediation for this site, AFC will have to abide by certain limitations regarding construction and development of the site which may restrict AFC’ operational flexibility and require additional substantial capital expenditures that could negatively affect the results of operations for AFC. 34 Table of Contents A strike or other work stoppage, or the inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could have a material adverse effect on the cost structure and operational capabilities of AFC. As of November 30, 2005, the AFC Business had approximately 221 employees, of whom approximately 55% were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements. Of the covered employees, none are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are due to expire within one year. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements with the unions representing these employees upon expiration of the existing contracts, we could experience strikes or work stoppages. Even if AFC is successful in negotiating new agreements, the new agreements could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase its operating costs and could adversely affect its profitability. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other non-unionized operations were to become unionized, AFC could experience a significant disruption of operations at its facilities or higher ongoing labor costs. A strike or other work stoppage in the facilities of any of its major customers could also have similar effects on AFC. The pharmaceutical fine chemicals industry is a capital-intensive industry and if AFC does not have enough capital to finance the necessary capital expenditures, its business and results of operations may be harmed. The pharmaceutical fine chemicals industry is a capital-intensive industry that consumes cash from the AFC Business’ and our operations and borrowings. Upon further expansion of the operations of AFC, capital expenditures for the AFC Business are expected to increase. Increases in expenditures may result in low levels of working capital or require us to finance working capital deficits. These factors could substantially increase AFC’ operating costs and negatively impact its operating results. AFC relies on intellectual property and proprietary rights to maintain its competitive position and, therefore, failure to protect adequately its intellectual property and proprietary rights could adversely affect its market share. The technological and creative skills of the personnel are essential to establishing and maintaining AFC’ competitive advantage. Customers often turn to the AFC Business because very few companies have the specialized experience and capabilities required for energetic and high containment chemistry. If AFC fails to protect adequately its intellectual property and proprietary rights, it could allow its competitors to capture market share. AFC seeks to protect its inventions, confidential information and brand names under patent and “trade secret” laws and through the use of confidentiality procedures and written agreements. However, these laws and its efforts afford only limited protection for its intellectual property and proprietary rights. If AFC is unable to adequately protect and utilize its intellectual property or proprietary rights, its results of operations may be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents 