ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks, some of which are discussed below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in the information incorporated by reference into this report. You should consider the following risks carefully in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. 6 Table of Contents The economic slowdown has adversely impacted real estate development, reduced and delayed government funding for transportation infrastructure projects and initiatives and decreased availability of financial capital for our customers, all of which is adversely impacting our net sales and could impact our contract revenues. Decreased consumer spending, the failure of certain financial institutions and businesses, concerns about the availability and cost of credit, and reduced corporate profits and capital spending have resulted in a downturn in worldwide economic conditions, as well as budgetary shortfalls increasingly present at all levels of government. These unfavorable economic conditions are having a negative impact on customer orders and government funding of infrastructure projects incorporating our products and services. Such factors have and may continue to result in cancellations and rescheduling of backlog and customer orders. In addition, the recent decline in the U.S. real estate market, particularly in new home and commercial construction, has adversely impacted new road construction and is resulting in and may continue to result in flat or declining Roadway Sensor and Vehicle Sensor net sales in future periods and have also adversely impacted Transportation Systems contract revenues. Any of the foregoing economic conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Additionally, there continues to be uncertainties regarding the impact of the federal stimulus package and the fact that the accessibility of funds is taking longer than originally anticipated, as well as a delay in the passage of a new Federal Highway Bill. If such conditions continue or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Because we depend on government contracts and subcontracts, we face additional risks related to contracting with federal, state and local governments, including budgetary issues and fixed price contracts. A significant portion of our sales are derived from contracts with governmental agencies, either as a general contractor, subcontractor or supplier. Government contracts represented approximately 45%, 45% and 38% of our total net sales and contract revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We anticipate that revenue from government contracts will continue to remain a significant portion of our net sales and contract revenues. Government business is, in general, subject to special risks and challenges, including: · delays in funding, including delays in the allocation of funds to state and local agencies from the U.S. federal government as a result of the expiration of the 2005 Federal Highway Bill on October 31, 2009, as well as delays or reductions in stimulus funds dedicated for transportation projects; · long purchase cycles or approval processes; · competitive bidding and qualification requirements; · the impact of international conflicts; · performance bond requirements; · changes in government policies and political agendas; · other government budgetary constraints, cut-backs, delays or reallocation of government funding; · milestone requirements and liquidated damage provisions for failure to meet contract milestones; and · international conflicts or other military operations that could cause the temporary or permanent diversion of government funding from transportation or other infrastructure projects. Governmental budgets and plans are subject to change without warning. Certain risks of selling to governmental entities include dependence on appropriations and administrative allocation of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that may reflect political developments or agendas, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense competition for government business and termination of purchase decisions for the convenience of the governmental entity. Substantial delays in purchase decisions by governmental entities, and the current constraints on government budgets at the federal, state and local level, could cause our net sales and contract revenues and income to drop substantially or to fluctuate significantly between fiscal periods. 7 Table of Contents In addition, a large number of our government contracts are fixed price contracts. As a result, we may not be able to recover any cost overruns we may incur. These fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate these costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. In the event our costs on these projects exceed the fixed contractual amount, we will be required to bear the excess costs. Such additional costs would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, certain of our government contracts are subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in our net sales and contract revenues in any given period. Our inability to address any of the foregoing concerns or the loss or renegotiation of any material government contract could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. California state budgetary constraints may have a material adverse impact on us. The state of California has experienced, and is continuing to experience, a significant budget shortfall and other related budgetary issues and constraints. The state of California has historically been and is considered to be a key geographic region for our Roadway Sensors and Transportation Systems segments. Ongoing uncertainty as to the timing and accessibility of federal stimulus monies to the state, changes in state funding allocations to local agencies and municipalities, or other delays in purchasing for, or commencement of, transportation projects has and may continue to have a negative impact on our net sales and contract revenues and our income. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and have many more established competitors, which could adversely affect our sales or the market acceptance of our products. We compete with numerous other companies in our target markets including, but not limited to, large, multinational corporations, which include tier-one automotive suppliers, and many smaller regional engineering firms. We believe that as a result of the expected 2013 European mandate for LDW and other active safety systems, and an overall awareness of the potential benefits of LDW, we will experience an even higher degree of competition from a variety of tier-one OEM suppliers and other potential market entrants, worldwide. We also expect such competition to increase due to technological advancements, industry consolidations and reduced barriers to entry. Increased competition is likely to result in loss of market share, price reductions and reduced gross margins, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a developer of LDW systems was acquired by a large multinational organization during our Fiscal 2009. This new competitor has increased its market share and could be more aggressive in both the passenger car and heavy truck markets as a result of its greater access to resources and reputation in the market. Furthermore, awareness of LDW technology is increasing and other market players have developed competing technologies, which may contain improvements or added features beyond those offered by our LDW systems. Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to re-compete for LDW business from our main customer base of heavy truck OEMs. These OEMs could make a supplier change based on price, product performance or available features. Should our competition be successful, this could adversely affect our ability to successfully market and sell our LDW systems to new and existing customers. We compete with existing, well-established companies in our Roadway Sensors segment, both domestically and abroad. Certain technological barriers to entry make it difficult for new competitors to enter the market with competing video or other technologies; however, we are aware of new market entrants from time to time. Increased competition could result in loss of market share, price reductions and reduced gross margins, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our competitors have far greater name recognition and greater financial, technological, marketing, and customer service resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products than we can. Recent consolidations of end users, distributors and manufacturers in our target markets have exacerbated this problem. As a result of the foregoing factors, we may not be able to compete effectively in our target markets and competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may engage in acquisitions of companies or technologies that may require us to undertake significant capital infusions and could result in disruptions of our business and diversion of resources and management attention. We completed the acquisition of certain assets of Hamilton Signal in April 2009. We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, additional complementary businesses, products, and technologies. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions and, in general, acquisitions also involve a number of special risks, including: · potential disruption of our ongoing business and the diversion of our resources and management’s attention; · the failure to retain or integrate key acquired personnel; · the challenge of assimilating diverse business cultures, and the difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and information system of the acquired companies; · increased costs to improve managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems and to eliminate duplicative services; 8 Table of Contents · the incurrence of unforeseen obligations or liabilities; · potential impairment of relationships with employees or customers as a result of changes in management; and · increased interest expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Our competitors are also soliciting potential acquisition candidates, which could both increase the price of any acquisition targets and decrease the number of attractive companies available for acquisition. Acquisitions may also materially and adversely affect our operating results due to large write-offs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges or intangible asset amortization, or other adverse tax or accounting consequences. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any additional acquisitions, successfully integrate any acquisitions or realize the benefits anticipated from any acquisition. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel, which could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our business, we are highly dependent on the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, engineering and technical personnel. The loss of any of our officers, or any of our other executives or key members of management could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our success will also depend in large part upon our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified engineering and other highly skilled technical personnel. In particular, the future success of our Transportation Systems segment will depend on our ability to hire additional qualified engineers and planners. Competition for qualified employees, particularly development engineers, is intense. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain sufficient numbers of such highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees or the loss of one or more of our current key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain adequate utilization of our Transportation Systems workforce. The cost of providing our Transportation Systems engineering and consulting services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. The rate at which we utilize our workforce is affected by a number of factors, including: · our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and assimilate new employees; · our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in our various regions; · our need to devote time and resources to training, business development, professional development and other non-chargeable activities; and · our ability to match the skill sets of our employees to the needs of the marketplace. Our use of the percentage of completion method of accounting for our contract revenues could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A significant portion of our total net sales and contract revenues are measured and recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting. Our use of this accounting method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effects of revisions to revenues and estimated costs are recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term engineering, program management, construction management or construction contracts, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Our failure to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts could reduce our revenues and profits. Our business depends on our ability to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector customers. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which are affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a customer may require us to provide a surety bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely reduce or eliminate our profitability. 9 Table of Contents We may experience production gaps that could materially and adversely impact our sales and financial results and the ultimate acceptance of our products. It is possible that we could experience unforeseen quality control issues or part shortages as we adjust production to meet current demand for our products. We have historically used single suppliers for certain significant components in our products. Should any such delay or disruption occur, or should a key supplier discontinue operations because of the current economic climate, our future sales will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, we rely heavily on select contract manufacturers to produce many of our products and do not have any long-term contracts to guarantee supply of such products. Although we believe our contract manufacturers have sufficient capacity to meet our production schedules for the foreseeable future and we believe we could find alternative contract manufacturing sources for many of our products, if necessary, we could experience a production gap if for any reason our contract manufacturers were unable to meet our production requirements and our cost of goods sold could increase, adversely affecting our margins. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, or are unable to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected. We believe our revenue growth and future operating results will depend on our ability to complete development of new products and enhancements, introduce these products in a timely, cost-effective manner, achieve broad market acceptance of these products and enhancements, and reduce our production costs. We cannot guarantee the success of these products, and we may not be able to introduce any new products or any enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, the introduction of any new products could adversely affect the sales of certain of our existing products. We believe that we must continue to make substantial investments to support ongoing research and development in order to remain competitive. We need to continue to develop and introduce new products that incorporate the latest technological advancements in outdoor image processing hardware, software and camera technologies in response to evolving customer requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately manage product transition issues. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or changing customer requirements or if we cannot adequately manage inventory issues typically related to new product transitions and introductions. We cannot assure you that any such investments in research and development will lead to any corresponding increase in revenue. Market acceptance of our new products depends upon many factors, including our ability to accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards, our ability to resolve technical challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to qualify any new products with OEMs and achieve manufacturing efficiencies, the perceived advantages of our new products over traditional products and the marketing capabilities of our independent distributors and strategic partners, including Valeo’s ability to expand sales of LDW systems in the passenger car market. The success of our LDW system will also depend in part on the success of the automotive vehicles that incorporate our technology, as well as the success of optional equipment that OEMs bundle with our technologies. Certain of the components used in our products may need to be re-engineered in the next 12 to 36 months as the industry is moving towards a standard of using lead-free components. We cannot assure you as to our ability to successfully redesign our products to incorporate compliant components and gain market acceptance of such redesigned products. In addition, we may experience a shortage of products as a result of potential scarcity of lead-free components. Our business and results of operations could also be seriously harmed by any significant delays in our new product development. Certain of our new products could contain undetected design faults and software errors or “bugs” when first released by us, despite our testing. We may not discover these faults or errors until after a product has been installed and used by our customers. Any faults or errors in our existing products or in any new products may cause delays in product introduction and shipments, require design modifications or harm customer relationships, any of which could adversely affect our business and competitive position. New environmental regulations may result in a decline in our Vehicle Sensors net sales. From time to time, environmental regulations are enacted, which can significantly increase the cost of manufacturing new vehicles as well as the cost of maintaining existing vehicles and truck fleets. As a result, we could experience a decline in sales of our Vehicle Sensors products as truck and vehicle manufacturers and fleet operators attempt to control their costs. We depend upon Valeo to market our LDW technologies for the OEM passenger car market. We have granted Valeo the exclusive right to sell and manufacture our LDW system to the worldwide passenger car market in exchange for royalty payments for each LDW unit sold. As such, the future success and broad market acceptance of our technologies in the passenger car market will depend upon Valeo’s ability to manufacture, market and sell our technologies, and to convince more OEM passenger car manufacturers to adopt our technologies. To date, we have not generated significant royalties from Valeo’s efforts and have only been designed into one car OEM product line. If Valeo does not devote considerable resources and aggressively pursue opportunities, our expansion into the passenger car market, and our related revenues from contract engineering services and royalty revenues, could be adversely affected or not materialize as originally anticipated. 10 Table of Contents If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards, we will not be able to remain competitive and there will be no demand for our products. Our markets are in general characterized by the following factors: · rapid technological advances; · downward price pressure in the marketplace as technologies mature; · changes in customer requirements; · additional qualification requirements related to new products or components; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; · inventory issues related to transition to new or enhanced models; and · evolving industry standards and changes in the regulatory environment. Our future success will depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards, and to effectively develop, introduce, market and gain broad acceptance of new products and product enhancements incorporating the latest technological advancements. In particular, our LDW systems are incorporated into automobiles and trucks that face significant technological changes in each model year and among different vehicle models. Accordingly, we must adapt our technology from time to time to function with such changes. Our international business operations may be threatened by many factors that are outside of our control. While we historically have had limited international sales and operations experience, we began work on our first overseas contracts in Abu Dhabi and Dubai in Fiscal 2010. We plan to expand our international efforts in the future with respect to all three of our segments, but cannot assure you that we will be successful in those efforts. International operations subject us to various inherent risks including, among others: · currency fluctuations and restrictions; · political, social and economic instability, as well as international conflicts and acts of terrorism; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles; · import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers or restrictions; · the burdens of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and more restrictive labor laws and obligations; · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Substantially all of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the relative value of the dollar could make our products more expensive and potentially less price competitive in international markets. We do not currently engage in any transactions as a hedge against risks of loss due to foreign currency fluctuations. Any of the factors mentioned above may adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, as we pursue the expansion of our international business, certain fixed and other overhead costs could outpace our revenues, thus adversely affecting our results of operations. We may likewise face local competitors in certain international markets who are more established, have greater economies of scale and stronger customer relationships. Furthermore, as we increase our international sales, our total revenues may also be affected to a greater extent by seasonal fluctuations resulting from lower sales that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world. If our internal controls over financial reporting do not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 currently requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. Currently, we expect that 11 Table of Contents beginning in our fiscal year ending March 31, 2011, our independent registered public accounting firm will also be required to attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We may not be able to complete the work required for such attestation on a timely basis, and even if we timely complete such requirements, our independent registered public accounting firm may still conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Iteris have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate as a result of many factors. Therefore, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. Factors that could affect our revenues include, among others, the following: · delays in government contracts and funding from time to time and budgetary constraints at the federal, state and local levels; · our ability to access stimulus funding, funding from a new Federal Highway Bill or other funding; · declines in new home and commercial real estate construction and related road and other infrastructure construction; · changes in our pricing policies and the pricing policies of our suppliers and competitors, pricing concessions on volume sales, as well as increased price competition in general; · the long lead times associated with government contracts or required by vehicle manufacturers; · the size, timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders; · our ability to control costs; · our ability to raise additional capital; · the mix of our products and services sold in a quarter, which mix has varied and is expected to continue to vary from time to time; · seasonality due to winter weather conditions; · our ability to develop, introduce, patent, market and gain market acceptance of new products, applications and product enhancements in a timely manner, or at all; · market acceptance of the products incorporating our technologies and products; · the introduction of new products by competitors; · the availability and cost of components used in the manufacture of our products; · our success in expanding and implementing our sales and marketing programs; · the effects of technological changes in our target markets; · the amount of our backlog at any given time; · the nature of our government contracts; 12 Table of Contents · deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, applications or product enhancements; · risks and uncertainties associated with our international business; · currency fluctuations and our ability to get currency out of certain foreign countries; and · general economic and political conditions; and · international conflicts and acts of terrorism. Due to all of the factors listed above as well as other unforeseen factors, our future operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As a result of these quarterly variations, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. We have experienced a decline in our net sales and contract revenues over the last fiscal year. If we fail to manage this decline effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan and may experience future weaknesses in our operating results. We have expanded our overall business in the past few years; however, we experienced a reduction in our net sales and contract revenues in Fiscal 2010. Based on our business objectives, and in order to achieve future growth, we will need to continue to add additional qualified personnel, and invest in additional research and development and sales and marketing activities. Our past expansion has placed, and future expansion is expected to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage these activities successfully, our growth, our business, our financial condition and our results of operations could continue to be adversely affected. We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce the proprietary aspects of our technology, competitors could be able to access our proprietary technology and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be seriously harmed. We currently attempt to protect our technology through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. Despite our efforts, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technologies or systems. Our competitors may also be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately in the United States or abroad. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. An adverse outcome in litigation or any similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license disputed rights from others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products or technologies. We may not be able to obtain any licenses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may have to indemnify certain customers or strategic partners if it is determined that we have infringed upon or misappropriated another party’s intellectual property. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, including legal fees and expenses, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Until recently, we have historically generated significant net losses and operating losses, and have experienced volatility in our cash flows from operations from year to year. Although we entered into a $19.5 million credit facility, effective October 2008, should we have an event of default, which includes, among other things, a failure to meet certain financial covenants and a material adverse change in the business, the bank could choose to limit or take away our ability to borrow these or any funds. Should this occur, or if the credit markets further tighten, we may need or choose to raise additional capital to pursue acquisitions or to expand our operations. At March 31, 2010, we had $10.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and the availability of borrowing against our $12.0 million line of credit to fund our operations, subject to certain funded to debt to EBITDA requirements. We may need to raise additional capital in the near future to fund our operations or to repay indebtedness. Such additional capital may be raised through bank borrowings, or other debt or equity financings. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, and such additional financing may result in further dilution to our stockholders. 13 Table of Contents Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: · market acceptance of our products and product enhancements, and the overall level of sales of our products; · our ability to control costs; · the supply of key components for our products; · our ability to increase revenue and net income; · increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses; · our need to respond to technological advancements and our competitors’ introductions of new products or technologies; · capital improvements to new and existing facilities and enhancements to our infrastructure and systems; · potential acquisitions of businesses and product lines; · our relationships with customers and suppliers; · government budgets, political agendas and other funding issues, including potential delays in government contract awards; · our ability to successfully negotiate credit arrangements with our bank and the state of the financial markets, in general; and · general economic conditions, including the effects of the current economic slowdown and international conflicts. If our capital requirements are materially different from those currently planned, we may need additional capital sooner than anticipated. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations as planned, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, we historically generated significant losses and may experience losses in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or improve our financial performance, or that we will be able to continue to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our ability to maintain profitability in future periods could be impacted by budgetary constraints, government and political agendas, economic instability and other items that are not in our control. Most of our expenses are fixed in advance. As such, we generally are unable to reduce our expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. As a result, we may experience operating losses and net losses in the future, which would make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. Since January 2001, our Class A common stock (now known as our common stock) has traded at prices as low as $0.45 per share and as high as $8.00 per share. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: · quarterly variations in operating results; · our ability to control costs, improve cash flow and sustain profitability; · our ability to raise additional capital; · shortages announced by suppliers; · announcements of technological innovations or new products or applications by our competitors, customers or us; · transitions to new products or product enhancements; · acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; · the impact of any litigation; 14 Table of Contents · changes in investor perceptions; · government funding, political agendas and other budgetary constraints; · changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts; and · international conflicts, political unrest and acts of terrorism. The stock market in general has from time to time experienced volatility, which has often affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of a class action lawsuit, it could result in substantial losses and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters. We could experience negative financial impacts arising from developments in contingencies created under our previous structure or by former subsidiaries. Although we divested ourselves of all business units prior to October 2004, from time to time we could experience unforeseen developments in contingencies related to our former subsidiaries. Although we are not aware of any other material contingencies, it is possible other matters could be brought against us in connection with activities related to former subsidiaries and that such matters could materially and adversely affect our financial results and cash flows. Certain provisions of our charter documents may discourage a third party from acquiring us and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though an acquisition might be beneficial to our stockholders. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. In addition, in August 2009, we adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend of preferred stock purchase rights to our stockholders. Generally, the stockholder rights plan provides that if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock, subject to certain exceptions and under certain circumstances, the rights may be exchanged by us for common stock or the holders of the rights, other than the acquiring person or group, could acquire additional shares of our capital stock at a discount off of the then current market price. Such exchanges or exercise of rights could cause substantial dilution to a particular acquirer and discourage the acquirer from pursuing our company. The mere existence of a stockholder rights plan often delays or makes a merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 