ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks, some of which are discussed below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in the information incorporated by reference into this report. You should consider the following risks carefully in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, before deciding to buy, sell, or hold our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. 5 Table of Contents THE ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN HAS ADVERSELY IMPACTED REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT, REDUCED OR DELAYED GOVERNMENT FUNDING FOR TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS AND INITIATIVES AND DECREASED AVAILABILITY OF FINANCIAL CAPITAL FOR OUR CUSTOMERS, ALL OF WHICH HAVE ADVERSELY IMPACTED OUR NET SALES AND COULD IMPACT OUR CONTRACT REVENUES. Decreased consumer spending, the failure of certain financial institutions and businesses, concerns about the availability and cost of credit, and reduced corporate profits and capital spending have resulted in a downturn in worldwide economic conditions, as well as budgetary shortfalls increasingly present at all levels of government. These unfavorable economic conditions have had a negative impact on customer orders and government funding of infrastructure projects incorporating our products and services. Such concerns may result in cancellations and rescheduling of backlog. In addition, the recent decline in the U.S. real estate market, particularly in new home and commercial construction, has adversely impacted new road construction and has resulted in and may continue to result in flat or slightly declining Roadway Sensor and Vehicle Sensor net sales and could adversely impact Transportation Systems contract revenues. Any of the foregoing economic conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions continue or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. BECAUSE WE DEPEND ON GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS AND SUBCONTRACTS, WE FACE ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATED TO CONTRACTING WITH FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS, INCLUDING BUDGETARY ISSUES AND FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS. A significant portion of our sales are derived from contracts with governmental agencies, either as a general contractor, subcontractor or supplier. Government contracts represented approximately 45%, 38% and 38% of our total net sales and contract revenues for the years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We anticipate that revenue from government contracts will continue to remain a significant portion of our net sales and contract revenues. Government business is, in general, subject to special risks and challenges, including: · long purchase cycles or approval processes; · competitive bidding and qualification requirements; · the impact of international conflicts; · delays in funding, including delays in the allocation of funds to state and local agencies from the U.S. federal government as a result of the expiration of the 2005 Federal Highway Bill occurring in September 2009; · performance bond requirements; · changes in government policies and political agendas; · other government budgetary constraints, cut-backs, delays or reallocation of government funding; and · milestone requirements and liquidated damage provisions for failure to meet contract milestones. Governmental budgets and plans are subject to change without warning. Certain risks of selling to governmental entities include dependence on appropriations and administrative allocation of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that may reflect political developments or agendas, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense competition for government business and termination of purchase decisions for the convenience of the governmental entity. Substantial delays in purchase decisions by governmental entities, or governmental budgetary constraints, could cause our net sales and contract revenues and income to drop substantially or to fluctuate significantly between fiscal periods. In addition, a large number of our government contracts are fixed price contracts. As a result, we may not be able to recover any cost overruns we may incur. These fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate these costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. In the event our costs on these projects exceed the fixed contractual amount, we will be required to bear the excess costs. Such additional costs would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, certain of our government contracts are subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in our net sales and contract revenues in any given quarter. Our inability to address any of the foregoing concerns or the loss or renegotiation of any material government contract could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents CURRENT BUDGETARY CONSTRAINTS DUE TO THE SIGNIFICANT MILITARY OPERATIONS IN THE MIDDLE EAST OR ELSEWHERE MAY IMPACT GOVERNMENT FUNDING OR CONSUMER SPENDING, CAUSING A DECLINE IN OUR REVENUES. In the near term, the funding of U.S. military operations in the Middle East or elsewhere may cause additional disruptions in funding of government contracts. Since military operations of such magnitude are not routinely included in U.S. defense budgets, supplemental legislative funding actions are often required to finance such operations. Even when such legislation is enacted, it may not be adequate for ongoing operations, causing other government resources to be temporarily or permanently diverted. Since a significant portion of our sales are derived from contracts with government agencies, such diversion of funds could produce interruptions in funding or delays in receipt of our contracts, causing disruptions and adversely effecting our revenue and operations. THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE OPERATE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND HAVE MANY MORE ESTABLISHED COMPETITORS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES OR THE MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS. We compete with numerous other companies in our target markets including, but not limited to, large, multinational corporations, which include tier one automotive suppliers, and many smaller regional engineering firms. We expect such competition to increase due to technological advancements, industry consolidations and reduced barriers to entry. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In Fiscal 2007, we began to experience more competition in our Roadway Sensors segment as the Department of Transportation in one of our largest sales territories moved to a multi-source contracting environment from one in which we were the sole supplier. In addition, one of the other developers of LDW systems was acquired by a large multinational organization during Fiscal 2009. This new competitor has increased its market share and could be more aggressive in both the passenger car and heavy truck markets, as a result of its greater access to resources and reputation in the market. As a result, we have experienced increased price competition, which could erode our margins. Additional new competitors have entered this market and more competitors may enter in the future. Furthermore, awareness of LDW technology is increasing and other market players have developed competing technologies, which may contain improvements or added features beyond those offered by our LDW systems. Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to re-compete for LDW business from our main customer base of heavy truck OEMs. These OEMs could make a supplier change based on price, product performance or available features. Should our competition be successful, this could adversely affect our ability to successfully market and sell our LDW systems to new and existing customers. Many of our competitors have far greater name recognition and greater financial, technological, marketing, and customer service resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products than we can. Recent consolidations of end users, distributors and manufacturers in our target markets have exacerbated this problem. As a result of the foregoing factors, we may not be able to compete effectively in our target markets and competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY EXPERIENCE PRODUCTION GAPS THAT COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR SALES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS AND THE ULTIMATE ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS. It is possible that we could experience unforeseen quality control issues or part shortages as we adjust production to meet current demand for our products. We have historically used single suppliers for certain significant components in our products. Should any such delay or disruption occur, or should a key supplier discontinue operations because of the current economic climate, our future sales will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, we rely heavily on select contract manufacturers to produce many of our products and do not have any long-term contracts to guarantee supply of such products. Although we believe our contract manufacturers have sufficient capacity to meet our production schedules for the foreseeable future and we believe we could find alternative contract manufacturing sources for many of our products, if necessary, we could experience a production gap if for any reason our contract manufacturers were unable to meet our production requirements and our cost of good sold could increase, adversely affecting our margins. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL, WHICH COULD SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Due to the specialized nature of our business, we are highly dependent on the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, engineering and technical personnel. The loss of Abbas Mohaddes, our Chief Executive Officer, or any of the other executive officers or key members of management could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our success will also depend in large part upon our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified engineering and other highly skilled technical personnel. In particular, the future success of our Transportation Systems segment will depend on our ability to hire additional qualified engineers and planners. Competition for qualified employees, particularly development engineers, is intense. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain sufficient numbers of such highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees or the loss of one or more of our current key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS AND PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS SUCCESSFULLY AND IN A COST-EFFECTIVE AND TIMELY MANNER, OR ARE UNABLE TO ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR NEW PRODUCTS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We believe our revenue growth and future operating results will depend on our ability to complete development of new products and enhancements, introduce these products in a timely, cost-effective manner, achieve broad market acceptance of these products and enhancements, and reduce our product costs. We cannot guarantee the success of these products, and we may not be able to introduce any new products or any enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, the introduction of any new products could adversely affect the sales of certain of our existing products. We believe that we must continue to make substantial investments to support ongoing research and development in order to remain competitive. We need to continue to develop and introduce new products that incorporate the latest technological advancements in outdoor image processing hardware, software and camera technologies in response to evolving customer requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately manage product transition issues. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or changing customer requirements or if we cannot adequately manage inventory issues typically related to new product transitions and introductions. We cannot assure you that any such investments in research and development will lead to any corresponding increase in revenue. Market acceptance of our new products depends upon many factors, including our ability to accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards, our ability to resolve technical challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, qualify any new products with OEMs and achieve manufacturing efficiencies, the perceived advantages of our new products over traditional products and the marketing capabilities of our independent distributors and strategic partners, including Valeo’s ability to expand sales of LDW systems in the passenger car market. The success of our LDW system will also depend in part on the success of the automotive vehicles that incorporate our technology, as well as the success of optional equipment that OEMs bundle with our technologies. Certain of the components used in our products may need to be re-engineered in the next 12 to 36 months as the industry is moving towards a standard of using lead-free components. We cannot assure you as to the timing of the adoption of this new standard or our ability to successfully redesign our products to incorporate compliant components and gain market acceptance of such redesigned products. In addition, if the standard is adopted earlier than anticipated we may experience a shortage of products as a result of potential scarcity of lead-free components. Our business and results of operations could also be seriously harmed by any significant delays in our new product development. Certain of our new products could contain undetected design faults and software errors or “bugs” when first released by us, despite our testing. We may not discover these faults or errors until after a product has been installed and used by our customers. Any faults or errors in our existing products or in any new products may cause delays in product introduction and shipments, require design modifications or harm customer relationships, any of which could adversely affect our business and competitive position. NEW ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY RESULT IN A DECLINE IN OUR VEHICLE SENSORS NET SALES. From time to time, environmental regulations are enacted, which can significantly increase the cost of manufacturing new vehicles as well as the cost of maintenance of existing vehicles and truck fleets. As a result, we could experience a decline in sales of our Vehicle Sensors products as truck and vehicle manufacturers and fleet operators attempt to control their costs. WE MAY ENGAGE IN ACQUISITIONS OF COMPANIES OR TECHNOLOGIES THAT MAY REQUIRE US TO UNDERTAKE SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL INFUSIONS AND COULD RESULT IN DISRUPTIONS OF OUR BUSINESS AND DIVERSION OF RESOURCES AND MANAGEMENT ATTENTION. We have in the past acquired, and may in the future acquire, complementary businesses, products, and technologies. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions and, in general, acquisitions also involve a number of special risks, including: · potential disruption of our ongoing business and the diversion of our resources and management’s attention; · the failure to retain or integrate key acquired personnel; · the challenge of assimilating diverse business cultures, and the difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and information system of the acquired companies; · increased costs to improve managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems and to eliminate duplicative services; · the incurrence of unforeseen obligations or liabilities; · potential impairment of relationships with employees or customers as a result of changes in management; and · increased interest expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Our competitors are also soliciting potential acquisition candidates, which could both increase the price of any acquisition targets and decrease the number of attractive companies available for acquisition. Acquisitions may also materially and adversely affect our operating results due to large write-offs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges or intangible asset amortization, or other adverse tax or accounting consequences. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any additional acquisitions, successfully integrate any acquisitions or realize the benefits anticipated from any acquisition. 8 Table of Contents WE DEPEND UPON VALEO TO MARKET OUR LDW TECHNOLOGIES FOR THE OEM PASSENGER CAR MARKET. We have granted Valeo the exclusive right to sell and manufacture our LDW system to the worldwide passenger car market in exchange for royalty payments for each LDW unit sold. As such, the future success and broad market acceptance of our technologies in the passenger car market will depend upon Valeo’s ability to manufacture market and sell our technologies, and to convince more OEM passenger car manufacturers to adopt our technologies. To date, we have not generated significant royalties from Valeo’s efforts and have only been designed into one car OEM product line. If Valeo does not devote considerable resources and aggressively pursue opportunities, our expansion into the passenger car market could be adversely affected. IF WE DO NOT KEEP PACE WITH RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES AND EVOLVING INDUSTRY STANDARDS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE AND THERE WILL BE NO DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Our markets are in general characterized by the following factors: · rapid technological advances; · downward price pressure in the marketplace as technologies mature; · changes in customer requirements; · additional qualification requirements related to new products or components; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; · inventory issues related to transition to new or enhanced models; and · evolving industry standards and changes in the regulatory environment. Our future success will depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards, and to effectively develop, introduce, market and gain broad acceptance of new products and product enhancements incorporating the latest technological advancements. In particular, our LDW systems are incorporated into automobiles and trucks that face significant technological changes in each model year and among different vehicle models. Accordingly, we must adapt our technology from time to time to function with such changes. OUR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS OPERATIONS MAY BE THREATENED BY MANY FACTORS THAT ARE OUTSIDE OF OUR CONTROL. We currently market our products internationally and we anticipate that our international operations will expand in the near future. International business operations are subject to various inherent risks including, among others: · currency fluctuations and restrictions; · political, social and economic instability; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles; · import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers or restrictions; · the burdens of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and more restrictive labor laws and obligations; · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. All of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the relative value of the dollar could make our products more expensive and potentially less price competitive in international markets. We do not engage in any transactions as a hedge against risks of loss due to foreign currency fluctuations. 9 Table of Contents Any of the factors mentioned above may adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, as we increase our international sales, our total revenues may also be affected to a greater extent by seasonal fluctuations resulting from lower sales that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world. IF OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING DO NOT COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT, OUR BUSINESS AND STOCK PRICE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 currently requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. Beginning with Fiscal 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm will also be required to attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We may not be able to complete the work required for such attestation on a timely basis, and even if we timely complete such requirements, our independent auditors may still conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Iteris have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON TERMS ACCEPTABLE TO US, OR AT ALL. Until recently, we have historically generated significant net losses and operating losses, and have experienced volatility in our cash flows from operations from year to year. Although we entered into a new $19.5 million credit facility, effective October 2008, should we have an event of default, which includes, among other things, a failure to meet certain financial covenants and a material adverse change in the business, the bank could choose to limit or take away our ability to borrow these or any funds. Should this occur, or if the credit markets further tighten, we may need or choose to raise additional capital to refinance the remaining debentures, pursue acquisitions or to expand our operations. At March 31, 2009, we had $6.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and our entire $12.0 million line of credit to fund our operations. We may need to raise additional capital in the near future to fund our operations or to repay indebtedness. Such additional capital may be raised through bank borrowings, or other debt or equity financings. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, and such additional financing may result in further dilution to our stockholders. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: · market acceptance of our products and product enhancements, and the overall level of sales of our products; · our ability to control costs; · the supply of key components for our products; · our ability to increase revenue and net income; · increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses; · our need to respond to technological advancements and our competitors’ introductions of new products or technologies; · capital improvements to new and existing facilities and enhancements to our infrastructure and systems; · potential acquisitions of businesses and product lines; 10 Table of Contents · our relationships with customers and suppliers; · government budgets, political agendas and other funding issues, including potential delays in government contract awards; · our ability to successfully negotiate credit arrangements with our bank and repay our subordinated convertible debentures; and · general economic conditions, including the effects of the current economic slowdown and international conflicts. If our capital requirements are materially different from those currently planned, we may need additional capital sooner than anticipated. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations as planned, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE AS A RESULT OF MANY FACTORS. THEREFORE, WE MAY FAIL TO MEET OR EXCEED THE EXPECTATIONS OF SECURITIES ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. Factors that could affect our revenues include, among others, the following: · changes in our pricing policies and the pricing policies of our suppliers and competitors, pricing concessions on volume sales, as well as increased price competition in general; · the long lead times associated with government contracts or required by vehicle manufacturers; · the size, timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders; · delays in government contracts and funding from time to time and budgetary constraints at the federal, state and local levels; · declines in new home construction and related road and other infrastructure construction; · our ability to control costs; · our ability to raise additional capital; · the mix of our products and services sold in a quarter, which mix has varied and is expected to continue to vary from time to time; · seasonality due to winter weather conditions; · international conflicts and acts of terrorism; · our ability to develop, introduce, patent, market and gain market acceptance of new products, applications and product enhancements in a timely manner, or at all; · market acceptance of the products incorporating our technologies and products; · the introduction of new products by competitors; · the availability and cost of components used in the manufacture of our products; · our success in expanding and implementing our sales and marketing programs; 11 Table of Contents · the effects of technological changes in our target markets; · the amount of our backlog at any given time; · the nature of our government contracts; · deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, applications or product enhancements; · risks and uncertainties associated with our international business; · currency fluctuations and our ability to get currency out of certain foreign countries; and · general economic and political conditions. Due to all of the factors listed above as well as other unforeseen factors, our future operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As a result of these quarterly variations, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED GROWTH IN RECENT PERIODS. IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS PLAN AND MAY EXPERIENCE FUTURE WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS. We have expanded our overall business in the past few years. In order to achieve our business objectives, we will need to continue to expand our business and add additional qualified personnel. Such expansion has placed and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OR ENFORCE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH COULD HARM OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce the proprietary aspects of our technology, competitors could be able to access our proprietary technology and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be seriously harmed. We currently attempt to protect our technology through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. Despite our efforts, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technologies or systems. Our competitors may also be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately in the United States or abroad. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. An adverse outcome in litigation or any similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license disputed rights from others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products or technologies. We may not be able to obtain any licenses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may have to indemnify certain customers or strategic partners if it is determined that we have infringed upon or misappropriated another party’s intellectual property. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, including legal fees and expenses, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE HAVE HISTORICALLY EXPERIENCED SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES AND MAY EXPERIENCE LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. Although we have achieved net income in our past four fiscal years, we experienced a net loss of $11.3 million in the year ended March 31, 2005 and significant net losses in prior years. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or improve our financial performance, or that we will be able to continue to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Most of our expenses are fixed in advance. As such, we generally are unable to reduce our expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. As a result, we may continue to experience operating losses and net losses, which would make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS HIGHLY VOLATILE. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. Since February 2001, our Class A common stock (now known as our common stock) has traded at prices as low as $0.45 per share and as high as $6.12 per share. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: 12 Table of Contents · quarterly variations in operating results; · our ability to control costs, improve cash flow and sustain profitability; · our ability to raise additional capital; · shortages announced by suppliers; · announcements of technological innovations or new products or applications by our competitors, customers or us; · transitions to new products or product enhancements; · acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; · the impact of any litigation; · changes in investor perceptions; · government funding, political agendas and other budgetary constraints; · changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts; and · international conflicts, political unrest and acts of terrorism. The stock market in general has from time to time experienced volatility, which has often affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of a class action lawsuit, it could result in substantial losses and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters. WE COULD EXPERIENCE NEGATIVE FINANCIAL IMPACTS ARISING FROM DEVELOPMENTS IN CONTINGENCIES CREATED UNDER OUR PREVIOUS STRUCTURE OR BY FORMER SUBSIDIARIES. Although we divested ourselves of all business units prior to October 2004, from time to time we could experience unforeseen developments in contingencies related to our former subsidiaries. For example, in July 2006 we entered into a settlement agreement in connection with a lawsuit brought against Mariner Networks, Inc., one of our former subsidiaries, by one of Mariner’s suppliers, pursuant to which we issued 88,912 shares of our common stock to this supplier (valued at $213,000 as of the date of issuance), paid this supplier $125,000 on October 20, 2006 and are required to pay an additional $350,000 in 36 equal monthly installments of $9,700 through October 2009. Although we are not aware of any other material contingencies, it is possible other matters could be brought against us in connection with activities related to former subsidiaries and that such matters could materially and adversely affect our financial results and cash flows. CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE COMPANY’S CHARTER DOCUMENTS MAY DISCOURAGE A THIRD PARTY FROM ACQUIRING US AND MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though an acquisition might be beneficial to our stockholders. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. Our future issuance of preferred stock also could be used to effect a stockholder rights plan, which could discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 