ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Any investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information included in this Form 10-K before purchasing our Common Stock. Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, they are not the only risks relating to our business and our Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that are not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If any of the events described below occur, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. The market price of our Common Stock could decline due to any of these risks, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Raw materials Supreme does not have long-term raw material contracts and is dependent upon suppliers of steel, aluminum, wood products and fiberglass materials, for its manufacturing operations. Consequently, our ability to produce and deliver our products could be affected by disruptions encountered by our raw material suppliers or freight carriers. Additionally, competitive market conditions may prevent the Company from implementing price increases to offset raw material cost increases. Chassis availability Supreme generally does not purchase vehicle chassis for its inventory. Supreme accepts shipment of vehicle chassis owned by dealers or end-users, for the purpose of installing and/or manufacturing its specialized truck bodies and buses on such chassis. In the event of a labor disruption or other uncontrollable event adversely affecting the limited number of companies which manufacture and/or deliver such chassis, Supreme’s level of manufacturing could be substantially reduced. The Company has established relationships with all major chassis manufacturers, and in the event of a disruption in supply from one manufacturer the Company would attempt to divert its demand to the other manufacturers. Approximately 30% of the chassis involved in Supreme’s manufacturing have been secured through converter pool agreements with three major chassis manufacturers that provide for truck chassis pools at each of Supreme’s manufacturing facilities. Competition The competitive nature of the specialized vehicle industry creates a number of challenges for the Company. Important factors include product pricing, quality of product, lead times, geographic proximity to customers and the ability to manufacture a product customized to customer specifications. Management believes that the Company has a competitive advantage in each of these areas due to its years of experience in the industry, established dealer/distributor relationships, strong relationships with chassis manufacturers and its nationwide presence. However, specialized vehicles are produced by a number of smaller, regional companies, which create product pricing pressures that could adversely impact the Company’s profits. Chassis manufacturers have not generally shown an interest in manufacturing specialized vehicles, including truck bodies and shuttle buses, because such manufacturers’ highly-automated assembly line operations do not lend themselves to the efficient production of a wide variety of highly specialized vehicles with various options and equipment. Environmental and health and safety liabilities Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental and health and safety statutes and regulations, including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to water, treatment, storage and disposal of waste, and remediation of contaminated sites. In certain cases, these requirements may limit the productive capacity of our operations. However, since other companies are subject to similar regulations, such regulations are not believed to have an adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position. 7 Certain laws, including the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, have imposed strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for costs to remediate contaminated sites upon designated responsible parties including site owners or operators and persons who dispose of wastes at, or transport wastes to, such sites. From time to time, we have received notices of noncompliance with respect to our operations. These have typically been resolved by investigating the alleged noncompliance and correcting any non compliant conditions. New environmental requirements, more aggressive enforcement of existing ones, or discovery of presently unknown conditions could require material expenditures or result in liabilities which could limit expansion or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating cash flows. Possibility of material losses from product liability and warranty claims We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of our current and formally manufactured products result, or are alleged to result, in personal injury and/or property damage. If we manufacture a defective product, we may experience material product liability losses in the future. In addition, we may incur significant costs to defend product liability claims. We could also incur damages and significant costs in correcting any defects, lost sales, and suffer damage to our reputation. Our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate for liabilities we could incur and may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. We are also subject to product warranty claims in the ordinary course of our business. If we manufacture poor quality products or receive defective materials, we may incur unforeseen costs in excess of what we have reserved in our financial statements. These costs could have a material adverse affect on our business and operating cash flows. We depend on the services of key management personnel, the loss of whom could materially harm us Our ability to compete successfully and implement our business strategy depends on the efforts of our senior management personnel. The loss of the services of any one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of our executives. If we were unable to attract qualified personnel to our management, our existing management resources could become strained which would harm our business and our ability to implement our strategies. Price volatility and low trading volumes Our Class A Common Stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility and low trading volumes. Overall market conditions, and other risk factors described herein, may cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to fall. Our high and low sales prices for the twelve months period ended December 31, 2005, were $9.56 and $5.90, respectively. Our Class A Common Stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol “STS.” However, daily trading volumes for our Class A Common Stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other public-traded securities. For example, during the twelve months period ended December 31, 2005, our daily trading volume has been as low as zero. It may be difficult for you to sell your shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of our Class A Common Stock may, therefore, be volatile. 8 Our officers and directors own a large percentage of our Common Stock, and they may control our business and affairs. Our officers and directors as a group beneficially own approximately 33.2% of our Class A Common Stock and 90.9% of our Class B Common Stock. As a result, they will continue to be able to exercise significant influence, and in most cases, control, over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our charter documents, and significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our Class A Common Stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. Split classes of stock make it difficult for a third party to acquire the company Our outstanding Common Stock is split into two classes. The Class A Common Stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange, and the holders thereof are entitled to elect three members of the Company’s Board of Directors. The majority (90.9%) of the Class B Common Stock is owned or controlled by the Company’s officers and directors and is entitled to elect the remaining six members of the Company’s Board of Directors. The continuing ability of the holders of our Class B Common Stock to elect a majority of the members of the Company’s Board of Directors will make it difficult for another company to acquire us and for you to receive any related take-over premium for your shares (unless the controlling group approves the acquisition). (See other risk factors listed under the following captions: Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Forward-Looking Statements, and Control Risks) ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None ITEM 