Item 1A. Risk Factors We can be adversely impacted by reductions or changes in NASA or U.S. government military spending. Both our Specialty Chemicals and Aerospace Equipment segments conduct business, directly or indirectly, with NASA and the U.S. Government. Our perchlorate chemicals, as part of our Specialty Chemicals business, accounted for approximately 28%, 65% and 85% of our revenues during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Ammonium perchlorate, or AP, is the sole oxidizing agent for solid fuel rockets, booster motors and missiles used in space exploration. Our principal space customers are Alliant Techsystems, Inc., or ATK, for the Space Shuttle Program and the Delta family of commercial rockets, and Aerojet General Corporation for the Atlas family of commercial rockets. We also supply AP for use in a number of defense programs, including the Minuteman, Navy Standard Missile, Patriot and Multiple Launch Rocket System programs. As a majority of our sales are to the U.S. government and its prime contractors, we depend heavily on the contracts underlying these programs. Also, significant portions of our sales come from a small number of customers. ATK accounted for 18%, 50% and 51% of our revenues during the fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We have supplied AP for use in space and defense programs for over 40 years. We have supplied AP to various foreign defense programs and commercial space programs, although AP is subject to strict export license controls. Since the 1990’s, demand for perchlorate chemicals has been declining. The suspension of Space Shuttle missions after the Columbia disaster in February 2003 further reduced sales volume of our Grade I AP products. This reduced sales volume exceeded the actual consumption of Grade I AP product by our customers. As a result, our customers’ inventory of Space Shuttle Grade I AP increased. We believe that over the next several years, overall demand for Grade I AP will be relatively level as compared to fiscal 2006 and largely driven by requirements for the Minuteman program which should provide a stable base for our Grade I AP revenues. Grade I AP demand could also be influenced if there is a substantial increase in Space Shuttle flights. However, it is our expectation that our customers’ Grade I AP inventories are currently sufficient to sustain nominal Space Shuttle activity for the next several years. Our expectations of Grade I AP demands are based on information currently available to us. We have no ability to influence the demand for Grade I AP. In addition, demand for Grade I AP is program specific and dependent upon, among other things, governmental appropriations. Any decision to delay, reduce or cancel programs could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The U.S. has proposed a long-term human and robotic program to explore the solar system, starting with a return to the Moon. This program will require the development of new space exploration vehicles that may likely stimulate the demand for Grade I AP. As a consequence of the new space initiatives discussed above, as well as other factors, including the completion and utilization of the International Space Station (“ISS”), the long-term demand for Grade I AP may be driven by the timing of the retirement of the Space Shuttle fleet, the development of the new crew launch vehicle (“CLV”) and the number of CLV launches, and the development and testing of the new heavy launch vehicle (“HLV”) used to transport materials and supplies to the ISS and the Moon, and the number of HLV launches. Our revenues, operating income and cash flows from operating activities are negatively impacted by these lower sales volume levels. In addition, demand for Grade I AP is program specific and dependent upon, among other things, governmental appropriations. We have no ability to influence the demand for Grade I AP. If the use of AP as the oxidizing agent for solid fuel rockets or the use of solid fuel rockets in NASA’s space exploration programs are discontinued or significantly reduced, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. We depend on a limited number of customers for most of our sales in our Specialty Chemicals and Aerospace Equipment segments and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse affect on our net sales. Our perchlorate chemicals, as part of our Specialty Chemicals business, accounted for approximately 28%, 65% and 85% of our consolidated revenues during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. ATK accounted for 18%, 50% and 18 51% of our consolidated revenues during the fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Should our relationship with one or more of our major Specialty Chemicals or Aerospace Equipment customers change adversely, the resulting loss of business could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if one or more of our major Specialty Chemicals or Aerospace Equipment customers substantially reduced their volume of purchases from us, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Should one of our major Specialty Chemicals or Aerospace Equipment customers encounter financial difficulties, the exposure on uncollectible receivables and unusable inventory could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our existing U.S. government contracts and contracts based on U.S. government contracts are subject to continued appropriations by congress and may be terminated if future funding is not made available. U.S. government contracts are dependent on the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations for future fiscal years. In addition, most U.S. government contracts are subject to modification if funding is changed. Any failure by Congress to appropriate additional funds to any program in which we or our customers participate, or any contract modification as a result of funding changes, could materially delay or terminate the program for us or for our customers. Since our significant customers in the Specialty Chemicals segment are mainly U.S. government contractors subject to this yearly Congressional appropriations process, their purchase of our products are also dependent on their U.S. government contracts not being materially curtailed. U.S. government contracts or contracts based on U.S. government contracts in our Specialty Chemicals segment accounted for almost all of our revenues during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our U.S. government or U.S. government contractor contracts can be categorized as either “cost-plus” or “fixed-price.” Cost-Plus Contracts: Cost-plus contracts are cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-incentive-fee, or cost-plus-award-fee contracts. Cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts allow us to recover our approved costs plus a fixed fee. Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts and cost-plus-award-fee contracts allow us to recover our approved costs plus a fee that can fluctuate based on actual results as compared to contractual targets for factors such as cost, quality, schedule, and performance. Fixed-Price Contracts: Fixed-price contracts are firm-fixed-price, fixed-price-incentive, or fixed-price-level-of-effort contracts. Under firm-fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform certain work for a fixed price and absorb any cost underruns or overruns. Fixed-price-incentive contracts are fixed-price contracts under which the final contract prices may be adjusted based on total final costs compared to total target cost, and may be affected by schedule and performance. Fixed price-level-of-effort contracts allow for a fixed price per labor hour, subject to a contract cap. All fixed-price contracts present the inherent risk of unreimbursed cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. The U.S. government also regulates the accounting methods under which costs are allocated to U.S. government contracts. As a result, all fixed-price contracts involve the inherent risk of un-reimbursed cost overruns. To the extent that we did not anticipate the increase in cost of producing our products which are subject to a fixed-price contract, our profitability would be adversely affected. Our U.S. government contracts and our customer’s U.S. government contracts are subject to termination. We are subject to the risk that the U.S. government may terminate its contracts with its suppliers, either for its convenience or in the event of a default by the contractor. If a cost-plus contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to reimbursement of its approved costs. If the contractor would have incurred a loss had the entire contract been performed, then no profit is allowed by the U.S. government. If the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive payment of a total fee proportionate to the percentage of the work completed under the contract. If a fixed-price contract is terminated, the contractor is entitled to receive payment for items delivered to and accepted by the U.S. government. If the termination is for convenience, the contractor is also entitled to receive fair compensation 19 for work performed plus the costs of settling and paying claims by terminated subcontractors, other settlement expenses, and a reasonable profit on the costs incurred or committed. If a contract termination is for default: • the contractor is paid an amount agreed upon for completed and partially completed products and services accepted by the U.S. government, • the U.S. government is not liable for the contractor’s costs for unaccepted items, and is entitled to repayment of any advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract, and • the contractor may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. In addition, since our significant customers are U.S. government contractors, they may cease purchasing our products if their contracts are terminated, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flow. We are subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations, non-compliance with which may expose us to adverse consequences. Our Specialty Chemicals and Aerospace Equipment segments are subject to extensive and complex U.S. government procurement laws and regulations, along with ongoing U.S. government audits and reviews of contract procurement, performance, and administration. We could suffer adverse consequences if we were to fail to comply, even inadvertently, with these laws and regulations or with laws governing the export of munitions and other controlled products and commodities; or commit a significant violation of any other federal law. These consequences could include contract termination; civil and criminal penalties; and, under certain circumstances, our suspension and debarment from future U.S. government contracts for a period of time. In addition, foreign sales are subject to greater variability and risk than our domestic sales. Foreign sales subject us to numerous stringent U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in material adverse consequences to us. These procurement laws and regulations also provide for ongoing audits and reviews of incurred costs as well as contract procurement, performance and administration. The U.S. government may, if appropriate, conduct an investigation into possible illegal or unethical activity in connection with these contracts. Investigations of this nature are common in the aerospace and defense industry, and lawsuits may result. In addition, the U.S. government and its principal prime contractors periodically investigate the financial viability of its contractors and subcontractors as part of its risk assessment process associated with the award of new contracts. If the U.S. government or one or more prime contractors were to determine that we were not financially viable, our ability to continue to act as a government contractor or subcontractor would be impaired. Our operations and properties are currently the subject of numerous environmental and other government regulations, which may become more stringent in the future and may reduce our profitability and liquidity. Our operations are subject to extensive Federal, State and local regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water and waste management. To meet changing licensing and regulatory standards, we may be required to make additional significant site or operational modifications, potentially involving substantial expenditures or the reduction or suspension of certain operations. In addition, the operation of our manufacturing plants entails risk of adverse environmental and health effects (not covered by insurance) and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred to rectify any future occurrences related to environmental or health matters. Review of Perchlorate Toxicity by EPA – Perchlorate (the “anion”) is not currently included in the list of hazardous substances compiled by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), but it is on the EPA’s Contaminant Candidate List. The EPA has conducted a risk assessment relating to perchlorate, two drafts of which were subject to formal peer reviews held in 1999 and 2002. Following the 2002 peer review, the EPA perchlorate risk assessment together with other perchlorate related science was reviewed by the National Academy of Sciences (“NAS”). This NAS report was released on January 11, 2005. The recommendations contained in this NAS report indicate that human health is protected in drinking water at a level of 24.5 parts per billion (“ppb”). Certain states have also conducted risk 20 assessments and have set preliminary levels from 1 – 14 ppb. The EPA has established a reference dose for perchlorate of .0007 mg/kg/day which is equal to a Drinking Water Equivalent Level (“DWEL”) of 24.5 ppb. A decision as to whether or not to establish a Maximum Contaminate Level (“MCL”) is pending. The outcome of these federal EPA actions, as well as any similar state regulatory action, will influence the number, if any, of potential sites that may be subject to remediation action. Perchlorate Remediation Project in Henderson, Nevada – We commercially manufactured perchlorate chemicals at a facility in Henderson, Nevada (the “Ampac Henderson Site”) from 1958 until the facility was destroyed in May 1988, after which we relocated our production to a new facility in Iron County, Utah. Kerr-McGee Chemical Corp (“KMCC”) also operated a perchlorate production facility in Henderson, Nevada from 1967 to 1998. Between 1956 to 1967, American Potash operated a perchlorate production facility at the same site. For many years prior to 1956, other entities also manufactured perchlorate chemicals at that site. In 1998, Kerr-McGee Chemical LLC became the operating entity and it ceased the production of perchlorate at the Kerr McGee Henderson Site. Thereafter, it continued to produce other chemicals at this site until it was recently sold. As a result of a longer production history at Henderson, KMCC and its predecessor operations have manufactured significantly greater amounts of perchlorate over time than we did at the Ampac Henderson Site. In 1997, the Southern Nevada Water Authority (“SNWA”) detected trace amounts of the perchlorate anion in Lake Mead and the Las Vegas Wash. Lake Mead is a source of drinking water for Southern Nevada and areas of Southern California. Las Vegas Wash flows into Lake Mead from the Las Vegas valley. In response to this discovery by SNWA, and at the request of the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection (“NDEP”), we engaged in an investigation of groundwater near the Ampac Henderson site and down gradient toward the Las Vegas Wash. That investigation and related characterization which lasted more than six years, employed experts in the field of hydrogeology. This investigation concluded that, although there is perchlorate in the groundwater in the vicinity of the Ampac Henderson Site up to 700 ppm, perchlorate from this Site does not materially impact, if at all, water flowing in the Las Vegas Wash toward Lake Mead. It has been well established, however, by data generated by SNWA and NDEP, that perchlorate from the Kerr McGee Henderson Site did materially impact the Las Vegas Wash and Lake Mead. Kerr McGee’s successor, Tronox LLC, operates an ex situ perchlorate groundwater remediation facility at their Henderson site and this facility has had a significant effect on the load of perchlorate entering Lake Mead over the last 5 years. Recent measurements of perchlorate in Lake Mead made by SNWA have been less than 10 ppb. Notwithstanding these facts, and at the direction of NDEP and EPA, we conducted a investigation of remediation technologies for perchlorate in groundwater with the intention of remediating groundwater near the Ampac Henderson Site. The technology that was chosen as most efficient and appropriate is in situ bioremediation (“ISB”). The technology reduces perchlorate in the groundwater by precise addition of an appropriate carbon source to the groundwater itself while it is still in the ground (as opposed to an above ground, more conventional, ex situ process). This induces naturally occurring organisms in the groundwater to reduce the perchlorate among other oxygen containing compounds. In 2002, we conducted a pilot test in the field of the ISB technology and it was successful. On the basis of the successful test and other evaluations, in fiscal 2005 we submitted a Work Plan to NDEP for the construction of a Leading Edge Remediation Facility (“Athens System”) near the Ampac Henderson Site. The conditional approval of the Work Plan by NDEP in our third quarter of fiscal 2005 allowed us to generate estimated costs for the installation and operation of the Leading Edge and Source Remediation Facilities that will address perchlorate from the Ampac Henderson Site. We commenced construction of the Athens System in July, 2005. In June 2006, we began operations of an interim Athens System that is, as of July 2006, reducing perchlorate concentrations in system extracted groundwater in Henderson. The permanent Athens System plant began operation in December 2006. The permanent facility will increase remediation capacity over the temporary facility. Henderson Site Environmental Remediation Reserve – During our fiscal 2005 third quarter, we recorded a charge for $22,400 representing our estimate of the probable costs of our remediation efforts at the Henderson Site, including the costs for equipment, operating and maintenance costs, and consultants. Key factors in determining the total estimated cost include an estimate of the speed of groundwater entering the treatment area, which was then used to estimate a project life of 45 years, as well as estimates for capital expenditures and annual operating and maintenance costs. The 21 project consists of two primary phases; the initial construction of the remediation equipment and the operating and maintenance phase. We commenced the construction phase in late fiscal 2005, completed an interim system in June 2006, and completed the permanent facility in December 2006. During our fiscal 2006, we increased our total cost estimate for the construction phase by $3,600 due primarily to changes in the engineering designs, delays in receiving permits and the resulting extension of construction time. These estimates are based on information currently available to us and may be subject to material adjustment upward or downward in future periods as new facts or circumstances may indicate. The production of most of our Specialty Chemicals products is conducted in a single facility and our operations will be materially affected if production at that facility is disrupted. Most of our Specialty Chemicals products are produced at our Iron County, Utah facility. A significant disruption at this facility, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship our Specialty Chemicals products to the market on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, as well as increases in prices of raw materials, could adversely impact our operations. Key raw materials used in our operations include salt, sodium chlorate, graphite, ammonia and hydrochloric acid. We closely monitor sources of supply to assure that adequate raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes are available. In addition, as a U.S. government contractor, we are frequently limited to procuring materials and components from sources of supply that can meet rigorous customer and/or government specifications. In addition, as business conditions, the Department of Defense (DOD) budget, and Congressional allocations change, suppliers of specialty chemicals and materials sometimes consider dropping low volume items from their product lines, which may require, as it has in the past, qualification of new suppliers for raw materials on key programs. The qualification process may impact our profitability or ability to meet contract deliveries. We are also impacted by the cost of these raw materials used in production on fixed-price contracts. The increased cost of natural gas and electricity also has an impact on the cost of operating our Specialty Chemicals facilities. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Our Fine Chemicals segment may be unable to comply with customer specifications and manufacturing instructions, experience schedule delays or other problems with existing or new products and systems, which could result in increased costs and loss of sales. Our Fine Chemicals segment, which is operated by our Ampac Fine Chemicals LLC subsidiary, or AFC, produces chemical compounds that are difficult to manufacture, including highly energetic, highly toxic and high potency materials. These chemical compounds are manufactured to exacting specifications of our customers’ filings with the Food & Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities world-wide. The production of these chemicals requires a high degree of precision and strict adherence to safety and quality standards. Regulatory agencies, such as the FDA, and the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Products, or EMEA, have regulatory oversight over the production process for many of the products that AFC manufactures for its customers. AFC employs sophisticated and rigorous manufacturing and testing practices to ensure compliance with the FDA’s “cGMP” and the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) Q7A. If AFC is unable to adhere to these standards and produce these chemical compounds to the standards required by our customers, its operating results and revenues will be negatively impacted. Failure to meet strict timing or delivery requirements could cause AFC to be in breach of material customer contracts. AFC is a capital intensive business. Certain major customers have agreed to reimburse AFC for all or a portion of the cost of acquiring or installing certain production equipment to insure sufficient supply of the customer’s product. AFC must meet strict timelines for installation and validation of the production equipment and the manufacturing processes. 22 Failure to install and validate the production equipment and to validate the production process in a timely manner could result in delays in production or in breach of contract claims which could adversely impact revenues and operating results of AFC. In addition, the rate of utilization of AFC production capacity is currently very high. Therefore, AFC may experience significant delays in its production if its production capability experiences unscheduled reductions. This may in turn cause AFC to be in breach of its material customer contracts, which could adversely affect its revenues and operating results. Because AFC currently manufactures a limited number of products for a small number of customers, a problem with any of its significant customers or the final products that our chemical compound is a part could materially adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. AFC’s success is largely dependent upon contract manufacturing of a limited number of intermediates or APIs for a limited number of key customers. Its top three products generated approximately 73% of our consolidated sales in fiscal 2006. Furthermore, the top five customers of AFC accounted for approximately 97% of its revenues in fiscal 2006. Any negative development in these customer contracts or relationships or in the customer’s business may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of AFC. In addition, if the pharmaceutical products that AFC’s customers produce using its compounds experience any problems, including problems related to their safety or efficacy, filing with the FDA or is not successful in the market, these customers may substantially reduce or cease to purchase AFC’ compounds, which will have a material adverse effect on the revenues and results of operations of AFC. Finally, certain customers have agreed to reimburse AFC for all or a portion of the substantial cost of acquiring or installing certain production equipment. Due to the relative size of these customers, their contracts and the capital investment required, failure of the customer to reimburse AFC for these capital investments could have a material adverse effect on the our operating results. AFC depends heavily on third parties for the supply of certain raw materials used in its production processes. AFC uses substantial amounts of raw materials in its production processes. Increases in the prices of raw materials which AFC purchases from third party suppliers could adversely impact revenue and operating results. In certain cases, the customer provides some of the raw materials which are used by AFC to produce or manufacture the customer’s products. Failure to receive raw materials in a timely manner, whether from a third party supplier or a customer, could cause AFC to fail to meet production schedules and adversely impact revenues. Certain key raw materials are obtained from sources from outside the U.S. A delay in the arrival in the shipment of raw material from a third party supplier could have a significant impact on AFC’ ability to meet its contractual commitments to customers. Successful commercialization of pharmaceutical products and product line extensions is very difficult and subject to many uncertainties. If a customer is not able to successfully commercialize its products for which AFC produces compounds, then the operating results of AFC may be negatively impacted. Successful commercialization of products and product line extensions requires accurate anticipation of market and customer acceptance of particular products, customers’ needs, the sale of competitive products, and emerging technological trends, among other things. Additionally, for successful product development, the customers must complete many complex formulation and analytical testing requirements and timely obtain regulatory approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies. When developed, new or reformulated drugs may not exhibit desired characteristics or may not be accepted by the marketplace. Complications can also arise during production scale-up. In addition, these products may encounter unexpected, irresolvable patent conflicts or may not have enforceable intellectual property rights. If the customer is not able to successfully commercialize their products for which AFC produces compounds for, then the operating results of AFC may be negatively impacted. AFC or its customers may be unable to obtain government approval for its products or comply with government regulations relating to its business. The commercialization of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation in the U.S. and similar foreign regulation. We do not know the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and other regulatory actions and developments concerning various aspects of the operations and products of AFC or its 23 customers and the health care field generally. We do not know what effect changes in governmental regulation and other actions or decisions by governmental agencies may have on AFC in the future. Any changes could impose on AFC or its customers changes to manufacturing methods or facilities, pharmaceutical importation, expanded or different labeling, new approvals, the recall, replacement or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping, testing, price or purchase controls or limitations, and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and scientific substantiation. Any regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on AFC, its financial condition and results of operations or its competitive position. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, pricing, reimbursement and advertising of these products, and disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are also subject to regulation by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Customs Service, as well as state, local and foreign governments. Before marketing most drug products, AFC’s customers generally are required to obtain approval from the FDA based upon pre-clinical testing, clinical trials showing safety and efficacy, chemistry and manufacturing control data, and other data and information. The generation of these required data is regulated by the FDA and can be time-consuming and expensive, and the results might not justify approval. Even if AFC customers are successful in obtaining all required pre-marketing approvals, post-marketing requirements and any failure on either parties’ part to comply with other regulations could result in suspension or limitation of approvals or commercial activities pertaining to affected products. The FDA could also require reformulation of products during the post-marketing stage. All of AFC’s products must be manufactured in conformance with cGMP regulations, as interpreted and enforced by the FDA, the International Conference on Harmonization ICH Q7A, and drug products subject to an FDA-approved application must be manufactured, processed, packaged, held and labeled in accordance with information contained in the regulations, current FDA guidance, current industry practice and application. Additionally, modifications, enhancements or changes in manufacturing sites of approved products are, in many circumstances, subject to FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which may not be obtainable. The facilities of AFC are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if such inspections are unsatisfactory. Failure to comply with FDA or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of relevant product applications, termination of ongoing research, disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although we have instituted internal compliance programs, if compliance is deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on AFC. Recall or withdrawal of a customer’s product from the market or the failure of the customer to obtain regulatory approval of its products will impact forecasted revenues. A customer product that includes ingredients that are manufactured by AFC may be recalled or withdrawn from the market by the customer. The recall or withdrawal may be for reasons beyond the control of AFC. A recall or withdrawal of a product manufactured by AFC or that includes ingredients manufactured by AFC for its customers could have an adverse impact on its forecasted revenues and operating results. Failure of a customer to obtain regulatory approval for marketing a drug that utilizes an ingredient manufactured by AFC could have an adverse effect on AFC’s performance. AFC involves hazardous and highly potent materials and if it is unable to comply with the environmental laws and regulations to which it is subject, its results may be adversely affected. AFC involves the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous or highly potent materials. It is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable to governmental authorities or 24 private parties for any damages that result, and the liability could exceed our resources. In addition, we could be held liable for costs associated with contamination of properties occupied by AFC, or at other parties’ disposal sites where it disposes or have disposed of hazardous wastes, even though this contamination may have been caused by third parties or the disposal may have complied with the regulatory requirements then in place. Current or future environmental laws and regulations, or adverse changes in the way current laws and regulations are interpreted or enforced, may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of AFC. Also as part of the acquisition of AFC by us, AFC leased approximately 230 acres of land on the Aerojet-General Corporation Superfund Site. The Superfund law (CERCLA) has very strict joint and several liability provisions that make any “owner or operator” on a Superfund site a “potentially responsible party” for remediation activities. AFC could be considered an “operator” for purposes of the Superfund law and, in theory, could be a potentially responsible party for purposes of contribution to the site remediation. Even though we have received indemnification from the seller of AFC for these potential liabilities and a “comfort letter” from the EPA indicating that it does not currently intend to pursue the Company or AFC as a potentially responsible party, there can be no assurance that AFC or the Company will be protected against any and all liabilities arising from these real properties under the Superfund law. In addition, pursuant to the EPA consent order governing remediation for this site, AFC will have to abide by certain limitations regarding construction and development of the site which may restrict AFC’ operational flexibility and require additional substantial capital expenditures that could negatively affect the results of operations for AFC. A strike or other work stoppage, or the inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could have a material adverse effect on the cost structure and operational capabilities of AFC. As of September 30, 2006, AFC had approximately 141 employees that were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements which expire in June 2007. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements with the unions representing these employees upon expiration of the existing contracts, we could experience strikes or work stoppages. Even if AFC is successful in negotiating new agreements, the new agreements could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase its operating costs and could adversely affect its profitability. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other non-unionized operations were to become unionized, AFC could experience a significant disruption of operations at its facilities or higher ongoing labor costs. A strike or other work stoppage in the facilities of any of its major customers could also have similar effects on AFC. The pharmaceutical fine chemicals industry is a capital-intensive industry and if AFC does not have enough capital to finance the necessary capital expenditures, its business and results of operations may be harmed. The pharmaceutical fine chemicals industry is a capital-intensive industry that consumes cash from our Fine Chemicals segment and our other operations and borrowings. Upon further expansion of the operations of AFC, capital expenditures for AFC are expected to increase. Increases in expenditures may result in low levels of working capital or require us to finance working capital deficits. These factors could substantially increase AFC’ operating costs and negatively impact its operating results. We have a substantial amount of debt, and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect our ability to take actions or our liquidity or financial condition. In connection with the acquisition of our Fine Chemicals segment business, we have incurred a substantial amount of debt for which we are required to make interest and principal payments. As of September 30, 2006, we had total consolidated debt of approximately $107 million. Subject to the limits contained in some of the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future or we may refinance some or all of these debt. Our level of debt places significant demands on our cash resources, which could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, developing our real estate assets and other general corporate purposes; 25 • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; or • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and fund our operating costs, our liquidity may be adversely affected. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply could result in defaults that accelerate the payment under our debt. Our outstanding debt generally contains various restrictive covenants. These covenants include provisions restricting our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt, incur contingent obligations and issue additional preferred stock; • create liens; • pay dividends, distributions or make other specified restricted payments, and restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • sell assets; • make certain capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Any of the covenants described in this risk factor may restrict our operations and our ability to pursue potentially advantageous business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could also result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. Although we have established reserves for our environmental liabilities, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may not be sufficient. As of September 30, 2006, we had established reserves of approximately $18 million, which we believe to be sufficient to cover our estimated environmental liabilities at that time. However, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. We continually evaluate the adequacy of those reserves, and they could change. In addition, the reserves are based only on known sites and the known contamination at those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination at previously identified sites will be discovered. This could lead us to have additional expenditures for environmental remediation in the future and given the many uncertainties involved in assessing liability for environmental claims, our reserves may prove to be insufficient. The release or explosion of dangerous materials used in our business could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur additional costs and liability. Our operations involve the handling, production, storage, and disposal of potentially explosive or hazardous materials and other dangerous chemicals, including materials used in rocket propulsion. Despite our use of specialized facilities to handle dangerous materials and intensive employee training programs, the handling and production of hazardous materials could result in incidents that temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations and could cause production delays. It is possible that a release of these chemicals or an explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and others. Material property damage to us and third parties could also occur. The use of these products in applications by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion or fire were to occur. Any release or explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. On May 4, 1988, our former manufacturing and office facilities in Henderson, Nevada were destroyed by a series of massive explosions and associated fires. Extensive property damage occurred both at our facilities and in immediately 26 adjacent areas, the principal damage occurring within a three-mile radius. Production of AP ceased for a 15-month period. Significant interruptions were also experienced in our other businesses, which occupied the same or adjacent sites. There can be no assurance that another incident would not interrupt some or all of the activities carried on at our current manufacturing site. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological changes could impair our ability to remain competitive. The aerospace and defense industry, the pharmaceutical fine chemicals industry and the other specialty chemicals, performance products and environmental protection equipment industries in which we participate have all undergone rapid and significant technological development over the last few years. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we are able to, allowing them to provide more effective products at more competitive prices. As an example, the automotive airbag market is currently the largest consumer of sodium azide. New automotive inflator systems that do not use sodium azide have gained substantial market share and, as a consequence, there has been a substantial decline in the demand for sodium azide. Based upon market information received from inflator manufacturers, we expect that sodium azide use will continue to decline and that bag inflators using sodium azide will be phased out over approximately five years. Currently, demand for sodium azide is substantially less than supply on a worldwide basis. Future technological developments could: • adversely impact our competitive position if we are unable to react to these developments in a timely or efficient manner; • require us to write-down obsolete facilities, equipment and technology; • require us to discontinue production of obsolete products before we can recover any or all of our related research, development and commercialization expenses; or • require significant capital expenditures for research, development and launch of new products or processes. Our proprietary rights may be violated or compromised, which could damage our operations. We own numerous patents, patent applications and unpatented trade secret technologies in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of these rights. In addition, independent third parties may develop competitive or superior technologies. If we are unable to adequately protect and utilize our intellectual property or property rights, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We are subject to intense competition in certain of the industries where we compete and therefore may not be able to compete successfully. Other than the sale of AP, for which we are the sole supplier in the U.S., we face significant competition in all of the other industries that we participate in, including from competitors with greater resources than ours. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, production and other resources substantially greater than ours. Moreover, barriers to entry, other than capital availability, are low in some of the product segments of our business. Capacity additions or technological advances by existing or future competitors may also create greater competition, particularly in pricing. In particular, the pharmaceutical fine chemicals market is fragmented and competitive. Competition in the pharmaceutical fine chemicals market is based upon reputation, service, manufacturing capability and expertise, price and reliability of supply. AFC faces increasing competition against pharmaceutical contract manufacturers located in the People’s Republic of China and India, where production costs are significantly less. If AFC is unable to compete successfully, its results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. Furthermore, there is a worldwide over-supply of sodium azide, which creates significant price competition for that product. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors and our inability to do so could result in a decrease in revenues that we historically have generated from the sale of our products. Due to the nature of our business, our sales levels may fluctuate causing our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter could result in volatility in our common stock price. Our quarterly and annual sales are affected by a variety of factors that could lead to significant variability in our operating results. In our Specialty Chemicals segment, the need for our products are generally based on contractually defined 27 milestones that our customers are bound by and these milestones may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. In our Fine Chemicals segment, some of our products require multiple steps of chemistries, the production of which can span multiple quarterly periods. Revenue is typically recognized after the final step and when the product has been shipped and accepted by the customer. As a result of this multi-quarter process, revenues and related profits can vary from quarter to quarter. The cyclicality and volatility of the chemical industry affects our capacity utilization and causes fluctuations in our results of operations. The operating rates at our facilities will impact the comparison of period-to-period results. Different facilities may have differing operating rates from period to period depending on many factors, such as transportation costs and supply and demand for the product produced at the facility during that period. As a result, individual facilities may be operated below or above rated capacities in any period. We may idle a facility for an extended period of time because an oversupply of a certain product or a lack of demand for that product makes production uneconomical. The expenses of the shutdown and restart of facilities may adversely affect quarterly results when these events occur. In addition, a temporary shutdown may become permanent, resulting in a write-down or write-off of the related assets. A loss of key personnel or highly skilled employees could disrupt our operations. Our executive officers are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain these officers and other capable management personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with two of our corporate executive officers that allow those officers to terminate their employment with certain levels of severance under particular circumstances, such as a change of control affecting our company. Although we believe that we will be able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do so could disrupt the operations of the segment affected or our overall operations. Furthermore, our business is very technical and the technological and creative skills of our personnel are essential to establishing and maintaining our competitive advantage. For example, customers often turn to our AFC because very few companies have the specialized experience and capabilities required for energetic and high containment chemistry. Our operations could be disrupted by a shortage of available skilled employees or if we are unable to retain these highly skilled and experienced employees. Our Shareholder Rights Plan, Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. We have a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group which attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors; • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors; and • special voting requirements for the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware laws, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions and the rights plan may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may continue to expand our operations through acquisitions, which could divert management’s attention and expose us to unanticipated liabilities and costs. We may experience difficulties integrating the acquired operations, and we may incur costs relating to acquisitions that are never consummated. Our business strategy could include growth through future acquisitions. However, our ability to consummate and integrate effectively any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain financing. Our success in integrating 28 newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems and, where necessary, requalify our customer programs. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities. We may also incur costs and divert management attention to acquisitions that are never consummated. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. It is also possible that expected synergies from past or future acquisitions may not materialize. Although we undertake a diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 29 