Risk Factors (Dollars in Thousands) Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, including those described below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock or other securities. We depend on a limited number of customers for most of our sales in our Specialty Chemicals, Aerospace Equipment and Fine Chemicals segments and the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Most of the perchlorate chemicals we produce, which accounted for 91% of our total revenues in the Specialty Chemicals segment for fiscal 2008 and approximately 26% of our total revenues for fiscal 2008, are purchased by a small number of customers. For example, Alliant Techsystems Inc., one of our ammonium perchlorate, or AP, customers, accounted for 16% of our total revenues for fiscal 2008. In our Aerospace Equipment segment, 74% of our total revenues in this segment for fiscal 2008 was from three customers. Should our relationship with one or more of our major Specialty Chemicals or Aerospace Equipment customers change adversely, the resulting loss of business could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if one or more of our major Specialty Chemicals or Aerospace Equipment customers substantially reduced their volume of purchases from us or otherwise delayed some or all of their purchase from us, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Should one of our major Specialty Chemicals or Aerospace Equipment customers encounter financial difficulties, the exposure on uncollectible receivables and unusable inventory could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our Fine Chemicals segment’s success is largely dependent upon AFC’s manufacturing of a limited number of registered intermediates and APIs for a limited number of key customers. One customer of AFC accounted for 31% of our consolidated revenue and the top three customers of AFC accounted for approximately 89% of its revenues, and 54% of our consolidated revenues, in fiscal 2008. Negative development in these customer relationships or in the customer’s business, or failure to renew or extend certain contracts, may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of AFC. Moreover, one or more of these customers might reduce their orders in the future, which could have a similar negative effect on the results of operations of AFC. In addition, if the pharmaceutical products that AFC’s customers produce using its compounds experience any problems, including problems related to their safety or efficacy, delays in filing with or approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, failures in achieving success in the market, expiration or loss of patent/regulatory protection, or competition, including competition from generic drugs, these customers may substantially reduce or cease to purchase AFC’s compounds, which could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and results of operations of AFC. 19 Table of Contents The inherent limitations of our fixed-price or similar contracts may impact our profitability. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from our fixed-price or similar contracts. When we enter into fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the scope of work specified in the contract for a predetermined price. Many of our fixed-price or similar contracts require us to provide a customized product over a long-period at a pre-established price or prices for such product. For example, when AFC is initially engaged to manufacture a product, we often agree to set the price for such product, and any time-based increases to such price, at the beginning of the contracting period and prior to fully testing and beginning the customized manufacturing process. Depending on the fixed price negotiated, these contracts may provide us with an opportunity to achieve higher profits based on the relationship between our total estimated contract costs and the contract’s fixed price. However, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to incur a loss on the contract, which could reduce our net sales and net earnings. Ultimately, fixed-price contracts and similar types of contracts present the inherent risk of un-reimbursed cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. Moreover, to the extent that we do not anticipate the increase in cost over time to produce the products which are the subject of our fixed-price contracts, our profitability could be adversely affected. The numerous and often complex laws and regulations and regulatory oversight to which our operations and properties are subject, the cost of compliance, and the effect of any failure to comply could reduce our profitability and liquidity. The nature of our operations subject us to extensive and often complex and frequently changing federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations and regulatory oversight, including with respect to emissions to air, discharges to water and waste management as well as with respect to the sale and, in certain cases, export of controlled products. For example, in our Fine Chemicals segment, modifications, enhancements or changes in manufacturing sites of approved products are subject to complex regulations of the FDA, and, in many circumstances, such actions may require the express approval of the FDA, which in turn may require a lengthy application process and, ultimately, may not be obtainable. The facilities of AFC are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if such inspections are unsatisfactory. AFC’s customers face similarly high regulatory requirements. Before marketing most drug products, AFC’s customers generally are required to obtain approval from the FDA based upon pre-clinical testing, clinical trials showing safety and efficacy, chemistry and manufacturing control data, and other data and information. The generation of these required data is regulated by the FDA and can be time-consuming and expensive, and the results might not justify approval. Even if AFC customers are successful in obtaining all required pre-marketing approvals, post-marketing requirements and any failure on either AFC’s or its customer’s part to comply with other regulations could result in suspension or limitation of approvals or commercial activities pertaining to affected products. Because we operate in highly regulated industries, we may be affected significantly by legislative and other regulatory actions and developments concerning or impacting various aspects of our operations and products or our customers. To meet changing licensing and regulatory standards, we may be required to make additional significant site or operational modifications, potentially involving substantial expenditures or the reduction or suspension of certain operations. For example, in our Fine Chemicals segment, any regulatory changes could impose on AFC or its customers changes to manufacturing methods or facilities, pharmaceutical importation, expanded or different labeling, new approvals, the recall, replacement or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping, testing, price or purchase controls or limitations, and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and scientific substantiation. AFC’s failure to comply with governmental regulations, in particular those of the FDA, can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of relevant product applications, termination of ongoing research, disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although we have instituted internal compliance programs, if regulations change and compliance is deficient in any significant way, it could 20 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on us. In our Specialty Chemicals and Fine Chemicals segments, changes in environmental regulations could result in requirements to add or modify emissions control, water treatment, or waste handling equipment, processes or arrangements, which could impose significant additional costs for equipment at and operation of our facilities. Moreover, in other areas of our business, we are, like other government and military contractors and subcontractors, subject directly or indirectly in many cases to government contracting regulations and the additional costs, burdens and risks associated with meeting these heightened contracting requirements. Failure to comply with government contracting regulations may result in contract termination, the potential for substantial civil and criminal penalties, and, under certain circumstances, our suspension and debarment from future U.S. government contracts for a period of time. For example, these consequences could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks or filing false claims. In addition, the U.S. government and its principal prime contractors periodically investigate the U.S. government’s contractors and subcontractors, including with respect to financial viability, as part of the U.S. government’s risk assessment process associated with the award of new contracts. Consequently, for example, if the U.S. government or one or more prime contractors were to determine that we were not financially viable, our ability to continue to act as a government contractor or subcontractor would be impaired. Further, a portion of our business involves the sale of controlled products overseas, such as supplying AP to various foreign defense programs and commercial space programs. Foreign sales subject us to numerous additional complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing import-export controls applicable to the sale and export of munitions and other controlled products and commodities, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. The costs of complying with the various and often complex and frequently changing laws and regulations and regulatory oversight applicable to us and the businesses in which we engage, and the consequences should we fail to comply, even inadvertently, with such requirements, could be significant and could reduce our profitability and liquidity. In addition, we are subject to numerous federal laws and regulations due to our status as a publicly traded company, as well as rules and regulations of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. Any changes in these legal and regulatory requirements could increase our compliance costs and negatively affect our results of operations. A significant portion of our business depends on contracts with the government or its prime contractors and these contracts are impacted by governmental priorities and are subject to potential fluctuations in funding or early termination, including for convenience, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Sales to the U.S. government and its prime contractors and subcontractors represent a significant portion of our business. In fiscal 2008, substantially all of our revenues generated from our perchlorate products, and in particular Grade I AP, and a significant component of our Aerospace Equipment segment revenues were generated from our U.S. government contracts and our customers’ U.S. government contracts. One significant use of Grade I AP historically has been in NASA’s Space Shuttle program. Consequently, the long-term demand for Grade I AP may be driven by the timing of the retirement of the Space Shuttle fleet as well as by the development of next-generation space exploration vehicles, including the development and testing of a new heavy launch vehicle used to transport materials and supplies to the International Space Station, the Moon and Mars, and the number of space exploration launches. If the use of AP as the oxidizing agent for solid propellant rockets or the use of solid propellant rockets in NASA’s space exploration programs are discontinued or significantly reduced, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, or cash flows. The funding of U.S. governmental programs is generally subject to annual congressional appropriations, and congressional priorities are subject to change. In the case of major programs, U.S. government contracts are usually incrementally funded. In addition, U.S. government expenditures for defense and NASA programs may fluctuate from year to year and specific programs, in connection with which we may 21 Table of Contents receive significant revenue, may be terminated. Recent credit and other economic crises, and the U.S. government’s corresponding actions, may result in cutbacks in major government programs. A decline in government expenditures or any failure by Congress to appropriate additional funds to any program in which we or our customers participate, or any contract modification as a result of funding changes, could materially delay or terminate the program for us or for our customers. Moreover, the U.S. government may terminate its contracts with its suppliers either for its convenience or in the event of a default by the supplier. Since a significant portion of our customer base is either the U.S. government or U.S. government contractors, we may have limited ability to collect fully on our contracts when the U.S. government terminates its contracts. If a contract is terminated by the U.S. government for convenience, recovery of costs typically would be limited to amounts already incurred or committed, and our profit would be limited to work completed prior to termination. Moreover, in such situations where we are a subcontractor, the U.S. government contractor may cease purchasing our products if its contracts are terminated. We may have resources applied to specific government-related contracts and, if any of those contracts were terminated, we may incur substantial costs redeploying these resources. Given the significance to our business of U.S. government contracts or contracts based on U.S. government contracts, fluctuations or reductions in governmental funding for particular governmental programs and/or termination of existing governmental programs and related contracts may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flow. We may be subject to potentially material costs and liabilities in connection with environmental liabilities. Some of our operations may create risks of adverse environmental and health effects, any of which might not be covered by insurance. In the past, we have been required to take remedial action to address particular environmental and health concerns identified by governmental agencies in connection with the production of perchlorate. It is possible that we may be required to take further remedial action in the future in connection with our production of perchlorate, whether at our former facility in Henderson, Nevada, or at our current production facility in Iron County, Utah. Moreover, in connection with other operations, we may become obligated in the future for environmental liabilities if we fail to abide by limitations placed on us by governmental agencies. There can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred or restrictions will not be placed upon us in order to rectify any past or future occurrences related to environmental or health matters. Review of Perchlorate Toxicity by the EPA. Perchlorate is not currently included in the list of hazardous substances compiled by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, but it is on the EPA’s Contaminant Candidate List. The National Academy of Sciences, the EPA and certain states have set or discussed certain guidelines on the acceptable levels of perchlorate in water. The outcome of the federal EPA action, as well as any similar state regulatory action, will influence the number, if any, of potential sites that may be subject to remediation action, which could, in turn, cause us to incur material costs. It is also possible that the regulatory agencies may change clean-up standards for perchlorate, which could lead to additional expenditures for environmental remediation in the future. Perchlorate Remediation Project in Henderson, Nevada. We commercially manufactured perchlorate chemicals at a facility in Henderson, Nevada, or the “AMPAC Henderson Site”, until May 1988. In 1997, the Southern Nevada Water Authority, or SNWA, detected trace amounts of the perchlorate anion in Lake Mead and the Las Vegas Wash. Lake Mead is a source of drinking water for Southern Nevada and areas of Southern California. The Las Vegas Wash flows into Lake Mead from the Las Vegas valley. In response to this discovery by SNWA, and at the request of the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection, or NDEP, we engaged in an investigation of groundwater near the AMPAC Henderson Site and down gradient toward the Las Vegas Wash. At the direction of NDEP and the EPA, we conducted an investigation of remediation technologies for perchlorate in groundwater with the intention of remediating groundwater near the AMPAC Henderson Site. In fiscal 2005, we submitted a work plan to NDEP for the construction of a remediation facility near the AMPAC Henderson Site. The permanent plant began operation in December 2006. 22 Table of Contents Henderson Site Environmental Remediation Reserve. During fiscal 2005 and 2006, we recorded charges totaling $26,000 representing our estimate of the probable costs of our remediation efforts at the AMPAC Henderson Site, including the costs for capital equipment, operating and maintenance (“O&M”) and consultant. The project consists of two primary phases: the initial construction of the remediation equipment phase and the O&M phase. We commenced the construction phase in late fiscal 2005, completed an interim system in June 2006, and completed the permanent facility in December 2006. In fiscal 2007, we began the O&M phase. Key factors in determining the total estimated cost of our remediation efforts at the AMPAC Henderson Site include an estimate of the speed of groundwater entering the treatment area and annual O&M costs. Groundwater speed is used to estimate the number of years that may be required to operate the facility. Initially, data suggested that the total project life would extend for a period of 45 years. More recent data indicates that the total project life may be 23 years. We are unable to predict over the longer term the most probable life and accordingly have used an assumed range of 23 to 45 years of operation. We have experienced annualized O&M cost levels of approximately $1,000, which is higher than our initial estimates. This higher level of cost reflects costs to evaluate methods to optimize operating performance and maintenance of reinjection wells. In addition, we anticipate incurring similar O&M cost levels in fiscal 2009 as we continue our evaluation of methods to achieve targeted remediation results. Our range of estimated costs assumes that we will be successful in optimizing plant performance and that average annual O&M costs for the duration of the project will be approximately $380. These estimates are based on information currently available to us and may be subject to material adjustment upward or downward in future periods as new facts or circumstances may indicate. Other Environmental Matters. As part of our acquisition of the fine chemicals business of GenCorp Inc., AFC leased approximately 240 acres of land on a Superfund site in Rancho Cordova, California, owned by Aerojet-General Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of GenCorp Inc. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, has very strict joint and several liability provisions that make any “owner or operator” of a “Superfund site” a “potentially responsible party” for remediation activities. AFC could be considered an “operator” for purposes of CERCLA and, in theory, could be a potentially responsible party for purposes of contribution to the site remediation, although we received a letter from the EPA in November 2005 indicating that the EPA does not intend to pursue any clean up or enforcement actions under CERCLA against future lessees of the Aerojet property for existing contamination, provided that the lessees do not contribute to or do not exacerbate existing contamination on or under the Superfund site. Additionally, pursuant to the EPA consent order governing remediation for this site, AFC will have to abide by certain limitations regarding construction and development of the site which may restrict AFC’s operational flexibility and require additional substantial capital expenditures that could negatively affect the results of operations for AFC. Although we have established an environmental reserve for remediation activities in Henderson, Nevada, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing such liabilities, our environmental-related risks may from time to time exceed any related reserves. As of September 30, 2008, we had established reserves in connection with the AMPAC Henderson Site of approximately $14,278, which we believe to be sufficient to cover our estimated environmental liabilities for that site as of such time. However, as of such date, we had not established any other environmental-related reserves. Given the many uncertainties involved in assessing environmental liabilities, our environmental-related risks may, from time to time, exceed any related reserves, as we may not have established reserves with respect to such environmental liabilities, or any reserves we have established may prove to be insufficient. We continually evaluate the adequacy of our reserves on a quarterly basis, and they could change. In addition, reserves with respect to environmental matters are based only on known sites and the known contamination at those sites. It is possible that additional remediation sites will be identified in the future or that unknown contamination, or further contamination beyond that which is currently known, at previously identified sites will be discovered. The discovery of additional environmental exposures at sites that we currently own or operate or at which we formerly operated, or at sites to which we have sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, recycling or disposal, could lead us to have additional expenditures for environmental remediation in the future and, given the many uncertainties involved in assessing environmental liabilities, we may not have adequately reserved for such liabilities or any reserves we have established may prove to be insufficient. 23 Table of Contents For each of our Specialty Chemicals, Fine Chemicals and Aerospace Equipment segments, most production is conducted in a single facility and any significant disruption or delay at a particular facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Most of our Specialty Chemicals segment products are produced at our Iron County, Utah facility. Most of our Fine Chemicals segment products are produced at our Rancho Cordova, California facility and most of our Aerospace Equipment segment products are produced at our Niagara Falls, New York facility. Any of these facilities could be disrupted or damaged by fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, systems failures or similar events. A significant disruption at a particular facility, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship the particular business segment’s products to market on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The release or explosion of dangerous materials used in our business could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur additional costs and liability. Our operations involve the handling, production, storage, and disposal of potentially explosive or hazardous materials and other dangerous chemicals, including materials used in rocket propulsion. Despite our use of specialized facilities to handle dangerous materials and intensive employee training programs, the handling and production of hazardous materials could result in incidents that shut down (temporarily or for longer periods) or otherwise disrupt our manufacturing operations and could cause production delays. Our manufacturing operations could also be the subject of an external or internal event, such as a terrorist attack or external or internal accident, that, despite our security, safety and other precautions, results in a disruption or delay in our operations. It is possible that a release of hazardous materials or other dangerous chemicals from one of our facilities or an explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and others. Material property damage to us and third parties could also occur. For example, on May 4, 1988, our former manufacturing and office facilities in Henderson, Nevada were destroyed by a series of massive explosions and associated fires. Extensive property damage occurred both at our facilities and in immediately adjacent areas, the principal damage occurring within a three-mile radius. Production of AP ceased for a 15-month period. Significant interruptions were also experienced in our other businesses, which occupied the same or adjacent sites. There can be no assurance that another incident would not interrupt some or all of the activities carried on at our current manufacturing site. The use of our products in applications by our customers could also result in liability if an explosion, fire or other similarly disruptive event were to occur. Any release or explosion could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability and could cause us to incur additional costs and liabilities. Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, as well as increases in prices of raw materials, could adversely impact our operations. Key raw materials used in our operations include sodium chlorate, graphite, ammonia, sodium metal, nitrous oxide, HCFC-123, and hydrochloric acid. We closely monitor sources of supply to assure that adequate raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes are available. In addition, as a U.S. government contractor or subcontractor, we are frequently limited to procuring materials and components from sources of supply that can meet rigorous government and/or customer specifications. In addition, as business conditions, the U.S. defense budget, and congressional allocations change, suppliers of specialty chemicals and materials sometimes consider dropping low volume items from their product lines, which may require, as it has in the past, qualification of new suppliers for raw materials on key programs. The qualification process may impact our profitability or ability to meet contract deliveries and/or delivery timelines. We are also impacted by the cost of raw materials used in production on fixed-price contracts. The increased cost of natural gas and electricity also has a significant impact on the cost of operating our Specialty Chemicals segment facilities. 24 Table of Contents AFC uses substantial amounts of raw materials in its production processes, including petroleum-based solvents. Increases in the prices of raw materials which AFC purchases from third party suppliers could adversely impact revenue and operating results. In certain cases, the customer provides some of the raw materials which are used by AFC to produce or manufacture the customer’s products. Failure to receive raw materials in a timely manner, whether from a third party supplier or a customer, could cause AFC to fail to meet production schedules and adversely impact revenues. Certain key raw materials are obtained from sources from outside the U.S. Factors that can cause delays in the arrival of raw materials include weather, political unrest in countries from which raw materials are sourced or through which they are delivered, terrorist attacks or related events in such countries or in the U.S., and work stoppages by suppliers or shippers. A delay in the arrival of the shipment of raw materials from a third party supplier could have a significant impact on AFC’s ability to meet its contractual commitments to customers. Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any of our key raw materials, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply, or a continuing increase in the prices of raw materials and energy could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Each of our Specialty Chemicals, Fine Chemicals and Aerospace Equipment segments may be unable to comply with customer specifications and manufacturing instructions or may experience delays or other problems with existing or new products, which could result in increased costs, losses of sales and potential breach of customer contracts. Each of our Specialty Chemicals, Fine Chemicals and Aerospace Equipment segments produces products that are highly customized, require high levels of precision to manufacture and are subject to exacting customer and other requirements, including strict timing and delivery requirements. For example, our Fine Chemicals segment produces chemical compounds that are difficult to manufacture, including highly energetic and highly toxic materials. These chemical compounds are manufactured to exacting specifications of our customers’ filings with the FDA and other regulatory authorities worldwide. The production of these chemicals requires a high degree of precision and strict adherence to safety and quality standards. Regulatory agencies, such as the FDA and the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, have regulatory oversight over the production process for many of the products that AFC manufactures for its customers. AFC employs sophisticated and rigorous manufacturing and testing practices to ensure compliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices or “cGMP” guidelines and the International Conference on Harmonization Q7A. Because the chemical compounds produced by AFC are so highly customized, they are also subject to customer acceptance requirements, including strict timing and delivery requirements. If AFC is unable to adhere to the standards required or fails to meet the customer’s timing and delivery requirements, the customer may reject the chemical compounds. In such instances, AFC may also be in breach of its customer’s contract. Like our Fine Chemicals segment, our Specialty Chemicals and Aerospace Equipment segments face similar production demands and requirements. In each case, a significant failure or inability to comply with customer specifications and manufacturing requirements or delays or other problems with existing or new products could result in increased costs, losses of sales and potential breaches of customer contracts, which could affect our operating results and revenues. Successful commercialization of pharmaceutical products and product line extensions is very difficult and subject to many uncertainties. If a customer is not able to successfully commercialize its products for which AFC produces compounds or if a product is subsequently recalled, then the operating results of AFC may be negatively impacted. Successful commercialization of pharmaceutical products and product line extensions requires accurate anticipation of market and customer acceptance of particular products, customers’ needs, the sale of competitive products, and emerging technological trends, among other things. Additionally, for successful product development, our customers must complete many complex formulation and analytical testing requirements and timely obtain regulatory approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies. When 25 Table of Contents developed, new or reformulated drugs may not exhibit desired characteristics or may not be accepted by the marketplace. Complications can also arise during production scale-up. In addition, a customer’s product that includes ingredients that are manufactured by AFC may be subsequently recalled or withdrawn from the market by the customer. The recall or withdrawal may be for reasons beyond the control of AFC. Moreover, products may encounter unexpected, irresolvable patent conflicts or may not have enforceable intellectual property rights. If the customer is not able to successfully commercialize a product for which AFC produces compounds, or if there is a subsequent recall or withdrawal of a product manufactured by AFC or that includes ingredients manufactured by AFC for its customers, it could have an adverse impact on AFC’s operating results, including its forecasted or actual revenues. A strike or other work stoppage, or the inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could have a material adverse effect on the cost structure and operational capabilities of AFC. As of September 30, 2008, AFC had approximately 154 employees that were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements. In June 2007, AFC’s collective bargaining and similar agreements were renegotiated and extended to June 2010. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements with the unions representing these employees upon expiration of the existing contracts, we could experience strikes or work stoppages. Even if AFC is successful in negotiating new agreements, the new agreements could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase AFC’s operating costs and could adversely affect its profitability. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or other non-unionized operations were to become unionized, AFC could experience a significant disruption of operations at its facilities or higher ongoing labor costs. A strike or other work stoppage in the facilities of any of its major customers or suppliers could also have similar effects on AFC. The pharmaceutical fine chemicals industry is a capital-intensive industry and if AFC does not have sufficient financial resources to finance the necessary capital expenditures, its business and results of operations may be harmed. The pharmaceutical fine chemicals industry is a capital-intensive industry that consumes cash from our Fine Chemicals segment and our other operations and from borrowings. Increases in capital expenditures may result in low levels of working capital or require us to finance working capital deficits, which may be potentially costly or even unavailable in the current conditions of the credit markets in the U.S. These factors could substantially increase AFC’s costs and negatively impact its operating results. We may be subject to potential liability claims for our products or services that could affect our earnings and financial condition and harm our reputation. We may face potential liability claims based on our products and/or services in our several lines of business under certain circumstances, and any such claims could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. For example, a customer’s product may include ingredients that are manufactured by AFC. Although such ingredients are generally made pursuant to specific instructions from our customer and tested using techniques provided by our customer, the customer’s product may, nevertheless, be subsequently recalled or withdrawn from the market by the customer, and the recall or withdrawal may be due in part or wholly to product failures or inadequacies that may or may not be related to the ingredients we manufactured for the customer. In such a case, the recall or withdrawal may result in claims being made against us. Although we seek to reduce our potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with customers, we cannot assure you that such measures will be enforced or effective. We could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of the indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although legally enforceable, is not applicable in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of the applicable indemnification, or if the amount of the indemnification exceeds the financial capacity of our customer. In certain instances, we may have in place product liability insurance coverage, which is generally available in the market, but which may be limited in scope and amount. In other instances, we may have self- 26 Table of Contents insured the risk for any such potential claim. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage, if available, will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Given the current economic environment, it is also possible that our insurers may not be able to pay on any claims we might bring. Unexpected results could cause us to have financial exposure in these matters in excess of insurance coverage and recorded reserves, requiring us to provide additional reserves to address these liabilities, impacting profits. Moreover, any claim brought against us, even if ultimately found to be insignificant or without merit, could damage our reputation, which, in turn, may impact our business prospects and future results. Technology innovations in the markets that we serve may create alternatives to our products and result in reduced sales. Technology innovations to which our current and potential customers might have access could reduce or eliminate their need for our products, which could negatively impact the sale of those products. Our customers constantly attempt to reduce their manufacturing costs and improve product quality, such as by seeking out producers using the latest manufacturing techniques or by producing component products themselves, if outsourcing is perceived to be not cost effective. To continue to succeed, we will need to manufacture and deliver products, and develop better and more efficient means of manufacturing and delivering products that address evolving customer needs and changes in the market on a timely and cost-effective basis, using the latest and/or most efficient technology available. We may be unable to respond on a timely basis to any or all of the changing needs of our customer base. Separately, our competitors may develop technologies that render our existing technology and products obsolete or uncompetitive. Our competitors may also implement new technologies before we are able to do so, allowing them to provide products at more competitive prices. Technology developed by others in the future could, among other things, require us to write-down obsolete facilities, equipment and technology or require us to make significant capital expenditures in order to stay competitive. Our failure to develop, introduce or enhance products and technologies able to compete with new products and technologies in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to strong competition in certain industries in which we participate and therefore may not be able to compete successfully. Other than the sale of AP, for which we are the only North American provider, we face competition in all of the other industries in which we participate. Many of our competitors have financial, technical, production, marketing, research and development and other resources substantially greater than ours. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic or business segment downturns. Moreover, barriers to entry, other than capital availability, are low in some of the product segments of our business. Consequently, we may encounter intense bidding for contracts. Capacity additions or technological advances by existing or future competitors may also create greater competition, particularly in pricing. Further, the pharmaceutical fine chemicals market is fragmented and competitive. Competition in the pharmaceutical fine chemicals market is based upon reputation, service, manufacturing capability and expertise, price and reliability of supply. AFC faces increasing competition from pharmaceutical contract manufacturers, in particular competitors located in the People’s Republic of China and India, where production costs are significantly less. If AFC is unable to compete successfully, its results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. Furthermore, there is a worldwide over-capacity to produce sodium azide, which creates significant price competition for that product. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment in our existing and potential future customer relationships as well as in our technical, production, and marketing operations. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors and our inability to do so could result in a decrease in revenues that we historically have generated from the sale of our products. Due to the nature of our business, our sales levels may fluctuate causing our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Our quarterly and annual sales are affected by a variety of factors that could lead to significant variability in our operating results. In our Specialty Chemicals segment, the need for our products is generally 27 Table of Contents based on contractually defined milestones that our customers are bound by and these milestones may fluctuate from quarter to quarter resulting in corresponding sales fluctuations. In our Fine Chemicals segment, some of our products require multiple steps of chemistry, the production of which can span multiple quarterly periods. Revenue is typically recognized after the final step and when the product has been delivered and accepted by the customer. As a result of this multi-quarter process, revenues and related profits can vary from quarter to quarter. Consequently, due to factors inherent in the process by which we sell our products, changes in our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and could result in volatility in our common stock price. The inherent volatility of the chemical industry affects our capacity utilization and causes fluctuations in our results of operations. Our Specialty Chemicals and Fine Chemicals segments are subject to volatility that characterizes the chemical industry generally. Thus, the operating rates at our facilities will impact the comparison of period-to-period results. Different facilities may have differing operating rates from period to period depending on many factors, such as transportation costs and supply and demand for the product produced at the facility during that period. As a result, individual facilities may be operated below or above rated capacities in any period. We may idle a facility for an extended period of time because an oversupply of a certain product or a lack of demand for that product makes production uneconomical. The expenses of the shutdown and restart of facilities may adversely affect quarterly results when these events occur. In addition, a temporary shutdown may become permanent, resulting in a write-down or write-off of the related assets. A loss of key personnel or highly skilled employees could disrupt our operations. Our executive officers are critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain these officers and other capable management personnel. From time to time we have entered into employment or similar agreements with some of our executive officers and we may do so in the future, as competitive needs require. These agreements typically allow the officer to terminate employment with certain levels of severance under particular circumstances, such as a change of control affecting our company. In addition, these agreements generally provide an officer with severance benefits if we terminate the officer without cause. Although we believe that we will be able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do so or to do so in a timely fashion could disrupt the operations of the segment affected or our overall operations. Furthermore, our business is very technical and the technological and creative skills of our personnel are essential to establishing and maintaining our competitive advantage. For example, customers often turn to AFC because very few companies have the specialized experience and capabilities and associated personnel required for energetic chemistries and projects that require high containment. Our operations could be disrupted by a shortage of available skilled employees or if we are unable to retain these highly skilled and experienced employees. We may continue to expand our operations in part through acquisitions, which could divert management’s attention and expose us to unanticipated liabilities and costs. We may experience difficulties integrating the acquired operations, and we may incur costs relating to acquisitions that are never consummated. Our business strategy includes growth through future possible acquisitions, in particular in connection with our Fine Chemicals segment. Our future growth is likely to depend, in significant part, on our ability to successfully implement this acquisition strategy. However, our ability to consummate and integrate effectively any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive and suitable acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and our ability to obtain or otherwise facilitate cost-effective financing, especially during difficult and unsettled economic times in the credit market. Our success in integrating newly acquired businesses will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of management’s attention from operational matters, integrate general and administrative services and key information processing systems and, where necessary, requalify our customer programs. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs 28 Table of Contents and contingent liabilities. We may also incur costs and divert management attention to acquisitions that are never consummated. Integration of acquired operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business, than originally anticipated. It is also possible that expected synergies from past or future acquisitions may not materialize. Although we undertake a diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the ultimate actual liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. We have a substantial amount of debt, and the cost of servicing that debt could adversely affect our ability to take actions, our liquidity or our financial condition. As of September 30, 2008, we had outstanding debt totaling $110,374, for which we are required to make interest payments. Subject to the limits contained in some of the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future or we may refinance some or all of this debt. Our level of debt places significant demands on our cash resources, which could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy any other outstanding debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, reducing the amount of our cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, developing our real estate assets and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we compete; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources than we do; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; or • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and fund our operating costs, our liquidity may be adversely affected. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply could result in defaults that accelerate the payment under our debt. Our outstanding debt generally contains various restrictive covenants. These covenants include provisions restricting our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • create liens on assets to secure debt; • incur dividend or other payment restrictions with regard to restricted subsidiaries; • transfer or sell assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • create an unrestricted subsidiary; • enter into certain business activities; or • effect a consolidation, merger or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Any of the covenants described above may restrict our operations and our ability to pursue potentially advantageous business opportunities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could also result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. 29 Table of Contents Significant changes in discount rates, rates of return on pension assets, mortality tables and other factors could affect our future earnings, equity and pension funding requirements. Pension obligations and the related costs are determined using actuarial valuations that involve several assumptions. Our funding requirements are also based on these assumptions. The most critical assumptions are the discount rate, the long-term expected return on assets and mortality. Other assumptions include salary increases and retirement age. Some of these assumptions, such as the discount rate and return on pension assets, are largely outside of our control. Changes in these assumptions could affect our future earnings, equity and funding requirements. Our shareholder rights plan, Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and Amended and Restated By-laws discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent stockholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. We have a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group which attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and Amended and Restated By-laws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors; and • special voting requirements for the amendment, in certain cases, of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and our Amended and Restated By-laws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together, our charter provisions, Delaware law and the shareholder rights plan may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our proprietary and intellectual property rights may be violated, compromised, circumvented or invalidated, which could damage our operations. We have numerous patents, patent applications, exclusive and non-exclusive licenses to patents, and unpatented trade secret technologies in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary and intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of these rights. In addition, independent third parties may develop competitive or superior technologies that could circumvent the future need to use our intellectual property, thereby reducing its value. They may also attempt to invalidate patent rights that we own directly or through a license. If we are unable to adequately protect and utilize our intellectual property or proprietary rights, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 