ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information included in this Form 10-K before purchasing our Common Stock. Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, they are not the only risks relating to our business and our Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that are not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If any of the events described below occur, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. The market price of our Common Stock could decline due to any of these risks, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 4 Table of Contents A lack of credit and/or limited financing availability to the Company, its vendors, dealers, or end users could adversely affect our business. The Company’s liquidity and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if, under its current bank credit agreement, the Company’s ability to borrow money from its existing lender to finance its operations is reduced or eliminated. Similar adverse effects may also result if the Company realizes lessened credit availability from trade creditors. Additionally, many of our customers require the availability of financing to facilitate the purchase of our products. As a result, a continuing period of reduced credit availability in the marketplace could have adverse effects on the Company’s business. Increases in the price and demand for raw materials could lower our margins and profitability. Supreme generally does not have long-term raw material contracts and is dependent upon suppliers of steel, aluminum, wood products, and fiberglass materials, among others, for its manufacturing operations. Consequently, our ability to produce and deliver our products could be affected by disruptions encountered by our raw material suppliers or freight carriers. Additionally, competitive market conditions may prevent the Company from implementing price increases to offset raw material cost increases. As a result the Company’s gross margin could be adversely affected. Volatility in the supply of vehicle chassis and other vehicle components could adversely affect our business. With the exception of some StarTrans bus and Armored SUV products, the Company generally does not purchase vehicle chassis for its inventory. The Company accepts shipments of vehicle chassis owned by dealers or end-users for the purpose of installing and/or manufacturing its specialized truck bodies and buses on such chassis. Historically, General Motors Corp. (“GM”) and Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) have been the primary suppliers of our chassis. In the event of a disruption in supply from one major supplier, the Company would attempt to use another major supplier, but there can be no assurance that this attempt would be successful. Nevertheless, in the event of chassis supply disruptions, there could be unforeseen consequences that may have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business operations. The Company also faces risk relative to finance and storage charges for maintaining excess consigned chassis inventory from GM and Ford. Under these consigned inventory agreements, if a chassis is not delivered to a customer within a specified time frame, the Company is required to pay finance or storage charges on such chassis. We compete in the highly competitive specialized vehicle industry which may impact our financial results. The competitive nature of the specialized vehicle industry creates a number of challenges for the Company. Important factors include product pricing, quality of product, lead times, geographic proximity to customers, and the ability to manufacture a product customized to customer specifications. Specialized vehicles are produced by a number of smaller, regional companies which create product pricing pressures that could adversely impact the Company’s profits. Chassis manufacturers have not generally shown an interest in manufacturing specialized vehicles, including truck bodies and buses, because such manufacturers’ highly-automated assembly line operations do not lend themselves to the efficient production of a wide variety of highly-specialized vehicles with various options and equipment. We have potential exposure to environmental and health and safety liabilities which may increase costs and lower profitability. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental and health and safety statutes and regulations, including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to water, treatment, storage, and disposal of waste, and remediation of contaminated sites. In certain cases, these requirements may limit the productive capacity of our operations. Certain laws, including the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, have imposed strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for costs to remediate contaminated sites upon designated responsible parties including site owners or operators and persons who dispose of wastes at, or transport wastes to, such sites. From time to time, we have received notices of noncompliance with respect to our operations. These notices have typically been resolved by investigating the alleged noncompliance and correcting any non-compliant conditions. New environmental requirements, more aggressive enforcement of existing ones, or discovery of presently unknown conditions could require material expenditures or result in liabilities which could limit expansion or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating cash flows. 5 Table of Contents A product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage, or an inability to acquire or maintain insurance at commercially reasonable rates, could have a materially adverse effect upon our business. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of our current or formerly manufactured products result, or are alleged to result, in personal injury and/or property damage. If we manufacture a defective product, we may experience material product liability losses in the future. In addition, we may incur significant costs to defend product liability claims. We could also incur damages and significant costs in correcting any defects, lost sales, and suffer damage to our reputation. Our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate for liabilities we could incur and may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Our manufacturer’s warranties expose us to potentially significant claims. We are subject to product warranty claims in the ordinary course of our business. If we manufacture poor quality products or receive defective materials, we may incur unforeseen costs in excess of what we have reserved in our financial statements. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating cash flows. We depend on the services of our key executives. Any loss of our key executives could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our ability to compete successfully and implement our business strategy depends on the efforts of our senior management personnel. The loss of the services of any one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of our executives. If we were unable to attract qualified personnel to our management, our existing management resources could become strained, which may harm our business and our ability to implement our strategies. Our relatively low trading volumes may limit our stockholders’ ability to buy or sell their shares. Our Class A Common Stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility and low trading volumes. Overall market conditions, and other risk factors described herein, may cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to fall. Our high and low sales prices for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2011 were $3.60 and $1.71, respectively. Our Class A Common Stock is listed on the NYSE Amex exchange under the symbol “STS.” However, daily trading volumes for our Class A Common Stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other publicly-traded securities. For example, during the twelve month period ended December 31, 2011, our daily trading volume has been as low as zero. It may be difficult for you to buy or sell shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of our Class A Common Stock may, therefore, be volatile. Our officers and directors own a large percentage of our common stock. They may vote their shares in ways with which you disagree. As of March 7, 2012, our officers and directors as a group beneficially owned 25.3% of our Class A Common Stock and 89.2% of our Class B Common Stock. As a result, they will continue to be able to exercise significant influence, and in most cases, control, over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our charter documents, and significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our Class A Common Stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. Our split classes of stock may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire the Company which may adversely affect our stock price. Our outstanding Common Stock is split into two classes. The Class A Common Stock is listed on the NYSE Amex exchange, and the holders thereof are entitled to elect two members of the Company’s Board of Directors. The majority (89.2%) of the Class B Common Stock is owned or controlled by the Company’s officers and directors and is entitled to elect the remaining five members of the Company’s Board of Directors. The continuing ability of the holders of our Class B Common Stock to elect a majority of the members of the Company’s Board of Directors will make it difficult for another company to acquire us and for you to receive any related take-over premium for your shares (unless the controlling group approves the sale). 6 Table of Contents Our internal controls provide only reasonable assurance that objectives are met. Failure of one or more of these controls could adversely affect the Company. While the Company believes that its control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls, and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We have a history of losses, and we may incur losses again. The Company was significantly impacted by the severe economic recession, and for 2010, 2009, and 2008 incurred net losses of $11.5 million, $8.7 million, and $3.1 million, respectively. For all prior years through 2007, we had positive net income (and no net losses). During 2011 there were several changes in senior management of the Company which resulted in the implementation of a number of major changes in order to reverse this loss situation (see Item 7.), and for the year ended December 31, 2011, we were able to achieve a net income of $686,938. However, our ability to be profitable in the future will depend upon many factors beyond our control such as assured chassis supply and credit provided by our lenders. Even though we achieved profitability in 2011, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. Ability to sell closed down facilities. We currently own several manufacturing facilities which have been closed down and are currently being marketed for sale (see Item 2. “Properties”). Although management has exercised its best judgment to reflect accurate current market values of these properties in the Company’s financial statements, there cannot be, due to current adverse market conditions, any assurance that these properties can be sold for these values anytime in the near future. (See other risk factors listed under the following captions: Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Forward-Looking Statements). ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 7 Table of Contents 