ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks, some of which are discussed below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in the information incorporated by reference into this report. You should consider the following risks carefully in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We Have Experienced Substantial Losses And May Continue To Experience Losses For The Foreseeable Future. Although we had net income of $80,000 from continuing operations in the year ended March 31, 2006, we experienced net losses from continuing operations of $11.3 million and $1.9 million in the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. While we have divested other business units, we cannot assure you that our efforts to downsize our operations or reduce our operating expenses will improve our financial performance, or that we will be able to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Most of our expenses are fixed in advance. As such, we generally are unable to reduce our expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. As a result, we may continue to experience operating losses and net losses, which would make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We May Need To Raise Additional Capital In The Future, Which May Not Be Available On Terms Acceptable To Us, Or At All. We have generated significant net losses and operating losses in recent periods, and have experienced volatility in our cash flows from operations ranging from positive cash flows from operations of $590,000 in the year ended March 31, 2005 to negative cash flows from operations of $718,000 in the year ended March 31, 2004. Additionally, we failed to meet certain debt covenants under our credit agreement with our bank in two of our last four fiscal quarters. Our line of credit under this credit agreement expires on July 31, 2006; and we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew this line of credit facility on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. Although we completed a $10.1 million convertible debenture financing and our Iteris Subsidiary closed a $5.0 million term loan in May 2004, the majority of the proceeds from such financings were used to purchase the Series A preferred stock of our Iteris Subsidiary which were held by outside investors. At March 31, 2006, we had $131,000 of cash and cash equivalents and an outstanding balance of $2.7 million on our line of credit, which is used to fund our operations. We may need to raise additional capital in the near future to fund our operations or to repay indebtedness. Such additional capital may be raised through bank borrowings, or other debt or equity financings. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, and such additional financing may result in further dilution to our stockholders. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: · market acceptance of our products and product enhancements, and the overall level of sales of our products; · our ability to control costs; · the supply of key components for our products; · our ability to generate net income; · increased research and development expenses; · increased sales and marketing expenses; · technological advancements and our competitors’ response to our products; · capital improvements to new and existing facilities and enhancements to our infrastructure and systems; · potential acquisitions of businesses and product lines; · our relationships with customers and suppliers; 7 · government budgets, political agendas and other funding issues; · our ability to successfully negotiate credit arrangements with our bank; and · general economic conditions, including the effects of the current economic slowdown and international conflicts. If our capital requirements are materially different from those currently planned, we may need additional capital sooner than anticipated. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our operations as planned, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. If Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Do Not Comply With The Requirements Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Our Business And Stock Price Could Be Adversely Affected. Along with our independent registered public accounting firm, we will be evaluating the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 currently requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year beginning in our fiscal year ending March 31, 2008 at the earliest, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008 at the earliest. Section 404 also requires our independent accountant to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. We may not be able to complete our Section 404 compliance on a timely basis and even if we timely complete our compliance requirements, our independent auditors may still conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been, or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As of March 31, 2005, we became aware of a material weakness in our internal controls related to the accounting for the consolidation of our deferred compensation savings plan and certain contract administration. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal controls. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Based on our evaluation, our management concluded that, as of March 31, 2004, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective due to the existence of one material weakness. We may experience additional material weaknesses in the future. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. We May Experience Production Gaps Or Delays In The Transition To Our Next Generation LDW System And Have Exhausted Component Supplies For Our Legacy AutoVue LDW Systems, Which Could Materially And Adversely Impact Our Sales And Financial Results And The Ultimate Acceptance Of AutoVue. We are in the process of transitioning to production of a next generation LDW system and experienced a significant decline in orders from our largest AutoVue OEM customer for the heavy truck market as a result of this transition. Although we have qualified our next generation system with our largest customer, we must continue to qualify the new system with our other customers. We cannot assure you that such qualifications will be successful or that we will not experience a decline in demand as a result of this transition. As a result, we could experience a gap or delay in production as we transition to this next generation system. In some cases, such gaps or delays may be driven by customer transition issues. In addition, we have run out of certain components used in the manufacture of our legacy AutoVue LDW system for the heavy truck market. As such, a timely 8 completion of these qualifications and the successful transition will be critical to our future success. Additionally, it is possible that we could experience unforeseen quality control issues as we ramp up to full production of our next generation LDW system. Should any such delay or disruption occur in transitioning to production of our next generation LDW system, our future sales will likely be materially and adversely affected. We Depend On Government Contracts And Subcontracts, And Because Many Of Our Government Contracts Are Fixed Price Contracts, Higher Than Anticipated Costs Will Reduce Our Profit And Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results. A significant portion of our sales were derived from contracts with governmental agencies, either as a general contractor, subcontractor or supplier. Government contracts represented approximately 38.3%, 37.4% and 48.2% of our total net sales and contract revenues for the years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We anticipate that revenue from government contracts will continue to increase in the near future. Government business is, in general, subject to special risks and challenges, including: · long purchase cycles or approval processes; · competitive bidding and qualification requirements; · the impact of international conflicts; · performance bond requirements; · changes in government policies and political agendas; · delays in funding, including the delays in the allocation of funds to state and local agencies from the U.S. transportation bill; · other government budgetary constraints and cut-backs; and · milestone requirements and liquidated damage provisions for failure to meet contract milestones In addition, a large number of our government contracts are fixed price contracts. As a result, we may not be able to recover any cost overruns we may incur. These fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate these costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. In the event our costs on these projects exceed the fixed contractual amount, we will be required to bear the excess costs. Such additional costs would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, certain of our government contracts are subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in our net sales in any given quarter. Our inability to address any of the foregoing concerns or the loss or renegotiation of any material government contract could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Depend Upon Valeo To Market Our AutoVue Technologies For The OEM Passenger Car Market. We have granted Valeo the exclusive right to sell and manufacture our AutoVue LDW system to the worldwide passenger car market in exchange for royalty payments for each AutoVue unit sold. As such, the future success and broad market acceptance of our AutoVue technologies in the passenger car market will depend upon Valeo’s ability to manufacture, market and sell our technologies, and to convince more OEM passenger car manufacturers to adopt our technologies. If Valeo does not devote considerable resources and aggressively pursue opportunities, our expansion into the passenger car market could be adversely affected. We May Be Unable To Attract And Retain Key Personnel, Which Could Seriously Harm Our Business. Due to the specialized nature of our business, we are highly dependent on the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, engineering and technical personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or key members of management could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success will also depend in large part upon our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified engineering and other highly skilled technical personnel. In particular, the future success of our Transportation Systems business will depend on our ability to hire additional qualified engineers and planners. Competition for qualified employees, particularly development engineers, is intense. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain sufficient numbers of such highly skilled employees. Our inability to attract and retain additional key employees or the loss of one or more of our current key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Have Experienced Growth In Recent Periods. If We Fail To Manage Our Growth Effectively, We May Be Unable To Execute Our Business Plan And May Experience Future Weaknesses In Our Internal Controls. We have expanded our overall business, particularly in our Vantage and AutoVue product lines. In order to achieve our business 9 objectives, we will need to continue to expand our business and add additional qualified personnel. Such expansion has placed and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. To accommodate this growth, we launched a new ERP system in April 2006. Accordingly, we may experience problems commonly experienced by other companies in connection with such implementations, including but not limited to, potential bugs in the system, component or supply delays, training requirements and other integration challenges and delays. Any difficulties we might experience in connection with our new ERP system could have a material adverse effect on our financial reporting system and internal controls. If We Are Unable To Develop And Introduce New Products And Product Enhancements Successfully And In A Cost-Effective And Timely Manner, Or Are Unable To Achieve Market Acceptance Of Our New Products, Our Operating Results Would Be Adversely Affected. We believe our revenue growth and future operating results will depend on our ability to complete development of new products and enhancements, introduce these products in a timely, cost-effective manner, achieve broad market acceptance of these products and enhancements, and reduce our product costs. We cannot guarantee the success of these products and we may not be able to introduce any new products or any enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, the introduction of any new products could adversely affect the sales of certain of our existing products. We believe that we must continue to make substantial investments to support ongoing research and development in order to remain competitive. We need to continue to develop and introduce new products that incorporate the latest technological advancements in outdoor image processing hardware, software and camera technologies in response to evolving customer requirements. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or changing customer requirements. We cannot assure you that any such investments in research and development will lead to any corresponding increase in revenue. Market acceptance of our new products depends upon many factors, including our ability to accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards, our ability to resolve technical challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner and achieve manufacturing efficiencies, the perceived advantages of our new products over traditional products and the marketing capabilities of our independent distributors and strategic partners, including Valeo’s ability to expand sales of AutoVue in the passenger car market. The success of our AutoVue system will also depend in part on the success of the automotive vehicles that incorporate our technology, as well as the success of optional equipment that OEMs bundle with our technologies. Certain of the components used in our Vantage and AutoVue products may need to be re-engineered in the next 18 months as the industry is moving towards a standard of using lead-free components. We cannot assure you as to the timing of the adoption of this new standard or our ability to successfully redesign our products to incorporate compliant components. In addition, if the standard is adopted earlier than anticipated we may experience a shortage of Vantage and AutoVue products as a result of potential scarcity of lead-free components. Our business and results of operations could also be seriously harmed by any significant delays in our new product development. Certain of our new products could contain undetected design faults and software errors or “bugs” when first released by us, despite our testing. We may not discover these faults or errors until after a product has been installed and used by our customers. Any faults or errors in our existing products or in any new products may cause delays in product introduction and shipments, require design modifications or harm customer relationships, any of which could adversely affect our business and competitive position. The Markets In Which We Operate Are Highly Competitive And Have Many More Established Competitors, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Sales Or The Market Acceptance Of Our Products. We compete with numerous other companies in our target markets including, but not limited to, large, multinational corporations, which include tier one automotive suppliers, and many smaller regional engineering firms. We expect such competition to increase due to technological advancements, industry consolidations and reduced barriers to entry. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience more competition in our Vantage business in Fiscal 2007 as the department of transportation in one of our largest sales territories is moving to a multisource contracting environment from one in which Iteris is the preferred supplier. In addition, one of the other developers of LDW systems was recently acquired by a larger company. While this developer has not been a material competitor to date, we may experience more competition from this provider as a result of its greater access to resources from its acquirer, and additional competitors may enter this market in the future. 10 Many of our competitors have far greater name recognition and greater financial, technological, marketing and customer service resources than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products than we can. Recent consolidations of end users, distributors and manufacturers in our target markets have exacerbated this problem. As a result of the foregoing factors, we may not be able to compete effectively in our target markets and competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An Economic Slowdown And Related Uncertainties Could Adversely Impact The Demand For Our Products. Concerns about inflation, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and recent international conflicts and terrorist and military actions have resulted in a downturn in worldwide economic conditions, particularly in the United States. These unfavorable economic conditions may have a negative impact on customer orders, cancellations and rescheduling of backlog. In addition, recent political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts can be expected to put further pressure on economic conditions in the U.S. and worldwide. These political, social and economic conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions continue or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. We May Engage In Acquisitions Of Companies Or Technologies That May Require Us To Undertake Significant Capital Infusions And Could Result In Disruptions Of Our Business And Diversion Of Resources And Management Attention. We have historically acquired, and may in the future acquire, complementary businesses, products and technologies. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions and, in general, acquisitions also involve a number of special risks, including: · potential disruption of our ongoing business and the diversion of our resources and management’s attention; · the failure to retain or integrate key acquired personnel; · the challenge of assimilating diverse business cultures, and the difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and information system of the acquired companies; · increased costs to improve managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems and to eliminate duplicative services; · the incurrence of unforeseen obligations or liabilities; · potential impairment of relationships with employees or customers as a result of changes in management; and · increased interest expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Our competitors are also soliciting potential acquisition candidates, which could both increase the price of any acquisition targets and decrease the number of attractive companies available for acquisition. Acquisitions may also materially and adversely affect our operating results due to large write-offs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges or intangible asset amortization, or other adverse tax or accounting consequences. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any additional acquisitions, successfully integrate any acquisitions or realize the benefits anticipated from any acquisition. Our Quarterly Operating Results Fluctuate As A Result Of Many Factors. Therefore, We May Fail To Meet Or Exceed The Expectations Of Securities Analysts And Investors, Which Could Cause Our Stock Price To Decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. Factors that could affect our revenues include, among others, the following: · our ability to raise additional capital; · our ability to control costs; · international conflicts and acts of terrorism; · our ability to develop, introduce, patent, market and gain market acceptance of new products, applications and product enhancements in a timely manner, or at all; 11 · market acceptance of the products incorporating our technologies and products; · the size, timing, rescheduling or cancellation of significant customer orders; · the introduction of new products by competitors; · the availability and cost of components used in the manufacture of our products; · changes in our pricing policies and the pricing policies of our suppliers and competitors, pricing concessions on volume sales, as well as increased price competition in general; · the long lead times associated with government contracts or required by vehicle manufacturers; · delays in the allocation of funds to state and local agencies from the U.S. government transportation bill; · our success in expanding and implementing our sales and marketing programs; · the effects of technological changes in our target markets; · our relatively small level of backlog at any given time; · seasonality due to winter weather conditions; · the mix of our sales; · deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, applications or product enhancements; · risks and uncertainties associated with our international business; · currency fluctuations and our ability to get currency out of certain foreign countries; and · general economic and political conditions. Due to all of the factors listed above as well as other unforeseen factors, our future operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As a result of these quarterly variations, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. If We Do Not Keep Pace With Rapid Technological Changes And Evolving Industry Standards, We Will Not Be Able To Remain Competitive And There Will Be No Demand For Our Products. Our markets are in general characterized by the following factors: · rapid technological advances; · downward price pressure in the marketplace as technologies mature; · changes in customer requirements; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and · evolving industry standards and changes in the regulatory environment. Our future success will depend upon our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and industry standards, and to effectively develop, introduce, market and gain broad acceptance of new products and product enhancements incorporating the latest technological advancements. In particular, our LDW system is incorporated into automobiles and trucks that face significant technological changes in each model year and among different vehicle models. Accordingly, we must adapt our technology from time to time to function with such changes. We May Not Be Able To Adequately Protect Or Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights, Which Could Harm Our Competitive Position. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce the proprietary aspects of our technology, competitors could be able to access our proprietary technology and our business, financial condition and results 12 of operations will likely be seriously harmed. We currently attempt to protect our technology through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. Despite our efforts, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technologies or systems. Our competitors may also be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights adequately in the United States or abroad. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. An adverse outcome in litigation or any similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license disputed rights from others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products or technologies. We may not be able to obtain any licenses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may have to indemnify certain customers or strategic partners if it is determined that we have infringed upon or misappropriated another party’s intellectual property. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, including legal fees and expenses, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Trading Price Of Our Common Stock Is Highly Volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. Since January 2000, our Class A common stock (now known as our common stock) has traded at prices as low as $0.45 per share and as high as $29.44 per share. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: · quarterly variations in operating results; · our ability to control costs, improve cash flow and sustain profitability; · our ability to raise additional capital; · shortages announced by suppliers; · announcements of technological innovations or new products or applications by our competitors, customers or us; · transitions to new products or product enhancements; · acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies; · the impact of any litigation; · changes in investor perceptions; · government funding, political agendas and other budgetary issues; · changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts; and · international conflicts, political unrest and acts of terrorism. The stock market in general has recently experienced volatility, which has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of a class action lawsuit, it could result in substantial losses and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters. 13 Our International Business Operations May Be Threatened By Many Factors That Are Outside Of Our Control. We currently market our AutoVue and Vantage products internationally and we anticipate that our international operations will expand in the near future. International business operations are subject to various inherent risks including, among others: · currency fluctuations and restrictions; · political, social and economic instability; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers or restrictions; · the burdens of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and more restrictive labor laws and obligations; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles; · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate. All of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the relative value of the dollar could make our products more expensive and potentially less price competitive in international markets. We do not engage in any transactions as a hedge against risks of loss due to foreign currency fluctuations. Any of the factors mentioned above may adversely affect our future international sales and, consequently, affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, as we increase our international sales, our total revenues may also be affected to a greater extent by seasonal fluctuations resulting from lower sales that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world. We Could Experience Negative Financial Impacts Arising From Developments In Contingencies Created Under Our Previous Structure Or By Former Subsidiaries. Although we divested ourselves of all business units, with the exception of our Iteris business, from time to time we could experience unforeseen developments in contingencies related to our former subsidiaries. In particular, we are presently party to a lawsuit brought against Mariner Networks, Inc., one of our former subsidiaries (refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). The outcome of this lawsuit is presently uncertain. Although we are not aware of any other material contingencies, it is possible that other matters could be brought against us in connection with activities related to former subsidiaries and that such matters could materially and adversely affect our financial results and cash flows. Some Of Our Directors, Officers And Their Affiliates Can Control The Outcome Of Matters That Require The Approval Of Our Stockholders, And Accordingly We Will Not Be Able To Engage In Certain Transactions Without Their Approval. As of March 31, 2006, our officers and directors owned approximately 16% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (and approximately 25% of our common stock when including options, warrants and other convertible securities held by them which are currently exercisable or convertible or will become exercisable or convertible within 60 days after March 31, 2006). As a result of their stock ownership, our management will be able to significantly influence the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions, regardless of how our other stockholders may vote. This concentration of voting control may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our management or change in control and may adversely affect the voting or other rights of other holders of common stock. Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions May Affect The Price Of Our Common Stock And Discourage A Third Party From Acquiring Us. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our stockholder rights plan could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though an acquisition might be beneficial to our stockholders. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. Our future issuance of preferred stock could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. In addition, in March 1998, we adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend of preferred stock purchase rights to our stockholders. We amended this plan in May 2004. In the event a third party acquires more than 15% of the outstanding voting control of our company or 15% of our outstanding common stock, the holders of these rights will be able to purchase the junior participating preferred stock at a substantial discount off of the then current market price. The exercise of these rights and purchase of a significant amount of stock at below market prices could cause substantial dilution to a particular acquirer and discourage the acquirer from pursuing our company. The mere existence of a stockholder rights plan often delays or makes a merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 