Item 1A. Risk Factors. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement could adversely affect our business. We believe that our products and technology do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others or upon intellectual property rights that may be granted in the future pursuant to pending applications. We occasionally receive communications from third parties alleging patent infringement, and there is always the chance that third parties may assert infringement claims against us. We are entering technology markets where we have not participated before, where there are entrenched incumbents, and where our entrance into the market is disruptive and may cause such incumbents to assert infringement claims in order to deter our competition. Any such claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, result in temporary restraining orders or injunctions concerning the sale of products in certain countries, require the redesign of products to design around asserted claims, require us to indemnify customers, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Any such claims, with or without merit, may cause customers to be deterred from purchasing products from us. We have obtained contractual commitments from our suppliers concerning the defense and indemnification of claims relating to certain technology provided by such suppliers, but we cannot be certain that such defense and indemnification obligations will be promptly honored by such suppliers. Furthermore, we have in the past obtained, and may be required in the future to obtain, licenses of technology owned by other parties. We cannot be certain that the necessary licenses will be available or that they can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We have participated in technology standardization activities which provide for licenses being available on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, but we cannot be certain that such licenses will actually and promptly be made available to us. If we were to fail to obtain such royalty or licensing agreements in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Broadcom Corporation has filed a consolidated patent infringement suit against us, which currently alleges that we are infringing six Broadcom patents covering certain data and storage networking technologies. Ongoing lawsuits, such as the action brought by Broadcom, present inherent risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Such potential risks include continuing expenses of litigation, risk of loss of patent rights and/or monetary damages, risk of injunction against the sale of products incorporating the technology in question, counterclaims, attorneys’ fees, and diversion of management’s attention from other business matters. See “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The current economic downturn has resulted in a reduction in information technology spending. The demand for our network storage products has been driven by the demand for high performance storage networking products and solutions that support enterprise computing applications, including on-line transaction processing, data mining, data warehousing, multimedia, and Internet applications. The current economic downturn and related disruptions in world credit and equity markets, as well as the related failures of several large financial institutions, have resulted in a global downturn in spending on information technology. If the downturn in the economy results in a significant downturn in the demand for such products, solutions, and applications, it will adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in the near term and possibly beyond. The adverse effects of any sustained downturn in information technology spending on our operating results may be exacerbated by our research and development investments, strategic investments and merger and acquisition activity, as well as customer service and support, which are expected to continue despite any such downturn. Our business is highly competitive. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by rapid technological advances, price erosion, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. We expect that our markets will continue to attract new competition. Our current and potential competition consists of major domestic and international companies, some of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, 12 and distribution resources than we have. Additional companies, including but not limited to our suppliers, strategic partners, Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) customers, and emerging companies, may enter the markets in which we compete and new or stronger competitors may emerge as a result of consolidation in the marketplace. Additionally, our existing competitors continue to introduce products with improved price/performance characteristics, and we may have to do the same to remain competitive. Furthermore, competitors may introduce new products to the market before we do, and thus obtain a first to market advantage over us. Increased competition could result in increased price competition, reduced revenues, lower profit margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A significant portion of our business depends upon the continued growth of the networking market. The size of our potential market is largely dependent on the overall demand for networking products and in particular upon the broadening acceptance of our converged network technologies. We believe that our investment in multi-protocol solutions that address the high performance needs of the converged networking market provides the greatest opportunity for our future revenue growth and profitability. However, the market for converged networking products may not gain broader acceptance and customers may choose alternative technologies that we are not investing in, and/or products supplied by other companies. Interest continues for other storage networking technologies such as Internet Small Computer Systems Interface (iSCSI), which may satisfy some Input/Output (I/O) connectivity requirements through standard Ethernet adapters and software at little to no incremental cost to end users. These software only iSCSI solutions compete with our Host Server Products, particularly in the low end of the market. We have also launched Converged Network Adapters (CNAs) using Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE) or iSCSI protocols which may be used by the same customers impacting our Storage Area Networking revenues more than we anticipate. Furthermore, since our products are sold as parts of integrated systems, demand for our products is driven by the demand for these integrated systems, including other companies’ complementary products. A lack of demand for the integrated systems or a lack of complementary products required for these integrated systems to be deployed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If the converged networking market does not grow, grows more slowly than we anticipate, declines, attracts more competitors than we expect as discussed above, or if our products do not achieve continued market acceptance, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from sales to a limited number of customers, none of which are subject to exclusive or long-term contracts. We rely almost exclusively on OEMs and sales through distribution channels for our revenue. For the fiscal year ended July 3, 2011, we derived approximately 87% of our net revenues from sales to OEM customers and approximately 13% from sales through distribution. Furthermore, as some of our sales through distribution channels consist of OEM products, OEM customers effectively generated approximately 92% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2011. Moreover, direct and indirect sales to our top five customers (including customer-specific models purchased or marketed indirectly through distributors, resellers and other third parties) accounted for approximately 79% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2011. If we are unable to retain our current OEM and distributor customers, recruit additional or replacement customers, or timely collect amounts due from our customers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Although we continue to expand our base of customers, we believe our revenues in the future will still be derived from a limited number of customers. As a result, to the extent that sales to any of our significant customers do not increase in accordance with our expectations or are reduced or delayed, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As is common in the technology industry, our agreements with OEMs and distributors are typically non-exclusive, have no volume commitments, and often may be terminated by either party without cause. It is increasingly commonplace for our OEM and distributor customers to utilize or carry competing product lines. If we were to lose business from one or more significant OEM or distributor customers to a competitor, our 13 business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our OEMs may elect to change their business practices in ways that affect the timing of our revenues, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our operating results are difficult to forecast resulting in significant fluctuations quarter to quarter. Our revenues and results of operations have varied on a quarterly basis in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on such comparisons as indications of our future performance. We may be unable to maintain our current levels of growth or profitability in the future. Our revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast and could be adversely affected in any given quarter by many factors, including, but not limited to: • Changes in the size, mix, timing and terms of OEM and/or other customer orders; • Changes in the sales and deployment cycles for our products and/or desired inventory levels for our products; • Acquisitions or strategic investments by our customers, competitors or us; • Timing and market acceptance of new or enhanced product introductions by us, our OEM customers and/or competitors; • Market share losses or difficulty in gaining incremental market share; • Fluctuations in product development, procurement, resource utilization and other operating expenses; • Anticipated efficiencies resulting from increased revenues may be less than expected or not achieved at all; • Difficulties controlling unanticipated costs, including operating expenses, as revenues increase; • Reduced demand from our customers if there is a shortage of, or difficulties in acquiring, components or other products, such as disk drives, switches, and optical modules, used in conjunction with our products in the deployment of systems; • Inability of our electronics manufacturing service providers or suppliers to produce and distribute our products in a timely fashion; • Difficulties with updates, changes or additions to our information technology systems; • Breaches of our network security, including viruses; • Changes in general social and economic conditions, including but not limited to natural disasters, terrorism, public health crises, slower than expected market growth, reduced economic activity, delayed economic recovery, loss of consumer confidence, increased energy costs, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns, concerns about inflation or deflation, recession, and reduced business profits and capital spending, with resulting changes in customer technology budgeting and spending; and • Seasonality. We regularly generate a large percentage of our revenues in the last month of a quarter. Because we attempt to ship products quickly after we receive orders, we may not always have a significant backlog of unfilled orders at the start of each quarter and we may be required to book a substantial portion of our orders during the quarter in which these orders ship. Our major customers generally have no obligation to purchase forecasted amounts and may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice and without penalty. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Because our expense levels are partially based on our expectations of future sales, our expenses may be disproportionately large relative to our revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Any shortfall in sales relative to our quarterly 14 expectations or any delay of customer orders would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Order deferrals and cancellations by our customers, declining average sales prices, changes in the mix of products sold, shortages of materials, delays in the introduction of new products and longer than anticipated sales cycles for our products have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations in the past. Despite these factors, we, along with our EMS providers, maintain significant finished goods, work-in-progress and raw materials inventory to meet estimated order forecasts. If our customers purchase less than their forecasted orders or cancel or delay existing purchase orders, there will be higher levels of inventory that face a greater risk of obsolescence. If our customers choose to purchase products in excess of the forecasted amounts or in a different product mix, there might be inadequate inventory or manufacturing capacity to fill their orders. As a result of these and other unexpected factors or developments, future operating results may be, from time to time, below the expectations of investors or market analysts, which would have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, and the frequent introduction of new products and enhancements. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to enhance our existing products and to introduce new products on a timely basis to meet changes in customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Currently, new and proposed technologies such as 16 Gb/s Fibre Channel solutions; Cloud Computing; Enterprise Flash Drives (EFDs) or Solid State Drives (SSDs); FCoE; Enhanced Ethernet; 10GbE, 40GbE, and 100GbE solutions; low latency Ethernet solutions; Data Center Ethernet; Infiniband; iSCSI; PCI-X 3.0; PCI Express 3.0; PCI Express Advanced Switching; SATA; SAS; and Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) over Converged Ethernet (RoCE); are in development by many companies and their ultimate acceptance and deployment in the market is uncertain. We are developing some, but not all of these technologies, and we cannot be sure that the technologies we chose to develop will achieve market acceptance, or that technologies that we chose not to develop will be available to purchase or license from third parties or will be immaterial to our business. Furthermore, if our products are not available in time for the qualification cycle at an OEM, we may be forced to wait for the next qualification cycle, which is typically three years if at all. In addition, new products and enhancements developed by us may not be backwards compatible to existing equipment already installed in the market. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop new products, enhance or sell existing products, or consume raw materials in a timely and cost effective manner in response to technological and market changes, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful in our expansion into new segments of the storage and server technology market, and the costs associated with our expansion may be greater than anticipated To remain a significant supplier of networking technologies, we will need to continue to expand the range of products and solutions offered to our OEM customers. Expansion into other areas of the storage and server technology market, whether by acquisition or through internal growth, and the resulting increases in expenditures to support these new areas may be greater than anticipated. If we fail to successfully expand into new areas of the storage and server technology market with products that we do not currently offer, and effectively address these new market opportunities, we may lose market share and revenue opportunities to our competitors. Any such loss of opportunities or any failure by us to effectively manage the costs associated with expanding into new markets may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Further, although most of our revenues have historically been derived from products based on Fibre Channel technology, we expect to continue to grow our business of offering converged networking solutions following our recent acquisition of ServerEngines. We believe that our Fibre Channel products and our converged networking solutions will, at least initially, have similar customers and other marketing requirements that should produce certain synergies and cost savings as we expand our converged network solutions business. 15 However, if the expansion of our converged networking solutions business does not produce the synergies and cost savings with our core Fibre Channel business that we anticipate, our marketing and other business expenses relating to our converged network solutions business could be greater than anticipated and our financial condition could be adversely affected. The timing of migration by our customers toward emerging technologies and newer product platforms varies. Any failure of our OEM customers to keep up with rapid technological change and to successfully market and sell systems that incorporate new technologies could adversely affect our business. Our revenues depend significantly upon the ability and willingness of our OEM customers to commit significant resources to develop, promote, and deliver products that incorporate our technology. In addition, if our customers’ products are not commercially successful, it would have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As our customers migrate from one platform to the enhanced price/performance of the next platform, we may experience reduced revenue, gross profit, or gross margin levels associated with lower average selling prices or higher relative product costs associated with improved performance. While we regularly compare forecasted demand for our products against inventory on hand and open purchase commitments, to the extent that customers migrate more quickly than anticipated, the corresponding reduction in demand for older product platforms may result in excess or obsolete inventory and related charges which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers may elect to use lower-end HBAs in higher-end environments or applications. We supply two families of HBAs that target separate high-end, midrange and small to medium sized business user (SMB) markets. Historically, the majority of our storage networking revenues has come from our high-end server and storage solutions. In the future, increased revenues are expected to come from dual channel adapters and midrange server and storage solutions, which have lower average selling prices per port. If customers elect to utilize midrange HBAs in higher-end environments or applications, or migrate to dual channel adapters faster than we anticipate, our business and financial condition could be negatively affected. Advancement of storage device capacity technology may not allow for additional revenue growth. Storage device density continues to improve rapidly and at some point in the future, the industry may experience a period where the advancement in technology may increase storage device capacity to a level that may equal or exceed the need for digital data storage requirements. This would result in a situation where the number of units of storage devices required in the marketplace may level out or even decrease. Our growth in revenue depends on growth in unit shipments to offset declining average selling prices. To the extent that growth in storage device unit demand slows or decreases, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our average unit selling prices may decrease at a faster rate than we are able to realize cost reductions in our products. In the past, we have experienced downward pressure on the average unit selling prices of our products, and we expect this trend to continue. Furthermore, we may provide pricing discounts to customers based upon volume purchase criteria, and achievement of such discounts may reduce our average unit selling prices. To the extent that growth in unit demand fails to offset decreases in average unit selling prices, our revenues and financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Although we have historically achieved offsetting cost reductions, to the extent that average unit selling prices of our products decrease without a corresponding decrease in the costs of such products, our gross margins and financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Our gross margins could also be adversely affected by a shift in the mix of product sales to lower gross margin products. Furthermore, as our products are manufactured internationally, cost reductions would be more difficult to achieve if the value of the U.S. dollar continues to deteriorate. Moreover, if the manufactured cost of our products were to increase due to inflation or other factors and we cannot pass along 16 the increase in our costs to our customers, our gross margins and financial performance could be materially adversely affected. We may experience delays in our product development cycle and the introduction of new products. We have experienced delays in product development in the past and may experience similar delays in the future. Prior delays have resulted from numerous factors, which may include, but are not limited to: • Difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary employees and independent contractors; • Difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and other resource limitations; • Unanticipated engineering or manufacturing complexity, including from third party suppliers of intellectual property such as foundries of our ASICs; • Undetected errors or failures in our products; • Changing OEM product specifications; • Delays in the acceptance or shipment of products by OEM customers; and • Changing market or competitive product requirements. Given the short product life cycles in the markets for our products and the relatively long product development cycles, any delay or unanticipated difficulty associated with new product introductions or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Changes in our business model to separately charge for software may not result in expected revenue increases. Emulex recently began charging separate license fees for software associated with our product offerings. The success of this strategy to generate software revenues depends on a number of factors, including: • Our inability to develop and market these new software products successfully; • The software products we develop may not be well received by customers; • Our software products may have quality problems or other defects in the early stages that were not anticipated in the design of those products; and • Software products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. While revenues recognized through fiscal 2011 have not been significant, any failure to successfully implement this new strategy could have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. Our joint development activities may result in products that are not commercially successful or that are not available in a timely fashion. We have engaged in joint development projects with customers, companies we have investments in and receivables from, and third parties in the past, and we expect to continue doing so in the future. Currently, we have investments in and commitments to various third parties related to these joint development efforts. Joint development can magnify several risks for us, including the loss of control over development of aspects of the jointly developed products and over the timing of product availability. Accordingly, we face increased risk that joint development activities will result in products that are not commercially successful or that are not available in a timely fashion. Any failure to timely develop commercially successful products through our joint development activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 17 We are dependent on sole source and limited source third party suppliers and electronics manufacturing service providers for our products. We rely on third party suppliers for components and the manufacture of our products. A number of these components and products are only available from a single or limited number of suppliers. We also purchase certain components and products from single or limited suppliers and EMS providers to drive volume discounts. As a result, we have experienced delays or difficulty in securing components and finished goods in the past. Delays or difficulty in securing components or finished goods at reasonable cost may be caused by numerous factors including, but not limited to: • Discontinued production by a supplier; • Required long-term purchase commitments; • Undetected errors, failures or production quality issues, including projected failures that may constitute epidemic failure rates specified in agreements with our customers or that may require us to make concessions or accommodations for continuing customer relationships; • Timeliness of product delivery; • Sole sourcing and components made by a small number of suppliers, including the inability to obtain components and finished goods at reasonable cost from such sources and suppliers; • Financial stability and viability of our suppliers and electronics manufacturing service (EMS) providers; • Changes in business strategies of our suppliers and EMS providers; • Increases in manufacturing costs due to lower volumes or more complex manufacturing process than anticipated; • Disruption in shipping channels; • Natural disasters; • Inability or unwillingness of our suppliers or EMS providers to continue their business with us; • Environmental, tax or legislative changes in the location where our products are produced or delivered; • Difficulties associated with international operations; and • Market shortages. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain our current suppliers or change to alternative suppliers. An interruption in supply, the cost of shifting to a new supplier or EMS providers, disputes with suppliers or EMS providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We utilize third-party EMS providers located outside the United States to manufacture and test the majority of our products. These EMS providers also procure and manage most of the components used in our board or box level products. As a result of our reliance on third-party EMS providers, we may not be able to directly control product delivery schedules and the quality of our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If our EMS providers are unable to respond in a timely fashion to changes in customer demand, we may be unable to produce enough products to respond to sudden increases in demand, resulting in lost revenues. Alternatively, in the case of order cancellations or decreases in demand, we may be liable for excess or obsolete inventory or cancellation charges resulting from contractual purchase commitments that we have with our EMS providers. We regularly provide rolling forecasts of our requirements to our EMS providers for planning purposes, pursuant to our agreements, a portion of which is binding upon us. Additionally, we are committed to accept delivery on the forecasted terms for a portion of the rolling forecast. Cancellations of orders or changes to the forecasts provided to any of our EMS providers may result in cancellation costs payable by us. In the past, we have been required to take delivery of materials from our EMS providers that were in excess of our requirements, 18 and we have previously recognized charges and expenses related to such excess material. We expect that we will continue to incur such costs in the future. We also purchase ASIC components from sole source suppliers, including LSI Corporation, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., Intel Corporation, Renesas Electronics America Inc., and Toshiba Corporation, who in turn rely on a limited number of their suppliers to manufacture ASICs, all of which create risks in assuring such component availability. The inability of the Company or our EMS providers to obtain these ASIC components in sufficient quantities or in the desired time periods could delay the production and delivery of our products which, in turn, could result in lost revenue due to customer cancellations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Unsolicited takeover proposals may be disruptive to our business. On April 21, 2009, we received an unsolicited takeover proposal from Broadcom Corporation (Broadcom) to acquire all of our outstanding shares of common stock. While Broadcom has allowed its tender offer to expire, there can be no assurance that Broadcom or another third party will not make an unsolicited takeover proposal in the future. The review and consideration of any takeover proposal may be a significant distraction for our management and employees and could require the expenditure of significant time and resources by us. Moreover, any unsolicited takeover proposal may create uncertainty for our employees and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees and to hire new talent. Any such takeover proposal may also create uncertainty for our customers, suppliers and other business partners, which may cause them to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us. The uncertainty arising from unsolicited takeover proposals and any related costly litigation may disrupt our business, which could result in an adverse effect on our operating results. Management and employee distraction related to any such takeover proposal also may adversely impact our ability to optimally conduct our business and pursue our strategic objectives. We have entered into Key Employee Retention Agreements with four of our current executive officers, and adopted a Change in Control Retention Plan, in which currently an additional 27 key employees participate. The participants of these retention arrangements may be entitled to severance payments and benefits, based on a period of between twelve months and two years, upon a termination of their employment by us without cause or by them for good reason in connection with a change of control of our company (each as defined in the applicable agreement or plan). These retention arrangements may not be adequate to allow us to retain critical employees during a time when a change in control is being proposed or is imminent. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our recent acquisition of ServerEngines Corporation (ServerEngines) or of future acquisitions and strategic investments. Our future performance will depend in part on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions and strategic investments, and whether we can successfully integrate and operate these businesses with our existing operations in an effective and efficient manner. Integrating our operations with the ServerEngines business is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and involves a number of risks and uncertainties. In addition, in order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, other strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties relating to the ServerEngines acquisition and future acquisitions include, but are not limited to: • The difficulty in integrating any newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; • The challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from the ServerEngines acquisition and any future acquisitions; • The risk of diverting our resources and the attention of our senior management from the operations of our business; 19 • Additional demands on management related to the increase in the size and scope of our company following the acquisition; • The risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; • Difficulties in combining corporate cultures; • Difficulties in the assimilation and retention of key employees; • Difficulties in maintaining relationships with present and potential customers, distributors and suppliers of the acquired business; • Costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities of ServerEngines or any future acquired business; • Difficulties in converting the acquired business information systems to our systems; • Delays, difficulties or unexpected costs in the integration, assimilation, implementation or modification of platforms, systems, functions, technologies and infrastructure to support the combined business, as well as maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal accounting controls), procedures and policies; • The risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures incurred to acquire such businesses or the capital expenditures needed to develop such businesses; • The risks of entering markets in which we have less experience; • Unknown defects of an acquired company’s products or assets that may not be identified due to the inherent limitations involved in the due diligence process of an acquisition; and • The risks of potential disputes concerning indemnities and other obligations that could result in substantial costs. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and we cannot be certain that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We do not know whether we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future or that any strategic investments we make will meet our financial or other investment objectives. Any failure to do so could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to integrate any future acquisition successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, growth, operational efficiencies and other benefits that we expect. We cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate any future acquisition with our business or achieve the desired benefits from the ServerEngines acquisition or any future acquisition within a reasonable period of time or at all. Furthermore, to complete future acquisitions we may need to issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could cause our earnings per share to decline. Our intellectual property protections may be inadequate. We believe that our continued success depends primarily on continuing innovation, marketing, and technical expertise, as well as the quality of product support and customer relations. At the same time, our success is partially dependent on the proprietary technology contained in our products. We currently rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in our products. We cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our proprietary rights, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior 20 technology, or that we can maintain such technology as trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured, or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or at all. Furthermore, we enter into various development projects and arrangements with other companies. In some cases, these arrangements allow for the sharing or use of our intellectual property. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We attempt to mitigate this risk by obtaining indemnification from others, where possible. Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License (GPL), which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of licenses customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. We may be unable to attract, motivate or retain key managerial and technical personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the performance and continued service of key managers, as well as engineers involved in the development of our storage networking technologies and technical support of our storage networking products and customers. Competition for such highly skilled employees in the communities in which we operate, as well as our industry, is intense, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in recruiting, training, and retaining such personnel. In addition, employees may leave us and subsequently compete against us, and there may be costs relating to their departure. Also, many of these key managerial and technical personnel receive stock options or unvested stock as part of our employee retention initiatives. The number of shares authorized under stock based plans may be insufficient and shareholders may not approve to increase the number of authorized shares. New regulations, volatility in the stock market, and other factors could diminish the value of our stock options or unvested stock, putting us at a competitive disadvantage and forcing us to use more cash compensation. If we are unable to attract new managerial and technical employees, or are unable to retain and motivate our current key managerial and technical employees, or are forced to use more cash compensation to retain or replace key personnel, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our international business activities subject us to increased business risks. For the fiscal year ended July 3, 2011, sales in the United States accounted for approximately 30% of our total net revenues, sales in Asia Pacific accounted for approximately 50% of our total net revenues, sales in Europe, Middle East, and Africa accounted for approximately 19% of our total revenue, and sales in the rest of the world accounted for approximately 1% of our total net revenues based on billed-to address. We expect that our sales will continue to increase outside of the United States as our customers are migrating towards using contract manufacturers located internationally, predominantly in Asia Pacific. However, because we sell to OEMs and distributors who ultimately resell our products to their customers, the geographic mix of our sales may not be reflective of the geographic mix of end-user demand or installations. All of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our products could become less competitive in international markets. In addition, an increasing amount of our expenses will be incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars and as a result, we will be required from time to time to convert currencies to meet our obligations. Additionally, our suppliers are increasingly located outside of the U.S., and a significant portion of our products is produced at our EMS providers’ production facilities in Thailand, Malaysia, and China. Furthermore, in connection with the reorganization of our international subsidiaries, we established a company in Ireland, and a significant portion of our sales and operations will now also occur in countries outside of the U.S. As a result, we are subject to 21 the risks inherent in international operations. Our international business activities could be affected, limited or disrupted by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • Imposition of or changes in governmental controls, taxes, tariffs, trade restrictions, and regulatory requirements to our current or future operations; • Import and export restrictions; • Loss of tax benefits or increases in tax expenses; • Taxation in multiple jurisdictions; • Longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • Changes in the value of local currencies relative to our functional currency; • Potential restrictions on transferring funds between countries and difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held outside of the U.S. in a tax-efficient manner; • Costs and risks of localizing products for international countries; • Fluctuations in freight costs and potential disruptions in the transportation infrastructure for our products and components; • Natural disasters; • Difficulty maintaining management oversight and control of remote locations; • The increased travel, infrastructure, accounting, and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • Political instability, war, or terrorism; and • General economic and social conditions within international countries. All of these factors could harm future sales of our products to international customers or production of our products outside of the United States, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our stock price is volatile, which has and may result in lawsuits against us and our officers and directors. The stock market in general and the stock prices in technology based companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. For example, during calendar year 2011 through July 3, 2011, the closing sales price of our common stock ranged from a low of $8.08 per share to a high of $12.76 per share. Factors that could have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include, but are not limited to, the following: • Quarterly variations in customer demand and operating results; • Announcements of new products by us or our competitors; • The gain or loss of significant customers or design wins; • Changes in analysts’ earnings estimates; • Changes in analyst recommendations, price targets, or other parameters that may not be related to earnings estimates; • Rumors or dissemination of false information; • Pricing pressures; • Short selling of our common stock; 22 • General conditions in the computer, storage, or communications markets; • Events affecting other companies that investors deem to be comparable to us; and • Offers to buy us or a competitor for a premium over recent trading price. In addition, Broadcom’s initiation and subsequent abandonment of its unsolicited takeover proposal to acquire all of the shares of our common stock has resulted in volatility in the price of our common stock. Any other takeover proposal by any third party to acquire the outstanding shares of our common stock may result in further volatility in the price of our common stock. If a takeover does not occur following announcement of a takeover proposal, for any reason, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, our stock price may decline as a result of the fact that we have been required to incur, and will continue to be required to incur, significant expenses related to the Broadcom unsolicited takeover proposal. In the past, companies, including us, that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. If we were to be the subject of similar litigation in the future or experience unfavorable outcomes in any of our pending litigation, as discussed in Note 11 in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere herein, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Such litigation would also divert management’s attention from other business matters. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Terrorist activities and resulting military and other actions could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism, military action, and heightened security measures in response to the threat of terrorism may cause significant disruption to commerce in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such events by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, delays in collecting cash, a general decrease in corporate spending on information technology, or our inability to effectively market, manufacture, or ship our products, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are unable to predict whether the threat of terrorism or the responses thereto will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities or responses will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our corporate offices, principal product development facilities, suppliers and customers are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our California and Washington facilities, including our corporate offices and principal product development facilities, are located near major earthquake faults. Any disruption in our business activities, personal injury, or damage to the facilities in excess of our currently insured amounts as a result of earthquakes or other such natural disasters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis, and earthquakes, such as the earthquake off the coast of Japan in March 2011 and the resulting tsunami, can disrupt manufacturing operations of our customers or the downstream suppliers that are located in Japan, resulting in lost revenue opportunities in the near term and/or long term. We currently do not carry earthquake insurance. However, we do carry various other lines of insurance that may or may not be adequate to protect our business. 23 Our certificate of incorporation and the related provisions under Delaware law could adversely affect the performance of our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, although we do not currently maintain a shareholders rights plan, we have maintained such a plan in the past and it is possible that we may adopt a shareholders rights plan in the future should general business, market and other conditions, opportunities and risks arise. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation, Delaware law, and any shareholders rights plan are generally intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our board of directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing shareholder value. However, such provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. We may be subject to theft or misuse of our electronic data, which could result in third-party claims and harm our business and results of operations. We may experience attempts by others that try to gain unauthorized access through the Internet to our information technology systems, such as when they masquerade as authorized users or surreptitiously introduce software. These attempts, which might be the result of industrial or other espionage, or actions by hackers seeking to harm us, our products, or our end users. We seek to detect and investigate these security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position and reduce marketplace acceptance of our products; the value of our investment in research and development and marketing could be reduced; and third parties might assert against us or our customers claims related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data, or system reliability. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our system of internal controls may be inadequate. We maintain a system of internal controls in order to ensure we are able to collect, process, summarize, and disclose the information required by the Securities and Exchange Commission within the time periods specified. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Due to these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Additionally, public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If the internal controls put in place by us are not adequate or fail to perform as anticipated, we may be required to restate our financial statements, receive an adverse audit opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, and/or take other actions that will divert significant financial and managerial resources, as well as be subject to fines and/or other government enforcement actions. Furthermore, the price of our stock could be adversely affected. Changes in laws, regulations, and financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. New laws, regulations and accounting standards, as well as changes to and varying interpretations of currently accepted accounting practices in the technology industry might adversely affect our reported financial results, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 24 The final determination of our income tax liability may be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals and our tax liabilities may be adversely affected by changes in applicable tax laws. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and international jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Additionally, our calculations of income taxes are based on our interpretations of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by numerous factors including: • Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; • Changes in domestic and foreign tax laws including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income and changes to foreign tax credit rules; • Expiration or lapses of federal and state research credits; • Unfavorable results from income tax audits; • Changes in transfer pricing regulations; • Changes in allocation of income and expenses related to cost sharing arrangements, including adjustments related to changes in the corporate structure, acquisitions or law changes; • Tax effects of increases in nondeductible compensation; • Changes in accounting rules or principles, including the potential adoption of international financial reporting standards (IFRS) and changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. We have adopted transfer-pricing procedures between our subsidiaries to regulate intercompany transfers. Our procedures call for the licensing of intellectual property, the provision of services, and the sale of products from one subsidiary to another at prices that we believe are equivalent to arm’s length negotiated pricing. We have established these procedures due to the fact that some of our assets, such as intellectual property, developed in the U.S., will be utilized among other affiliated companies. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully require changes to our transfer pricing practices, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. Any determination of income reallocation or modification of transfer pricing laws can result in an income tax assessment on the portion of income deemed to be derived from the U.S. or other taxing jurisdiction. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of our income tax liability will not be materially different than what is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other foreign, state and local tax authorities. We are currently under audit by the IRS for tax returns for fiscal years 2008 and 2009 and an amended return for fiscal 2007. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 25 We may need additional capital in the future and such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms. While we believe we have adequate working capital to meet our expected cash requirements for the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to, without limitation: • Take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, including more rapid international expansion or acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies; • Develop new products or services; • Repay outstanding indebtedness; and • Respond to unanticipated competitive pressures. Furthermore, because a significant portion of our investment portfolio consists of U.S. government and U.S. government sponsored entity securities, any default by the U.S. government in its obligations or any downgrade in the rating of U.S. government securities could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our overall liquidity and the liquidity of our customers. Any additional financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of business opportunities, develop new products or services, or otherwise respond to unanticipated competitive pressures. In any such case, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Global warming issues may cause us to alter the way we conduct our business. The general public is becoming more aware of global warming issues and as a result, governments around the world are beginning to focus on addressing this issue. This may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers, and our customers in how we conduct our business including the design, development, and manufacturing of our products. The cost of meeting these requirements may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 