Item 1A. Risk Factors. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement could adversely affect our business. On occasion, we receive communications from third parties alleging patent infringement, and there is always the chance that third parties may assert infringement claims against us. We are entering technology markets where we have not participated before, where there are entrenched incumbents, and where our entrance into the market is disruptive and may cause such incumbents to assert infringement claims in order to deter our 11 Table of Contents competition. Any such claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, result in temporary restraining orders or injunctions concerning the sale of products in certain countries, require the redesign of products to design around asserted claims, require us to indemnify customers, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Any such claims, with or without merit, may also cause customers to be deterred from purchasing products from us. We have obtained contractual commitments from our suppliers concerning the defense and indemnification of claims relating to certain technology provided by such suppliers, but we cannot be certain that such defense and indemnification obligations will be promptly honored by such suppliers. Furthermore, we have in the past obtained, and may be required in the future to obtain, licenses of technology owned by other parties. We cannot be certain that the necessary licenses will be available or that they can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We have participated in technology standardization activities which provide for licenses being available on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, but we cannot be certain that such licenses will actually and promptly be made available to us. If we were to fail to obtain such royalty or licensing agreements in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Broadcom Corporation (Broadcom) filed a consolidated patent infringement suit against us in fiscal 2010 and after a nearly three week trial that ended October 6, 2011, the jury reached a partial verdict involving two out of the six patents. The Court determined that one of the patents (U.S. Patent 7,058,150) [the ‘150 patent] had been infringed by us, and the jury rendered an advisory verdict to the Court that the ‘150 patent is not invalid, and awarded approximately $0.4 million in damages related to that patent. The jury reached a unanimous verdict of non-infringement on another patent relating to Emulex Fibre Channel switch products. A mistrial was declared on the remaining four patents for which no unanimous verdict was reached. Subsequent to the trial, the Court issued orders consistent with the advisory verdicts of invalidity, and also issued an order that one of the four remaining patents (U.S. Patent 7,471,691) [the’691 patent] had been infringed by us. On April 4, 2012, we filed a notice of appeal with respect to the ‘150 patent and the ‘691 patent infringement findings. On March 16, 2012, the Court issued a decision concerning injunctive relief for the ‘150 and the ‘691 patents. The decision provided, in part, for a sunset period of 18 months relating to the ‘150 patent, starting on October 12, 2011. The decision further provided for a sunset period of 18 months relating to the ‘691 patent, starting on December 16, 2011. The affected products for the ‘150 patent include the BE2, BE3, XE201, and SOC 442 ASICs, products containing them, and products not colorably different from them. The affected products for the ‘691 patent include the SOC 320, SOC 422, and SOC 442 ASICs, products containing them, and products not colorably different from them. The sunset period allows Emulex to sell the affected products to existing customers for specific customer devices, subject to limitations relating to when the products had been qualified and when certain firm orders had been placed. The decision further provided for Emulex to pay a royalty of nine percent on all sales of such products made during the sunset period. The decision also clarified that foreign sales (outside the U.S.) are beyond the scope of the suit. On April 3, 2012, the Court issued a Permanent Injunction which, with respect to both the ‘150 and ‘691 patents, further describe the prohibited activities, contain sunset provision terms including royalty rates and computations, limit the territory to allow sales of products that are manufactured outside the U.S. to customers located outside the U.S., permit design around efforts including modifications and design, development, and testing to eliminate infringement, and permit service and technical support for certain products. The Permanent Injunction refers to an Appendix to that Order specifically to identify permitted sunset sales, but no appendix was included when the Permanent Injunction was issued on April 3, 2012. On April 23, 2012, the Court stated that the Appendix is to be in final form by June 4, 2012. On May 30, 2012, the Court issued an order requiring the parties to submit the Appendix to the April 3, 2012 Permanent Injunction, and excluded from the sunset provision any customer who is a distributor and not an OEM, with distributor exceptions for needs of an end user affecting health of the public, public safety, and governmental agencies engaged in the national defense. The May 30, 2012 order provided that, not later than 90 days from the date of that order, Broadcom may move the Court for exclusion of certain device/customer product combinations from the Appendix. An Appendix was filed by Emulex and Broadcom with the Court under seal on June 10, 2012. 12 Table of Contents On April 12, 2012, the Court scheduled the start of the re-trial relating to the ‘194 family of patents that the previous jury could not reach a unanimous verdict on for April 2, 2013. The previous trial involved the following patents in the ‘194 family: U.S. Patent 6,424,194, Claim 1; U.S. Patent 7,486,124, Claim 5; and U.S. Patent 7,724,057, Claim 42, all of which pertain to circuitry used to deserialize signals. On July 3, 2012, the Company and Broadcom entered into a Patent License and Release Agreement (Settlement Agreement) pursuant to which Emulex and Broadcom agreed to settle and release certain claims related to the patent infringement litigation. The Settlement Agreement provided for certain amendments to the April 3, 2012 Permanent Injunction, and dismissals of certain allegations of the lawsuit, including portions of the scheduled re-trial and a limited worldwide license under the patents for specific fields of use. See Note 10 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements under the caption “Litigation” in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also see “We are dependent on sole source and limited source third party suppliers and EMS providers for our products” elsewhere in this Item 1A — Risk Factors. Specific risks related to the Broadcom infringement suit include: • Design changes (sometimes referred to as design-arounds) that may be used as alternatives for the two patents for which there have been findings of infringement, may present unforeseen technical problems for implementation or result in significant internal design costs, as well as third party non-recurring engineering costs; • Total costs related to our product redesign activities may exceed our current expectations. • The sunset periods may not be long enough to permit us, our suppliers, our OEM customers and end users to implement, test, qualify, and certify replacement products containing design changes that eliminate the patent infringement; • There may be technical resource and equipment availability shortages impeding our ASIC component suppliers from completing chip spins, and our OEM customers and end users from completing testing of redesigned products; • Our suppliers, on whom we rely for SerDes changes for chip spins, may require more time than what is available under the sunset periods to complete redesigns of clock and data recovery (CDR) in SerDes modules; • Our sales and support for products sold outside the United States may be made subject to the Permanent Injunction, although such sales were previously found to be outside the scope of the suit; • Our continuing support and sales for products previously provided to customers and end users may be made restricted by the Permanent Injunction, although technical support is not prohibited by the Permanent Injunction for products subject to the jury verdict award of damages, or permitted under the sunset period; • The Permanent Injunction provisions limiting sunset period sales by when each customer qualified our products and when each customer first submitted its orders to us for products, and provisions requiring written certification by customers, may cause our customers to exclude us from new product opportunities; • The Permanent Injunction royalties may make our costs too high to meet market pricing requirements set by our customers; • Our July 3, 2012 Settlement Agreement with Broadcom requires us to provide reports and take additional steps, and such activities may cause additional costs and limitations for us not borne by our competitors; • Any settlement terms, beyond the July 3, 2012 Settlement Agreement, we may reach in the suit brought by Broadcom may be less favorable to us than were settlements in other patent litigation involving companies; • We may reach a settlement, including the July 3, 2012 Settlement Agreement and other potential settlements, of the lawsuit brought by Broadcom, and incur a settlement burden, but Broadcom may not assert the patents against our competitors, thus leaving us with a competitive disadvantage relative to future business that may not be borne by our competitors; 13 Table of Contents • Delays in the time taken to reach any settlement, beyond the July 3, 2012 Settlement Agreement, in the suit brought by Broadcom may cause us to expend additional defense costs until a settlement is reached; • Broadcom may be unwilling to settle the remaining lawsuit with us, beyond the July 3, 2012 Settlement Agreement, for strategic or tactical reasons that we are unable to determine; • A settlement, beyond the July 3, 2012 Settlement Agreement, in the suit brought by Broadcom may never be reached, and a permanent injunction may be issued and remain in place for the life of the patents in the lawsuit; • The interpretation of the provisions of the Permanent Injunction may be unfavorable to us, resulting in part because of the complexity of the business practices used by our customers, including a large quantity of different customer product models, customer platforms, and design configurations, and the complexity of the supply chains, support implementations, and product distribution networks used by our customers, each of which may result in the need for further hearings before the Court; • Our supply to customers in the United States may be disrupted by the Permanent Injunction affecting our Ethernet based products that include our BE2 or BE3 chips (collectively referred to as the affected products); • Our total net revenues may be reduced by our inability to sell the affected products in the United States after any injunction; • The content of the Permanent Injunction, and its Appendix, may be modified by the Court in ways that are unfavorable to us; • The Court may amend the Appendix to the Permanent Injunction to exclude certain device/customer product combinations; • The Court may determine that we have not adequately proven the extent of the injuries that may occur to our customers and the end users due to a sunset period that is too short, and the Court may not modify the Permanent Injunction to provide for a longer time period; • The Court may determine that we have not adequately proven reasons for delays in completing product redesigns and retesting, and the Court may not modify the Permanent Injunction to provide for a longer time period; • The re-trial may result in significant additional defense costs, and the outcome for such a re-trial is uncertain, but may include a further injunction and may result in further product redesign activities; • Broadcom could file additional lawsuits against us, asserting additional claims from the same patents involved in the lawsuit, or additional patents, or file other proceedings with commissions such as the International Trade Commission; and • Any appeals we make with respect to the determinations made by the jury or the Court may not be successful; any requests for stay of the Permanent Injunction that we make pending the resolution of any appeal may not be granted; and royalties we pay pending an appeal may not be promptly reimbursed to us even if we are successful with any appeal. Ongoing lawsuits, such as the action brought by Broadcom, present inherent risks, including continuing expenses of litigation; risk of loss of patent rights and/or monetary damages; risk of injunction against the sale of products incorporating the technology in question, including substantial costs and difficulties in implementing design changes and the associated customer re-qualification thereof or maintaining favorable working relationships with our suppliers of SerDes modules; counterclaims, attorneys’ fees, and diversion of management’s attention from other business matters. Such lawsuits and the related risks thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The current macro-economic environment continues to result in a reduction in information technology spending. The demand for our network storage products has been driven by the demand for high performance storage networking products and solutions that support enterprise computing applications, including on-line transaction 14 Table of Contents processing, data mining, data warehousing, multimedia, and Internet applications. The current weakness in domestic and worldwide economic conditions and related disruptions in world credit and equity markets, as well as the European debt crisis, have resulted in a global downturn in spending on information technology. If the continuing weakness and uncertainty in the global economy result in significant reductions in the demand for our products, solutions, and applications, it will adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in the near term and possibly beyond. The adverse effects of any sustained reductions in information technology spending on our operating results may be exacerbated by our research and development investments, strategic investments and merger and acquisition activity, as well as customer service and support, which we may need to continue despite any such reductions in demand. Our business is highly competitive. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by rapid technological advances, price erosion, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. Our current and potential competition consists of major domestic and international companies, some of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, and distribution resources than we have. We currently compete against QLogic Corporation (QLogic), Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. (Brocade) and PMC Sierra, Inc (PMC Sierra). for our Fibre Channel (FC) products. For Ethernet technology, we compete against the leading integrated circuits (IC) vendors including Intel Corporation (Intel), Broadcom, QLogic and Mellanox Technologies, LTD (Mellanox). Our competitors for Ethernet and FC products include Brocade and QLogic. We expect that our markets will continue to attract new competition. Additional companies, including but not limited to our suppliers, strategic partners, Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) customers and emerging companies, may enter the markets in which we compete and new or stronger competitors may emerge as a result of consolidation in the marketplace. Additionally, our existing competitors continue to introduce products with improved price/performance characteristics, and we may have to do the same to remain competitive. Furthermore, competitors may introduce new products to the market before we do, and thus obtain a first to market advantage over us. Increased competition could result in increased price competition, reduced revenues, lower profit margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A significant portion of our business depends upon the continued growth of the networking market. The size of our potential market is largely dependent on the overall demand for networking products and in particular upon the broadening acceptance of our converged network technologies. We believe that our investment in multi-protocol solutions that address the high performance needs of the converged networking market provides the greatest opportunity for our future revenue growth and profitability. However, the market for converged networking products may not gain broader acceptance and customers may choose alternative technologies that we are not investing in, or products supplied by other companies. Interest continues for other storage networking technologies such as Internet Small Computer Systems Interface (iSCSI), which may satisfy some Input/Output (I/O) connectivity requirements through standard Ethernet adapters and software at little to no incremental cost to end users. These software only iSCSI solutions compete with our Network Connectivity Products, particularly in the low end of the market. We have also launched Converged Network Adapters (CNAs) using Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE) or iSCSI protocols which may be used by the same customers impacting our network product revenues more than we anticipate. In addition, the market for FC products may shrink as more storage subsystems adopt SAS based connectivity for external and direct attached storage devices. Furthermore, FCoE may not be adopted at the rate or extent that we anticipate, and adoption of FCoE is largely dependent on third-party vendors and end users. While the usage of FCoE has increased since its first specifications were completed in 2009, continued adoption of FCoE is dependent on continued collaboration and cooperation among information technology solutions providers. Since our products are sold as parts of integrated systems, demand for our products is driven by the demand for such integrated systems, including other companies’ complementary products. A lack of demand for these integrated systems or a lack of complementary products required for these integrated systems to be deployed 15 Table of Contents could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If the converged networking market does not grow, grows more slowly than we anticipate, declines, or attracts more competitors than we expect, or if our products do not achieve continued market acceptance, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from sales to a limited number of customers, none of which are subject to exclusive or long-term contracts. We rely almost exclusively on OEMs and sales through distribution channels for our revenue. For the fiscal year ended July 1, 2012, we derived approximately 91% of our net revenues from sales to OEM customers and approximately 9% from sales through distribution. Furthermore, as some of our sales through distribution channels consist of OEM products, OEM customers effectively generated approximately 95% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2012. Moreover, direct and indirect sales to our top five customers (including customer-specific models purchased or marketed indirectly through distributors, resellers and other third parties) accounted for approximately 81% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2012. If we are unable to retain our current OEM and distributor customers, recruit additional or replacement customers, or timely collect amounts due from our customers, or if demand from our customers is reduced due to difficulties in their ability to acquire components or other products such as microprocessors, disk drives, switches and optical modules used in conjunction with our products or in the deployments of their products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As is common in the technology industry, our agreements with OEMs and distributors are typically non-exclusive, have no volume commitments, and often may be terminated by either party without cause. It is increasingly commonplace for our OEM and distributor customers to utilize or carry competing product lines. If we were to lose business from one or more significant OEM or distributor customers to a competitor, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our OEMs may elect to change their business practices in ways that affect the timing of our revenues, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although we continue to expand our base of customers, we believe our revenues in the future will still be derived from a limited number of customers. As a result, to the extent that sales to any of our significant customers do not increase in accordance with our expectations or are reduced or delayed, or if we are unable to collect our accounts receivables from our customers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results are difficult to forecast resulting in significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and results of operations have varied on a quarterly basis in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on such comparisons as indications of our future performance. We may be unable to maintain our current levels of growth or profitability in the future. Our revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast and could be adversely affected in any given quarter by many factors, including, but not limited to: • Changes in the size, mix, timing and terms of OEM or other customer orders; • Changes in the sales and deployment cycles for our products or desired inventory levels for our products; • Acquisitions or strategic investments by our customers, competitors or us; • Timing and market acceptance of new or enhanced product introductions, including the timing of server chipset refresh cycles related to new server chipsets, such as Intel Corporation’s Romley chipset, by us, our OEM customers or competitors; • Market share losses or difficulty in gaining incremental market share; • Reduced demand from our customers if there is a shortage of, or difficulties in, acquiring components or other products, such as microprocessors, disk drives, switches, and optical modules, used in conjunction with our products in the deployment of systems; 16 Table of Contents • Seasonality; • Changes in general social and economic conditions, including but not limited to natural disasters, terrorism, public health crises, slower than expected market growth, reduced economic activity, delayed economic recovery, loss of consumer confidence, increased energy costs, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns, concerns about inflation or deflation, recession, and reduced business profits and capital spending, with resulting changes in customer technology budgeting and spending; • Fluctuations in product development, procurement, resource utilization and other operating expenses; • Inability to realize anticipated efficiencies resulting from increased revenues; • Difficulties controlling unanticipated costs, including operating expenses, as revenues increase; • Inability of our electronics manufacturing service providers (EMS) or suppliers to produce and distribute our products in a timely fashion; • Difficulties with updates, changes or additions to our information technology systems; and • Breaches of our network security, including viruses. Order deferrals and cancellations by our customers, declining average sales prices, changes in the mix of products sold, shortages of materials, delays in the introduction of new products and longer than anticipated sales cycles for our products have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations in the past. Despite these factors, we, along with our EMS providers, maintain significant finished goods, work-in-progress and raw materials inventory to meet estimated order forecasts. If our customers purchase less than their forecasted orders or cancel or delay existing purchase orders, there will be higher levels of inventory that face a greater risk of obsolescence. If our customers choose to purchase products in excess of the forecasted amounts or in a different product mix, there might be inadequate inventory or manufacturing capacity to fill their orders. As a result of these and other unexpected factors or developments, future operating results may be, from time to time, below the expectations of investors or market analysts, which would have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, and the frequent introduction of new products and enhancements. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to enhance our existing products and to introduce new products on a timely basis to meet changes in customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Currently, new and proposed technologies such as 16 Gb/s and 32 Gb/s Fibre Channel solutions; FCoE; 40GbE and 100GbE solutions; Infiniband; Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) over Converged Ethernet (RoCE) and low latency Ethernet Solutions; PCI Express 3.0; PCI Express Advanced Switching; 10G base T; 6 Gb/s and 12 Gb/s SAS; and Solid State Drives (SSDs) are in development by many companies and their ultimate acceptance and deployment in the market is uncertain. We are developing some, but not all of these technologies, and we cannot be sure that the technologies we chose to develop will achieve market acceptance, or that technologies that we chose not to develop will be available for purchase or license from third parties or will be immaterial to our business. These developments or enhancements, such as the migration of our next generation products from 65nm to 40nm or lower geometry process technologies, may be late, may have technical problems, may fail to meet customer or market specifications and may not be competitive with other products using alternative technologies that offer comparable performance and functionality. We may be unable to successfully develop additional next generation products, new products or product enhancements. Our next generation products or any new products or product enhancements may not be accepted in new or existing markets. Our business will suffer if we fail to continue to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner or on a cost-effective basis. Furthermore, if our products are not available in time for the qualification cycle at an OEM, we may be forced to wait for the next qualification cycle or may miss the market window. In addition, new products and 17 Table of Contents enhancements developed by us may not be backwards compatible to existing equipment already installed in the market. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop new products, enhance or sell existing products, or consume raw materials in a timely and cost effective manner in response to technological and market changes, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may be unsuccessful in our expansion into new segments of the storage and server technology market, and the costs associated with our expansion may be greater than anticipated. To remain a significant supplier of networking technologies, we will need to continue to expand the range of products and solutions offered to our OEM customers. Expansion into other areas of the storage and server technology market, whether by acquisition or through internal growth, and the resulting increases in expenditures to support these new areas may be greater than anticipated. If we fail to successfully expand into new areas of the storage and server technology market with products that we do not currently offer, and effectively address these new market opportunities, we may lose market share and revenue opportunities to our competitors. Any such loss of opportunities or any failure by us to effectively manage the costs associated with expanding into new markets may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Further, although most of our revenues have historically been derived from products based on Fibre Channel technology, we expect to continue to grow our business by offering converged networking solutions. We believe that our Fibre Channel products and our converged networking solutions will, at least initially, have similar customers and other marketing requirements that should produce certain synergies and cost savings as we expand our converged network solutions business. However, if the expansion of our converged networking solutions business does not produce the synergies and cost savings with our core Fibre Channel business that we anticipate, our marketing and other business expenses relating to our converged network solutions business could be greater than anticipated and our financial condition could be adversely affected. The timing of migration by our customers toward emerging technologies and newer product platforms varies. Any failure of our OEM customers to keep up with rapid technological change and to successfully market and sell systems that incorporate new technologies could adversely affect our business. Our revenues depend significantly upon the ability and willingness of our OEM customers to commit significant resources to develop, promote, and deliver products that incorporate our technology. In addition, if our customers’ products are not commercially successful, it would have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As our customers migrate from one platform to the enhanced price/performance of the next platform, we may experience reduced revenue, gross profit, or gross margin levels associated with lower average selling prices or higher relative product costs associated with improved performance. While we regularly compare forecasted demand for our products against inventory on hand and open purchase commitments, to the extent that customers migrate more quickly than anticipated, the corresponding reduction in demand for older product platforms may result in excess or obsolete inventory and related charges which could potentially have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers may elect to substitute low-end adapter card solutions and chip only options for use in high-end environments or applications. We supply FC and Ethernet I/O solutions that target separate high-end, midrange and small to medium sized end users. Historically, the majority of our revenues have come from our high-end enterprise server and storage solutions. If customers elect to utilize midrange HBA and CNAs in higher-end environments or applications, or migrate to chip only solutions faster than we anticipate, our business and financial condition could be negatively affected. Advancement of storage device capacity technology may not allow for additional revenue growth. Storage device density continues to improve rapidly and at some point in the future, the industry may experience a period where the advancement in technology may increase storage device capacity to a level that may equal or exceed the need for digital data storage requirements. This would result in a situation where the number 18 Table of Contents of units of storage devices required in the marketplace may level out or even decrease. To the extent that growth in storage device unit demand slows or decreases, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our average unit selling prices may decrease at a faster rate than we are able to realize cost reductions in our products. We continue to experience downward pressure on the average unit selling prices of our products. Furthermore, we may provide pricing discounts to customers based upon volume purchase criteria, and achievement of such discounts may reduce our average unit selling prices. To the extent that growth in unit demand fails to offset decreases in average unit selling prices, our revenues and financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Although we have historically achieved offsetting cost reductions, to the extent that average unit selling prices of our products decrease without a corresponding decrease in the costs of such products, our gross margins and financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Our gross margins could also be adversely affected by a shift in the mix of product sales to lower gross margin products. Furthermore, as our products are manufactured internationally, cost reductions would be more difficult to achieve if the value of the U.S. dollar were to deteriorate. Moreover, if the manufactured cost of our products were to increase due to inflation or other factors and we cannot pass along the increase in our costs to our customers, our gross margins and financial performance could be materially adversely affected. We may experience delays in our product development cycle and the introduction of new products. We have experienced delays in product development in the past and may experience similar delays in the future. Such delays may result from numerous factors, which include, but are not limited to: • Difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary employees and independent contractors; • Difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and other resource limitations; • Unanticipated or lengthy redevelopment efforts to make design changes resulting from unintentional intellectual product infringement and related injunctions; • Unanticipated engineering or manufacturing complexity, including complexity arising from third party suppliers of intellectual property such as foundries of our ASICs; • Undetected errors or failures in our products; • Changing OEM product specifications; • Delays in the acceptance or shipment of products by OEM customers; and • Changing market or competitive product requirements. We expect to continue to engage in product development alignment activities with customers, companies we have investments in and receivables from, and other third parties. These product development alignment activities can magnify several risks for us, including the loss of control over development activities and the timing of product availability. Accordingly, we face increased risk that such product development alignment activities will result in products that are not commercially successful or that are not available in a timely fashion. Given the short product life cycles in the markets for our products and the relatively long product development cycles, any delay or unanticipated difficulty associated with new product introductions or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Changes in our business model to separately charge for software may not result in expected revenue increases. We recently began charging separate license fees for software associated with our product offerings. The success of this strategy to generate software revenues is subject to numerous risks, including: • We may be unable to develop and market these new software products successfully; • The software products we develop may not be well received by customers; 19 Table of Contents • Our software products may have quality problems or other defects in the early stages that were not anticipated in the design of those products; and • Software products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. While revenues related to such software activities recognized during our fiscal year ended July 1, 2012 have not been significant, any failure to successfully implement this new strategy could have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the future. We are dependent on sole source and limited source third party suppliers and EMS providers for our products. We rely on third party suppliers for components and the manufacture of our products. A number of these components and products are only available from a single or limited number of suppliers. We also purchase certain components and products from single or limited suppliers and EMS providers to drive volume discounts. As a result, we have experienced delays or difficulty in securing components and finished goods in the past, as well as additional costs related to such issues. Delays or difficulty in securing components or finished goods at reasonable cost may be caused by numerous factors including, but not limited to: • Natural disasters, such as the significant flooding in Thailand in October 2011; • Discontinued production by a supplier; • Required long-term purchase commitments; • Undetected errors, failures or production quality issues, including projected failures that may constitute epidemic failure rates specified in agreements with our customers or that may require us to make concessions or accommodations for continuing customer relationships; • Timeliness of product delivery; • Increases in manufacturing costs due to lower volumes or more complex manufacturing process; • Sole sourcing of components made by a small number of suppliers, including the inability to obtain components and finished goods at reasonable cost from such sources and suppliers; • Market shortages; • Changes in business strategies of our suppliers and EMS providers; • Financial stability and viability of our suppliers and EMS providers; • Inability or unwillingness of our suppliers or EMS providers to continue their business with us; • Environmental, tax or legislative changes in the location where our products are produced or delivered; • Disruption in shipping channels; • Labor shortages or labor strikes at our suppliers or EMS providers; • Intellectual property controversies; and • Difficulties associated with international operations. We utilize third-party EMS providers located outside the United States to manufacture and test the majority of our products. These EMS providers also procure and manage most of the components used in our board and box level products. As a result of our reliance on third-party EMS providers, we may not be able to directly control product delivery schedules and the quality of our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If our EMS providers are unable to respond in a timely fashion to changes in customer demand, we may be unable to produce enough products to respond to sudden increases in demand, resulting in lost revenues. Alternatively, in the case of order cancellations or decreases in demand, we may be liable for excess or obsolete inventory or cancellation charges resulting from contractual purchase commitments that we have with our EMS providers. We regularly provide rolling forecasts of our 20 Table of Contents requirements to our EMS providers for planning purposes, pursuant to our agreements, a portion of which is binding upon us. Additionally, we are committed to accept delivery on the forecasted terms for a portion of the rolling forecast. Cancellations of orders or changes to the forecasts provided to any of our EMS providers may result in cancellation costs payable by us. In the past, we have been required to take delivery of materials from our EMS providers that were in excess of our requirements, and we have previously recognized charges and expenses related to such excess material. We expect that we will continue to incur such costs in the future. We also purchase ASICs from sole source suppliers, including LSI Corporation, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., Intel Corporation, Renesas Electronics America Inc., and Toshiba Corporation, who in turn rely on a limited number of suppliers and foundries to manufacture the ASICs. This creates risks in assuring the availability of such ASICs. While we have multiple ASIC suppliers, we sole source each of our ASIC, and we use the same ASIC supplier for more than one of our ASICs. The inability of the Company or our EMS providers to obtain these ASICs in sufficient quantities or in the desired time periods could delay the production and delivery of our products which, in turn, could result in lost revenue due to customer cancellations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The use of a sole source ASIC supplier may also create risks relating to intellectual property controversies including the need to prepare for design changes by the ASIC component supplier in response to such controversies. For example, on September 14, 2009, Broadcom Corporation filed a patent infringement lawsuit against the Company in the United States District Court in the Central District of California. The original complaint alleged infringement by the Company of ten Broadcom patents covering certain data and storage networking technologies. On February 23, 2010, Broadcom filed a first amended complaint adding allegations of infringement for one additional Broadcom patent. On May 26, 2010, Broadcom Corporation filed a separate patent infringement lawsuit against the Company in the United States District Court in the Central District of California. Broadcom sought a judgment for damages, injunctive relief, and an award of attorneys’ fees and costs. See Note 10 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements under the caption “Litigation” in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also see “Third party claims of intellectual property infringement could adversely affect our business” elsewhere in this Item 1A — Risk Factors. The Broadcom lawsuit includes allegations, amongst others, that our ASICs include SerDes modules obtained from our ASIC suppliers that infringe upon Broadcom’s patents. Specifically, the allegations assert that the SerDes modules provided by our ASIC suppliers use a kind of CDR phase interpolator design covered by such patents, two of which the Court has found Emulex to be infringing. We are in the process of working with our ASIC suppliers to redesign certain infringing ASICs in order to change out the CDR implementation, and certain of our ASICs may be superseded by redesigned ASICs containing alternative CDR designs. However, changing the CDR implementation for an existing ASIC may require a full layer metal spin. Expenses for non-recurring engineering costs paid to our suppliers for spins of other ASICs in the past have generally been in the range of $1 million to $2 million for each ASIC. Such chip spins also require significant time and effort by our personnel and the personnel of our ASIC supplier to develop and validate the new ASIC design. These efforts generally encompass some or all of the following activities: • ASIC Development — As a fabless ASIC company, we rely heavily on our ASIC suppliers to supply us with various pre-designed functional modules for the design of our ASICs. These pre-designed functional modules are sometimes called cores, and are sole sourced from each ASIC supplier and available for specific geometries of line widths (referred to as process nodes) which are available from a particular silicon foundry. The library of pre-designed functional modules from an ASIC component supplier include computer processors (such as those from ARM, Ltd. and Tensilica Inc.), static memory, buses, SerDes (serializers/deserializers), PCIe logic, dynamic memory, and interfaces. Our engineering personnel use computer tools from the ASIC supplier and third parties such as Magma Design Automation, Inc. and Synopsys, Inc. to create application logic that combines various of the pre-designed functional modules together with Emulex custom logic in order to form the ASIC design. The particular pre-designed functional modules are sole sourced, and are each specific to a particular process node; and the same pre-designed functional modules are used by many other companies as customers of the same ASIC component supplier. 21 Table of Contents • Firmware and Application Development — At the same time that ASIC logic design is being developed, our engineering personnel prepare ASIC firmware that operates on the computer processor included as a pre-designed functional module in the ASIC design, and host driver software that operates on a host computer to which the ASIC will be connected. The ASIC firmware is based on the instruction set implemented by the computer processor, and that instruction set is sole sourced to the supplier of the computer processor included as a pre-designed functional module. Also, at the same time as the ASIC logic design is being developed, our engineering personnel design circuit boards and cards into which the ASIC may be inserted for testing and for connection to host computers and external networks. • Functional and Physical Design and Verification (Design & Verification) — The purpose of Design & Verification is to ensure that the ASIC design meets its specification. The Design & Verification process involves the computer simulation of the ASIC design, including the sole source pre-designed functional modules contained in the ASIC design. The ASIC component supplier assists our engineering personnel with the use of the computer tools and the performance of the Design & Verification process. Such assistance includes the implementation of a layout or tape-out of the design pattern to be created on the silicon die, and the simulation of the electrical effects of such a layout or tape-out. The preparation of a layout or tape-out involves the use of sole source computer tools which our engineering personnel do not have. Partial testing of the ASIC firmware and host drivers can be performed as a part of the Design & Verification process. • Pre-production Manufacturing — After our engineering personnel complete the Design & Verification process, the ASIC component supplier is asked to prepare the ASIC design for the production of the ASIC wafers and die at the silicon foundry. Such preparation includes the creation of multiple masks used in manufacturing of the ASIC wafers and die. The preparation of masks involves the use of sole source computer tools which our engineering personnel do not have. Once the layout and masks have been completed, the ASIC component supplier provides the masks to the silicon foundry which initiates the manufacturing of the ASIC wafers and die. Our engineering personnel provide information about the ASIC design to allow the preparation of foundry tests for the ASIC wafers and die, and for the preparation of supplier tests for the ASICs after packaging. The silicon foundry and the ASIC component supplier perform tests on the wafers and die, and causes the die to be packaged, before they are shipped to us. The initial manufacturing of the ASIC wafers is in a smaller quantity, referred to as prototypes or pre-production units, which are provided to us for further testing by us and our customers. • Design Verification and Test (DVT) — Once our engineering personnel have received prototypes or pre-production units of the ASICs, we begin the DVT process. As a part of the DVT process, we have a contract manufacturer prepare boards and cards containing the ASICs. The first phase of DVT involves bring-up testing to check the performance of the ASIC when connected to a host computer, but without extensive testing of the ASIC firmware and host driver software. The second phase of the DVT involves extensive testing of the ASIC together with its ASIC firmware and host driver software. The third phase of DVT involves exhaustive testing of the ASIC, ASIC firmware, and host driver software using a test specification requiring unfailing operation in many different host computer operating systems, including current and past versions of server computers and storage subsystems from all of our major OEM customers, using many different versions of network switches, disk, tape and solid state memory storage systems, and under network disruption and failure modes with many different permutations of error conditions and network traffic problems. The third phase of DVT takes many weeks of time. If bugs are found during DVT, our engineering personnel determine the root cause of the bug, and may make changes to the ASIC firmware and driver software to correct the bugs under an engineering change order (ECO) procedure. Such ECO changes to the ASIC firmware and driver software are followed by more limited third phase testing, referred to as regression testing, which tests the parts of the functions affected by the ECO. If the root cause review of the bug determines that the bug cannot be corrected by the ASIC firmware or driver software, then our engineering personnel determine what portion of the ASIC design needs to be changed, resulting in a chip spin. If the bug requires changes to the custom logic designed by our personnel, then we proceed with making a re-design of the applicable parts of the ASIC design. If the bug requires changes to any of the pre-designed functional modules, those changes are made by or for the ASIC 22 Table of Contents component provider, and updated simulation information is provided to our engineering personnel. Once the chip has been redesigned, we go back to EVT for the changed design. • Customer Certification and Qualification — Customer certification and qualification includes testing by our OEM customers to approve our product for purchase and use with their systems. Certification and qualification testing includes exhaustive testing by the OEM of our ASIC, ASIC firmware, driver software and/or board-level applications in networks with the newest products made by the OEM, including products not yet provided to us or to end users. The certification and qualification testing by an OEM may take many weeks. If bugs are discovered during the certification and qualification testing, the bugs are reported to us, we perform a root cause analysis, and proceed with redesign as described earlier with respect to the DVT process. As a result, the cost of implementing ASIC design changes to mitigate actual or alleged intellectual property infringement claims, and/or the failure of our customers to qualify and adopt the replacement ASIC chips could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our intellectual property protections may be inadequate. We believe that our continued success depends primarily on continuing innovation, marketing, and technical expertise, as well as the quality of product support and customer relations. At the same time, our success is partially dependent on the proprietary technology contained in our products. We currently rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in our products. We cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our proprietary rights, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology, or that we can maintain such technology as trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured, or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or at all. Furthermore, we enter into various development projects and arrangements with other companies. In some cases, these arrangements allow for the sharing or use of our intellectual property. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We attempt to mitigate this risk by obtaining indemnification from others, where possible. Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License (GPL), which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of licenses customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. We may be unable to attract, motivate or retain key managerial and technical personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the performance and continued service of key managers, as well as engineers involved in the development of our storage networking technologies and technical support of our storage networking products and customers. Competition for such highly skilled employees is intense in the communities in which we operate, as well as our industry, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in recruiting, training, and retaining such personnel. In addition, employees may leave us and subsequently compete against us, and we may incur costs relating to their departure. Also, many of these key managerial and technical personnel receive stock-based compensation incentives as part of our employee retention initiatives. The number of shares authorized under stock based plans may be insufficient and shareholders may not approve to increase the number of authorized shares. New regulations, volatility in the stock market, and other factors could diminish the value of our stock-based compensation incentives, putting us at a competitive disadvantage and forcing us to 23 Table of Contents use more cash compensation. If we are unable to attract new managerial and technical employees, or are unable to retain and motivate our current key managerial and technical employees, or are forced to use more cash compensation to retain or replace key personnel, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our international business activities subject us to increased business risks. For the fiscal year ended July 1, 2012, sales in Asia Pacific accounted for approximately 57% of our total net revenues, sales in the United States accounted for approximately 28% of our total net revenues, and sales in Europe, Middle East, Africa and the rest of the world accounted for approximately 15%, of our total net revenues based on billed-to address. We expect that our sales will continue to increase outside of the United States as our customers are migrating towards using contract manufacturers located internationally, predominantly in Asia Pacific. However, because we sell to OEMs and distributors who ultimately resell our products to their customers, the geographic mix of our sales based on billed-to address may not be reflective of the geographic mix of end-user demand or installations. All of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our products could become less competitive in international markets. In addition, as we continue to expand our international operations, an increasing amount of our expenses will be incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and as a result, we will be required from time to time to convert currencies to meet our obligations. Additionally, our suppliers are increasingly located outside of the U.S., and a significant portion of our products is produced at our EMS providers’ production facilities in Thailand, Malaysia, and China. As a result, we are subject to the risks inherent in international operations. Our international business activities could be affected, limited or disrupted by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • Fluctuations in freight costs and potential disruptions in the transportation infrastructure for our products and components; • Longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • Increased travel, infrastructure, accounting, and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • Difficulty in locating, hiring and retaining personnel with requisite skill sets and knowledge; • Difficulty maintaining management oversight and control of remote locations; • Changes in the value of local currencies relative to our functional currency; • Costs and risks of localizing products for international countries; • Import and export restrictions; • Limitations on the amount and nature of foreign investment, including restrictions on the structure and/or permissible forms of investment; • Imposition of or changes in governmental controls, taxes, tariffs, trade restrictions, and regulatory requirements to our current or future operations; • Potential restrictions on transferring funds between countries and difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held outside of the U.S. in a tax-efficient manner; • Taxation in multiple jurisdictions; • Bureaucratic intrusions and delays, government corruption, political instability, war, and/or terrorism; and • General economic and social conditions within international countries. All of these factors could harm future sales of our products to international customers or production of our products outside of the United States, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile, which has and may result in lawsuits against us and our officers and directors. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, during calendar year 2012 through July 1, 2012, the closing sales price of our common stock ranged from a low of $6.45 per share to a high of $11.01 per share. Factors that could have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include, but are not limited to, the following: • Actual or alleged intellectual property infringement; • Quarterly variations in customer demand and operating results; • The gain or loss of significant customers or design wins; • Pricing pressures; • General conditions in the computer, storage, or communications markets; • Events affecting other companies that investors deem to be comparable to us; • Announcements of new products by us or our competitors; • Offers to buy us or a competitor for a premium over recent trading prices; • Changes in analysts’ earnings estimates; • Changes in analyst recommendations, price targets, or other parameters that may not be related to earnings estimates; • Rumors or dissemination of false information; and • Short selling of our common stock. In addition, a takeover proposal by any third party to acquire the outstanding shares of our common stock may result in further volatility in the price of our common stock. If a takeover does not occur following announcement of a takeover proposal, for any reason, the market price of our common stock may decline. In the past, companies, including us, that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. If we were to be the subject of similar litigation in the future or experience unfavorable outcomes in any of our pending litigation, as discussed in Note 10 in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements under the caption “ Litigation” in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Such litigation would also divert management’s attention from other business matters. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Also see “Critical Accounting Policies” contained in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The final determination of our income tax liability may be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals and our tax liabilities may be adversely affected by changes in applicable tax laws. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and international jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Additionally, our calculations of income taxes are based on our interpretations of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. 25 Table of Contents Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by numerous factors including: • Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; • Changes in the allocation of income and expenses related to cost sharing arrangements, including adjustments related to changes in our corporate structure, acquisitions or tax law changes; • Tax effects of increases in nondeductible compensation; • Changes in transfer pricing regulations; • Changes in domestic and foreign tax laws including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income and changes to foreign tax credit rules; • Changes in accounting rules or principles, including the potential adoption of international financial reporting standards (IFRS) and changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; • Unfavorable results from income tax audits; and • Expiration or lapses of federal and state research credits. We have adopted transfer-pricing procedures between our subsidiaries to regulate intercompany transfers. Our procedures call for the licensing of intellectual property, the provision of services, and the sale of products from one subsidiary to another at prices that we believe are equivalent to an arm’s length negotiated price. We have established these procedures due to the fact that some of our assets, such as intellectual property, developed in the U.S., will be utilized by other affiliated companies. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the taxing authorities of any other jurisdiction were to successfully require changes to our transfer pricing practices, we could become subject to higher taxes and our earnings would be adversely affected. Any determination of income reallocation or modification of transfer pricing laws can result in an income tax assessment on the portion of income deemed to be derived from the U.S. or other taxing jurisdiction. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of our income tax liability will not be materially different than what is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other foreign, state and local tax authorities. We are currently under audit by the IRS for fiscal years 2008 and 2009 and an amended return for fiscal 2007, and by the California Franchise Tax Board for fiscal years 2008 and 2009 . We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions and strategic investments. Our future performance will depend in part on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions and strategic investments, and whether we can successfully integrate, operate or partner with these businesses with our existing operations in an effective and efficient manner. Integrating our operations with acquired businesses is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and involves a number of risks and uncertainties. In addition, in order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, other strategic acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties relating to acquisitions and/or strategic investments include, but are not limited to: • The difficulty in integrating any newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; • The risk of diverting our resources and the attention of our senior management from the operations of our business; 26 Table of Contents • Additional demands on management related to the increase in the size and scope of our company following the acquisition; • Difficulties in combining corporate cultures; • Difficulties in the assimilation and retention of key employees; • The risks of potential disputes concerning indemnities and other obligations that could result in substantial costs; • Unknown defects of an acquired company’s products or assets that may not be identified due to the inherent limitations involved in the due diligence process of an acquisition; • Costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired businesses; • Delays, difficulties or unexpected costs in the integration, assimilation, implementation or modification of platforms, business information systems, functions, technologies and infrastructure to support the combined business, as well as maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal accounting controls), procedures and policies; • The challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from any acquisitions; • The risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures incurred to acquire such businesses or the capital expenditures needed to develop such businesses; • The risks of entering markets in which we have less experience; • The risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; and • Difficulties in maintaining relationships with present and potential customers, distributors and suppliers of the acquired business. Furthermore, to complete future acquisitions or strategic investments, we may need to issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could cause our earnings per share to decline. Unsolicited takeover proposals may be disruptive to our business. We have received an unsolicited takeover proposal in the past, and there can be no assurance a third party will not make an unsolicited takeover proposal in the future. The review and consideration of any takeover proposal may be a significant distraction for our management and employees and could require the expenditure of significant time and resources by us. Moreover, any unsolicited takeover proposal may create uncertainty for our employees and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees and to hire new talent. Any such takeover proposal may also create uncertainty for our customers, suppliers and other business partners, which may cause them to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us. The uncertainty arising from unsolicited takeover proposals and any related costly litigation may disrupt our business, which could result in an adverse effect on our operating results. Management and employee distraction related to any such takeover proposal also may adversely impact our ability to optimally conduct our business and pursue our strategic objectives. We have entered into Key Employee Retention Agreements with three of our current executive officers, and adopted a Change in Control Retention Plan, in which currently an additional 26 key employees participate. The participants of these retention arrangements may be entitled to severance payments and benefits, based on a period of between twelve months and two years, upon a termination of their employment by us without cause or by them for good reason in connection with a change of control of our company (each as defined in the applicable agreement or plan). These retention arrangements may not be adequate to allow us to retain critical employees during a time when a change in control is being proposed or is imminent. 27 Table of Contents Our corporate offices, principal product development facilities, EMS providers, suppliers and customers are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our California facilities, which include our corporate offices and principal product development facilities, are located near major earthquake faults. Any disruption in our business activities, personal injury, or damage to the facilities in excess of our currently insured amounts as a result of earthquakes or other such natural disasters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis, flooding, and earthquakes, such as the flooding in Thailand in October 2011 and the earthquake off the coast of Japan and the resulting tsunami in March 2011, can disrupt manufacturing operations of our EMS providers, component suppliers and customers or the downstream suppliers that are located in such impacted areas, resulting in lost revenue opportunities in the near term and/or long term. We currently do not carry earthquake insurance. However, we do carry various other lines of insurance that may or may not be adequate to protect our business in the case of a natural disaster. Our certificate of incorporation and the related provisions under Delaware law could adversely affect the performance of our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, although we do not currently maintain a shareholders rights plan, we have maintained such a plan in the past and it is possible that we may adopt a shareholders rights plan in the future should general business, market and other conditions, opportunities and risks arise. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation, Delaware law, and any shareholders rights plan are generally intended to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with us and allow our board of directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing shareholder value. However, such provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. We may be subject to theft or misuse of our electronic data, which could result in third-party claims and harm our business and results of operations. We may experience attempts by others that try to gain unauthorized access through the Internet to our information technology systems, such as when they masquerade as authorized users or surreptitiously introduce software. These attempts, which might be the result of industrial or other espionage, or actions by hackers seeking to harm us, our products, or our end users. We seek to detect and investigate these security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such cyber threats could adversely affect our competitive position and reduce marketplace acceptance of our products; the value of our investment in research and development and marketing could be reduced; and third parties might assert against us or our customers claims related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data, or system reliability. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our system of internal controls may be inadequate. We maintain a system of internal controls in order to ensure we are able to collect, process, summarize, and disclose the information required by the Securities and Exchange Commission within the time periods specified. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Due to these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Additionally, public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If the internal controls put in place by us are not adequate or fail to perform as anticipated, we may be required to restate our financial statements, receive an adverse audit opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, or take other actions that 28 Table of Contents will divert significant financial and managerial resources, as well as be subject to fines or other government enforcement actions. Furthermore, the price of our stock could be adversely affected. We may need additional capital in the future and such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms. While we believe we have adequate working capital to meet our expected cash requirements for the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in the future for various purposes, including: • Acquisitions of or strategic investments in complementary businesses or technologies; • International expansion; • Development of new products or services; • Unanticipated competitive pressures; and • Unexpected tax or litigation costs and settlements. Furthermore, because a significant portion of our investment portfolio consists of U.S. government and U.S. government sponsored entity securities, any default by the U.S. government in its obligations or any downgrade in the rating of U.S. government securities could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our overall liquidity and the liquidity of our customers. Any additional financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of business opportunities, develop new products or services, or otherwise respond to unanticipated competitive pressures. In any such case, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Changes in laws, regulations, and financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations. As our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NYSE have implemented requirements and regulations and continue developing additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate scandals and laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. A change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as the increased use of fair value measures, proposed changes to revenue recognition, lease accounting, financial instruments and other accounting standards, and the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Implementation of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue and expense recognition, could cause us to defer revenue recognition or accelerate the timing of expense recognition, which would adversely affect our reported financial results, and could have an adverse effect on our stock price. As new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. Global warming issues may cause us to alter the way we conduct our business. The general public is becoming more aware of global warming issues, and as a result, governments around the world are beginning to focus on addressing this issue. This may result in new environmental regulations that 29 Table of Contents may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers, and our customers in how we conduct our business including the design, development, and manufacturing of our products. The cost of meeting these requirements may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 