Risk Factors” section or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying interest or principal amounts due on our indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, including the convertible notes, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under our other indebtedness. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to repay or repurchase our senior subordinated convertible notes or our other indebtedness. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of our senior subordinated convertible notes will become due and payable. Holders of the convertible notes may also require us to repurchase the convertible notes on May 16 in each of 2011, 2014, 2019, 2024 and 2029. In addition, if certain fundamental changes to our company occur, the holders of the convertible notes may require us to repurchase all or any portion of their convertible notes. We may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the principal amount due at maturity or the repurchase price of the convertible notes. Any such failure would constitute an event of default under the indenture for the senior subordinated convertible notes, which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of any other indebtedness we may have incurred. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversion of the senior subordinated convertible notes or other future issuances of our stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. The conversion of some or all of the senior subordinated convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Further, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants because the conversion of the convertible notes could depress the price of our common stock. In addition, future sales of substantial amounts of our stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Sales of our shares and the potential for such sales could cause our stock price to decline. Our adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 04-8 in 2004, requires the inclusion of shares available upon conversion of our convertible notes in calculating our diluted earnings per share (“EPS”), regardless of whether the notes are then convertible. The shares included in our EPS due to EITF 04-8 did not impact our consolidated results for the periods in which the notes were outstanding as the effect of the 7.3 million shares was anti-dilutive as of the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004. However, if in future periods the shares are dilutive, then 7.3 million shares will be added to our share count used to calculate diluted earnings per share, and this inclusion could result in significantly lower diluted EPS. 22 Table of Contents Amortization of our intangible assets, which represent a significant portion of our total assets, will adversely affect our net income and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. A substantial portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, recorded as a result of our merger with Thermo Cardiosystems, Inc. (“TCA”) in 2001. We may not receive the recorded value for our intangible assets if we sell or liquidate our business or assets. The material concentration of intangible assets increases the risk of a large charge to earnings if the revenue or recoverability of these intangible assets is impaired. For example, in the first quarter of 2004, we completed an assessment of the final results from the feasibility clinical trial for the Aria CABG graft, which was ongoing through fiscal 2003. Based on the clinical trial results, we decided not to devote additional resources to development of the Aria graft. Upon the decision to discontinue product development, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $9 million as of January 3, 2004 to write off purchased intangible assets related to the Aria graft. In the event of another such charge to net income, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Product liability claims could damage our reputation and hurt our financial results. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. We maintain a limited amount of product liability insurance. Our insurance policies generally must be renewed on an annual basis. We may not be able to maintain or increase such insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, and such insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us in excess, or outside, of our insurance coverage could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also reduce our ability to obtain physician acceptance of our products or expand our business. The competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry. If we are unable to retain or hire key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel, and attracting and retaining additional highly qualified personnel in these areas. We face intense competition for such personnel, and we may not be able to attract and retain these individuals. We compete for talent with numerous companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations, throughout all our locations. The loss of key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire and retain additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. Our success will depend in large part on the continued services of our research, managerial and manufacturing personnel. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, our closing stock price has ranged from $11.79 to $25.30 during the twelve months ended December 30, 2006. The price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: • future announcements concerning us or our competitors; • regulatory developments, enforcement actions bearing on advertising, marketing or sales, and disclosure regarding completed/ ongoing or future clinical trials; • quarterly variations in operating results, which we have experienced in the past and expect to experience in the future; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • reaction to estimates of business operations, product development or financial performance made public by our management; • business acquisitions or divestitures; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; 23 Table of Contents • changes in third party reimbursement practices; • charges, amortization and other financial effects relating to our merger with TCA; and • fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions. In addition, stock markets in general and the market for shares of health care stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, fluctuations that frequently have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline below its current price and the market price of our stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. Shareholders often have instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. Several securities class action suits have been filed against us in the past, and if other such suits are filed against us in the future we may incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. If we make acquisitions or divestitures, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to our business. If we do so, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies and we may not realize the expected benefits of any such acquisition. In addition, acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, any of which could harm our business. We may also sell businesses or assets as part of our strategy or if we receive offers from third parties. If we do so, we may sell an asset or business for less than its carrying value. The occurrence of a catastrophic disaster or other similar events could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which would require us to cease or curtail operations. We are vulnerable to damage from various types of disasters, including earthquake, fire, terrorist acts, flood, power loss, communications failures and similar events. For example, in October 1989, a major earthquake that caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities struck near the area in which our Pleasanton, California facility is located. If any such disaster were to occur, we may not be able to operate our business at our facilities, in particular because our premises require FDA approval, which could result in significant delays before we can manufacture products from a replacement facility. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Therefore, any such catastrophe could seriously harm our business and results of operations. We have a history of net losses. We were founded in 1976 and we have had some history of incurring losses from operations. We anticipate that our expenses will increase as a result of increased pre-clinical and clinical testing, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We could also incur significant additional costs in connection with our business development activities and the development and marketing of new products and indicated uses for our existing products, as well as litigation and share-based compensation costs. Such costs could prevent us from maintaining profitability in future periods. We have experienced rapid growth and changes in our business, and our failure to manage this and any future growth could harm our business. The number of our employees has substantially increased during the past several years. We expect to continue to increase the number of our employees, and our business may suffer if we do not manage and train our new employees effectively. Our product sales may not continue to grow at a rate sufficient to support the costs associated with an increasing number of employees. Any future periods of rapid growth may place significant strains on our managerial, financial and other resources. The rate of any future expansion, in combination with our complex technologies and products, may demand an unusually high level of managerial effectiveness in anticipating, planning, coordinating and meeting our operational needs, as well as the needs of our customers. 24 Table of Contents Revisions to accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws could result in changes to our standard practices and could require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources, especially by senior management. We must follow accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws set by the governing bodies and lawmakers in the U.S. and U.K. where we do business. From time to time, these governing bodies and lawmakers implement new and revised rules and laws. These new and revised accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws may require changes to our financial statements, the composition of our board of directors, the composition, the responsibility and manner of operation of various board-level committees, the information filed by us with the governing bodies and enforcement of tax laws, against us. Implementing changes required by new standards, requirements or laws likely will require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources. It is impossible to completely predict the impact, if any, on us of future changes to accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws. Our accounting principles that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting principles are as follows: • accounting for stock-based compensation; • accounting for income taxes; and • accounting for business combinations and related goodwill. In particular, in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R) “Share-Based Payment,” which requires the measurement of all stock-based compensation to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of income. The adoption of SFAS 123 (R) had a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results. It will continue to significantly adversely affect our reported financial results and may impact the way in which we conduct our business. Please refer to Notes 1 and 11 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoption of SFAS 123( R). It is possible that the application of certain current accounting standards may change which may have a material impact to our consolidated results of operations. We are subject to taxation in a number of jurisdictions and changes to the corporate tax rate and laws of any of these jurisdictions could increase the amount of corporate taxes we have to pay. We pay taxes principally in the U.S., U.K., Germany and France and these tax jurisdictions have in the past and may in the future make changes to their corporate tax rates and other tax laws, which changes could increase our future tax provision. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavourably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in states with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities, primarily related to our intercompany transfer pricing. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examination. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Future levels of research and development spending, capital investment and export sales may impact our entitlement to related tax credits and benefits which have the effect of lowering our tax rate. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals and biomaterials could be time consuming and costly. Manufacturing and research and development of our products requires the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biomaterials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. We could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and 25 Table of Contents regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts or harm our operating results. Anti-takeover defenses in our governing documents could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our governing documents could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: • Our Articles of Incorporation allow our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without shareholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. • We have a rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” which would make it difficult for someone to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could delay, prevent or allow our Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if the proposed transaction was favored by a majority of our independent shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 