Item 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses face many risks. The risks described below are what we believe to be the material risks facing our company, however, they may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. Investors should consider the following risks, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, such as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any public announcements we make from time to time. If we fail to obtain approval from the FDA and from foreign regulatory authorities, we cannot market and sell our products under development in the U.S. and in other countries, and if we fail to comply with government regulations, including FDA Quality System Regulations, or our products experience certain adverse events, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may withdraw our market clearance or take other enforcement action. Before we can market new products in the U.S., we must obtain PMA approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA. This process is lengthy and uncertain. In the U.S., one must obtain clearance from the FDA of a 510(k) pre-market notification or approval of a more extensive submission known as a PMA application. If the FDA concludes that any of our products do not meet the requirements to obtain clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA, then we will be required to file a PMA application. The process for a PMA application is lengthy, expensive and typically requires extensive pre-clinical and clinical trial data. We may not obtain clearance of a 510(k) notification or approval of a PMA application with respect to any of our products on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to obtain timely clearance or approval for our products, we will not be able to market and sell them, thereby harming our ability to generate sales. The FDA also may limit the claims that we can make about our products. We also may be required to obtain clearance of a 510(k) notification, a new PMA, or a PMA Supplement from the FDA before we can market products which have already been cleared, but which have since been modified or we subsequently wish to market for new disease indications. In addition, our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to the FDCA and various other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Government regulations and foreign requirements specific to medical devices are wide ranging and govern, among other things, design, development, manufacture, testing, labeling, storage, marketing, distribution, promotion, record keeping, and approval or clearance. The FDA requires us and certain of our third-party suppliers to adhere to Quality System Regulations ("QSR"), which include production design controls, testing, quality control, labeling, packaging, sterilization, and storage and documentation procedures. The FDA may at any time inspect our facilities to determine whether we have adequate compliance with the FDA's QSR and other regulatory requirements. Compliance with QSR for medical devices is difficult and costly. If our facilities or those of our suppliers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action. The FDA also strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion, and other types of information on products that are placed on the market. Medical devices may be promoted only for their approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. It is possible that federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under a variety of statutory authorities, including under the FDCA as well as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In addition, we may not be found compliant as a result of future changes in, or interpretations of, regulations by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. 18 Table of Contents Sales of our products outside the U.S. are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approvals from foreign countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for foreign licensing may differ from FDA requirements. In any event, if we fail to obtain the necessary approvals to sell any of our products in a foreign country, or if any obtained approval is revoked or suspended, we will not be able to sell those products there. The federal, state and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations and policies of regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions. Enforcement actions could include product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals, and civil and criminal penalties, which in each case would harm our business. If hospitals do not conduct Destination Therapy procedures using our VADs, market opportunities for our products will be diminished. The use of certain of our VADs as long-term therapy in patients who are not candidates for heart transplantation (i.e., Destination Therapy patients) was approved by the FDA in 2002, and was approved for coverage and reimbursement by the CMS, the agency responsible for administering the Medicare program, in late 2003. We received FDA approval for the HeartMate II in Destination Therapy on January 20, 2010. The number of Destination Therapy procedures actually performed depends on many factors, many of which are out of our direct control, including, but not limited to, the following: •the number of CMS sites approved for Destination Therapy; •the clinical outcomes of Destination Therapy procedures relative to pharmacological, gene- and cell-based therapies, and other device-based alternatives; •cardiologists' and referring physicians' education regarding, and their commitment to, Destination Therapy; •the economics of the Destination Therapy procedure for individual hospitals, which include the costs of the VAD and related pre- and post-operative procedures and their reimbursement; •the impact of changes in reimbursement rates on the timing of purchases of VADs for Destination Therapy; and •the economics for individual hospitals of not conducting a Destination Therapy procedure, including the costs and related reimbursements of long-term hospitalization. The different outcomes of these and other factors, and their timing, will have a significant impact on our future product sales. Physicians may not accept or continue to accept our current products and products under development. The success of our current and future products will require acceptance or continued acceptance by cardiovascular and vascular surgeons and other medical professionals. Such acceptance will depend on clinical results and the conclusion by these professionals that our products are safe, cost-effective and acceptable methods of treatment. Even if the safety and efficacy of our future products are established, physicians may elect not to use them for a number of reasons. These reasons could include the high cost of our VAD systems, restrictions on insurance coverage, unfavorable reimbursement from healthcare payors, or use of alternative therapies including pharmacological, gene- and cell-based 19 Table of Contents therapies, and other device based alternatives. Also, economic, psychological, ethical and other concerns may limit general acceptance of our ventricular assist, graft and other products. We rely on specialized suppliers for certain components and materials in our products and alternative suppliers may not be available. We depend on a number of custom-designed components and materials supplied by other companies including, in some cases, single source suppliers for components, instruments and materials used in our VAD products and blood testing products. For example, single source suppliers currently manufacture and supply our heart valves used in our HeartMate XVE product. We do not have long-term written agreements with most of our vendors and receive components from these vendors on a purchase order basis only. If we need alternative sources for key raw materials or component parts for any reason, such alternative sources may not be available and our inventory may not be sufficient to fill orders before we find alternative suppliers or begin manufacturing these components or materials ourselves. Cessation or interruption of sales of circulatory support products may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Alternative suppliers, if available, may not agree to supply us. In addition, FDA approval may be required before using new suppliers or manufacturing our own components or materials, which can take additional time to procure. Existing suppliers could also become subject to an FDA enforcement action, which could also disrupt our supplies. If alternative suppliers are not available, we may not have the expertise or resources necessary to produce these materials or component parts internally. Because of the long product development cycle in our business, suppliers may discontinue components upon which we rely before the end of life of our products. In addition, the timing of the discontinuation may not allow us time to develop and obtain FDA approval for a replacement component before we exhaust our inventory of the legacy component. If suppliers discontinue components on which we rely, we may have to: •pay premium prices to our suppliers to keep their production lines open or to obtain alternative suppliers; •buy substantial inventory to last through the scheduled end of life of our product, or through such time that we expect to have a replacement product developed and approved by the FDA; or •stop shipping the product in which the legacy component is used once our inventory of the discontinued component is exhausted. Any of these interruptions in the supply of our materials could result in substantial reductions in product sales and increases in our production costs. We may encounter problems manufacturing our products. We may encounter difficulties manufacturing products in quantities sufficient to meet demand. We do not have experience in manufacturing some of our products in the commercial quantities that might be required with FDA approval of those products and indications currently under development, including the HeartMate II. If we have difficulty manufacturing any of our products, our sales may prove lower than would otherwise be the case and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, our product sales or operating results may be harmed. Competition from medical device and medical device divisions of healthcare companies, pharmaceutical companies and gene- and cell-based therapies is intense and is expected to increase. The vast majority of VAD-eligible patients still receive pharmacological treatment instead of a VAD. We therefore continue to expect new competitors both from the pharmacological and the medical device space. Among the medical device competitors are Terumo Heart, Inc., HeartWare International Inc., AbioMed, Inc., Jarvik Heart, Inc., MicroMed Technology, Inc., SynCardia Systems, Inc., and WorldHeart Corporation in the U.S. and Europe and Berlin Heart GmbH in Europe. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, distribution, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do, while other competitors have different technologies that may achieve broader customer acceptance or better cost structures than our products. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to develop, manufacture and market products more efficiently, at a lower cost and with more market acceptance than we can. In addition, new drugs or other devices may provide additional alternatives to VADs. We expect that the key competitive factors will include the relative speed with which we can: •develop products; •complete clinical testing; •receive regulatory approvals; •achieve market acceptance; and •manufacture and sell commercial quantities of products. Any of the devices of our competitors in clinical trials and in development could prove to be clinically superior, easier to implant, and/or less expensive than current commercialized devices, thereby impacting our market share. Identified quality problems can result in substantial costs and write-downs. FDA regulations require us to track materials used in the manufacture of our products, so that any problems identified in a finished product can easily be traced back to other finished products containing the defective materials. In some instances, identified quality issues require scrapping or expensive rework of the affected lot(s), not just the tested defective product, and could also require us to stop shipments. In addition, because some of our products are used in situations where a malfunction can be life threatening, identified material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or labeling can result in the recall and replacement, generally free of charge, of substantial amounts of product already implanted or otherwise in the marketplace. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may initiate certain voluntary recalls involving our products in the future. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. If we determine that certain of those recalls do not require notification of the FDA, the FDA may disagree with our 21 Table of Contents determinations and require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers, negatively affect our sales, and subject us to additional FDA enforcement actions. Any identified quality issue can therefore both harm our business reputation and result in substantial costs and write-offs, which in either case could materially harm our business and financial results. If we fail to successfully introduce new products, our future growth may suffer. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to develop and introduce a number of new products and product improvements. We also intend to develop new indications for our existing products. For example, we are currently developing updated versions of our HeartMate product line. If we fail to commercialize any of these new products, product improvements and new indications on a timely basis, or if they are not well accepted by the market, our future growth may suffer. If we are unable to successfully complete the pre-clinical studies or clinical trials necessary to support our PMA applications or PMA supplements, our ability to obtain new approvals will be limited. Before submitting a PMA application, we must successfully complete pre-clinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate that the product is safe and effective. Product development, including pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failure at any stage. Furthermore, the data obtained from the trial may be inadequate to support approval of a PMA application. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support approval of a PMA application, for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: •the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold; •patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; •patients do not comply with trial protocols; •patient follow-up is not at the rate we expect; •patients experience adverse side effects; •patients die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our product candidates; •institutional review boards and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol; •third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices or other regulatory requirements; •third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; •regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials; •changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; •the interim or final results of a clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or efficacy; and 22 Table of Contents •the FDA concludes that our trial design is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. The results of pre-clinical studies do not necessarily predict future clinical trial results, and predecessor clinical trial results may not be repeated in subsequent clinical trials. Additionally, the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, or may find the clinical trial design, conduct or results inadequate to prove safety or efficacy, and may require us to pursue additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, which could further delay the approval of our products. If we are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products in our clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market our products. The data we collect from our current clinical trials, our pre-clinical studies and other clinical trials may not be sufficient to support FDA approval. Our inability to protect our proprietary technologies or an infringement of others' patents could harm our competitive position. We rely on patents, trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that any of our pending patent applications will issue. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may deny or significantly narrow claims made under patent applications and the issued patents, if any, may not provide us with commercial protection. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or in any future litigation to enforce our patents in court. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the validity and/or enforceability of our patents. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws, if at all. We may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. A majority of our VAD products generally are not protected by any patents. We rely principally on trade secret protection and, to a lesser extent, patents to protect our rights to the HeartMate product line. We seek to protect our trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. Although it is our policy to require that all employees and consultants sign such agreements, we cannot assure you that every person who gains or has gained access to such information has done or will do so. Moreover, these agreements may be breached and we may not have an adequate remedy. Our products may be found to infringe prior or future patents owned by others. We may need to acquire licenses under patents belonging to others for technology potentially useful or necessary, and such licenses may not be available to us. We could incur substantial costs in defending suits brought against us on such patents or in bringing suits to protect our patents or patents licensed by us against infringement. Since we depend upon distributors, if we lose a distributor or a distributor fails to perform, our operations may be harmed. With the exception of Canada and the larger countries in Europe, we sell our Thoratec and HeartMate product lines in foreign markets through distributors. In addition, we sell our vascular access graft products through the Bard Peripheral Vascular division of C.R. Bard Corporation (which is also one of our competitors) in the U.S. and selected countries in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and through Goodman Co. Ltd. in Japan. 23 Table of Contents To the extent we rely on distributors, our success will depend upon the efforts of others, over whom we may have little or no control. If we lose a distributor or a distributor fails to perform to our expectations, our product sales and results of operations may be harmed. Our non-U.S. sales present special risks. A substantial portion of our total sales occurs outside the U.S. We anticipate that sales outside the U.S. and U.S. export sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our product sales and we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets. Non-U.S. sales are subject to a number of special risks. For example: •we sell some of our products at a lower price outside the U.S.; •sales agreements with foreign customers may be difficult to enforce; •receivables may be difficult to collect through a foreign country's legal system; •foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; •foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; •U.S. export licenses may be difficult to obtain; •intellectual property rights may be (and often are) more difficult to enforce in foreign countries; •terrorist activity or war may interrupt distribution channels or adversely impact our customers or employees; and •fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and adversely affect the profitability, in U.S. dollars, of products sold in foreign markets where payments are made in local currencies. Any of these events could harm our operations or financial results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported sales and earnings. Because some of our international sales are denominated in local currencies and not in U.S. dollars, our reported sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. At present, we use forward foreign currency contracts to protect the gains and losses created by the re-measurement of non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities. However, we do not hedge foreign currency exposures that will arise from future sales. As a result, sales occurring in the future that are denominated in foreign currencies may be translated into U.S. dollars at a less favorable rate than our current exchange rate resulting in reduced revenues and earnings. The long and variable sales and deployment cycles for our VAD systems may cause our product sales and operating results to vary significantly, which increases the risk of an operating loss for any given fiscal period. Our VAD systems have lengthy sales cycles and we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant effort without making a sale. Even after making the decision to purchase our VAD systems, our customers often deploy our products slowly. For example, the length of time between initial contact with potential customers and the purchase of our VAD systems is generally between nine and eighteen months. In addition, cardiac centers that buy the majority of our products are usually led by cardiac surgeons who are heavily recruited by competing centers or by centers looking to increase their profiles. When one of these surgeons moves to a new center we sometimes experience a temporary but significant reduction in purchases by the departed center while it replaces its lead surgeon. As a result, it is difficult for us to predict the quarter in which customers may purchase our VAD systems and our product sales and operating results may vary significantly from 24 Table of Contents quarter to quarter, which increases the risk of an operating loss for us for any given quarter. In particular, sales of our HeartMate XVE for Destination Therapy have been lower than we had originally anticipated, and we cannot predict what level of revenues our HeartMate II product will generate. Since our physician and hospital customers depend on third party reimbursement, if third party payors fail to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for our products, our results of operations will be harmed. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products such as VADs and vascular grafts. This uncertainty could delay or prevent adoption by hospitals of these products in volume. Government and other third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs. Payors are attempting to contain costs by, for example, limiting coverage and the level of reimbursement of new therapeutic products. Payors are also attempting to contain costs by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. To date, a majority of private insurers with whom we have been involved and the CMS have determined to reimburse some portion of the cost of our VADs and vascular graft products, but we cannot estimate what portion of such costs will be reimbursed, and our products may not continue to be approved for reimbursement. In addition, changes in the healthcare system may affect the reimbursability of future products. If coverage were partially or completely reduced, our revenues and results of operations would be harmed. Healthcare laws and regulations may change significantly in the future which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We continuously monitor these developments and modify our operations from time to time as the legislative and regulatory environment changes. Currently, there are a number of pending federal legislative proposals that could substantially change the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and may negatively impact payment rates for our products. We are unable to predict whether any currently circulating congressional proposals will become law or in what form, whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations (including interpretations) will occur in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. The federal government may, however, have greater involvement in the healthcare industry than in prior years, and such greater involvement may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Complying with federal and state regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties. We are directly or indirectly through our clients subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business, including the federal Anti-Kickback Law and similar state anti-kickback laws, the federal False Claims Act, HIPAA and similar state laws addressing privacy and security, state unlawful practice of medicine and fee splitting laws, state certificate of need laws, the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices. The OIG and the Department of Justice have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. 25 Table of Contents If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our operations, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Our risk of being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management's attention from the operation of our business. For a more detailed discussion of the various state and federal regulations to which we are subject see "Business-Government Regulations" and "Business-Third Party Coverage and Reimbursement." We depend on HeartMate II for a significant portion of our revenues. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from sales of our HeartMate II product. While we cannot predict what level of revenues our HeartMate II product will generate, we anticipate that HeartMate II pump sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future, and we anticipate that sales of this product will likely represent an even greater portion of our revenues now that we have received FDA approval for HeartMate II for Destination Therapy. Implementation of our strategy depends on continued sales of our HeartMate II product. Sales of our HeartMate II product are subject to the factors described in this "Risk Factors" section, including, but not limited to, the following: •failure to obtain approval from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities or to comply with government regulations, or the withdrawal of market clearance or other the taking of other enforcement actions; •lack of Destination Therapy procedures conducted by hospitals using our VADs; •lack of acceptance or continued acceptance by physicians; •reliance on specialized suppliers for certain components and materials; •manufacturing problems; •any identified quality problems; •inability to protect our proprietary technologies or an infringement of others' patents; •loss of a distributor or distributor failure to perform; •failure to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors; •special risks associated with non-U.S. sales; •long and variable sales and deployment cycles; •failure by third party payors to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement; •failure to comply with federal and state regulations; and •product liability claims. The outcomes of these and other factors will have a significant impact on our future HeartMate II product sales. 26 Table of Contents Federal and state anti-kickback laws may adversely affect our operations and income. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among healthcare providers. The federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Many state laws also prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. Violation of these laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and/or exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs. While we believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable laws and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the federal and state anti-kickback laws, it is possible that these laws could be interpreted in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, under the DRA, states are encouraged to adopt false claims acts, similar to the federal False Claims Act, which establish liability for submission of fraudulent claims to the State Medicaid program and contain qui tam or whistleblower provisions. States enacting such false claims statutes will receive an increased percentage of any recovery from a State Medicaid judgment or settlement. Adoption of new false claims statutes in states where we operate may impose additional requirements or burdens on us. Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a substantial level of debt in the form of our senior subordinated convertible notes. The terms of our senior subordinated convertible notes do not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including indebtedness senior to the convertible notes. Our current level of indebtedness could, among other things: •make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt; •make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; •reduce funds available for use in our operations; •make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or an increase in interest rates; •impair our ability to incur additional debt because of financial and other restrictive covenants proposed for any such additional debt; or •place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. If we experience a decline in product sales due to any of the factors described in this "Risk Factors" section or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying interest or principal amounts due on our indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, including the convertible notes, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under our other indebtedness. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents We may be unable to repay or repurchase our senior subordinated convertible notes or our other indebtedness. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of our senior subordinated convertible notes will become due and payable. Holders of the convertible notes may also require us to repurchase the convertible notes on May 16 in each of 2011, 2014, 2019, 2024 and 2029. In addition, if certain fundamental changes to our company occur, the holders of the convertible notes may require us to repurchase all or any portion of their convertible notes. We may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the principal amount due at maturity or the repurchase price of the convertible notes. Any such failure would constitute an event of default under the indenture for the senior subordinated convertible notes, which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of any other indebtedness we may have incurred. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversion of the senior subordinated convertible notes or other future issuances of our stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Commencing October 1, 2008, holders of the senior subordinated convertible notes may convert their notes through the final maturity date of the notes into shares of our common stock. If holders elect conversion, we may at our option deliver shares of common stock, pay a holder in cash, or deliver a combination of shares and cash, as determined pursuant to the terms of the notes. The conversion of some or all of the senior subordinated convertible notes into shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, future sales of substantial amounts of our stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Further, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants because the conversion of the convertible notes could depress the price of our common stock. Amortization of our intangible assets, which represent a significant portion of our total assets, will adversely affect our net income and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. A substantial portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, recorded as a result of our merger with Thermo Cardiosystems, Inc. in 2001. We may not receive the recorded value for our intangible assets if we sell or liquidate our business or assets. The material concentration of intangible assets increases the risk of a large charge to earnings if recoverability of these intangible assets is impaired. Product liability claims could damage our reputation and hurt our financial results. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. We maintain a limited amount of product liability insurance. Our insurance policies generally must be renewed on an annual basis. We may not be able to maintain or increase such insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, and such insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us in excess, or outside, of our insurance coverage could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also reduce our ability to obtain physician acceptance of our products or expand our business. 28 Table of Contents The competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry. If we are unable to retain or hire key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel, and attracting and retaining additional highly qualified personnel in these areas. We face intense competition for such personnel, and we may not be able to attract and retain these individuals. We compete for talent with numerous companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations, throughout all our locations. The loss of key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire and retain additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. Our success will depend in large part on the continued services of our research, managerial and manufacturing personnel. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, our closing stock price ranged from $24.74 to $47.08 during the twelve months ended January 1, 2011. The price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including but not limited to the following: •future announcements concerning us or our competitors; •regulatory developments, including ongoing healthcare reform initiatives, enforcement actions bearing on advertising, marketing or sales, and disclosure regarding completed ongoing or future clinical trials; •quarterly variations in operating results, which we have experienced in the past and expect to experience in the future; •introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; •acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; •reaction to estimates of business operations, product development or financial performance made public by our management; •business acquisitions or divestitures; •changes in earnings estimates by analysts; •changes in third party reimbursement practices; •charges, amortization and other financial effects relating to our business; and •fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions. In addition, stock markets in general and the market for shares of healthcare stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, including recently as a result of the global financial crisis. These fluctuations can be unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline below its current price and the market price of our stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. Shareholders often have instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities. Securities class action suits have been filed against us in the past, and if other such suits are filed against us in the future we may incur substantial legal fees and 29 Table of Contents our management's attention and resources may be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. Current global economic conditions could harm our business and liquidity. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of the recent recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These factors have lead to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike. Turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers and suppliers, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. If we make acquisitions or divestitures, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to our business. If we do so, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies and we may not realize the expected benefits of any such acquisition. In addition, acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, any of which could harm our business. We may also sell businesses or assets as part of our strategy or if we receive offers from third parties, such as the 2010 sale of our wholly-owned subsidiary, International Technidyne Corporation. If we do so, we may sell an asset or business for less than its carrying value. The occurrence of a catastrophic disaster or other similar events could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which would require us to cease or curtail operations. We are vulnerable to damage from various types of disasters, including earthquakes, fires, terrorist acts, floods, power losses, communications failures and similar events. For example, in October 1989, a major earthquake that caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities struck near the area in which our Pleasanton, California facility is located. If any such disaster were to occur, we may not be able to operate our business at our facilities, in particular because our premises require FDA approval, which could result in significant delays before we could manufacture products from a replacement facility. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Therefore, any such catastrophe could seriously harm our business and results of operations. We have a history of net losses. We were founded in 1976 and we have had some history of incurring losses from operations. We anticipate that our expenses will increase as a result of research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We could also incur significant additional costs in connection with our business development activities and the development and marketing of new products and indicated uses for our existing products, as well as litigation and share-based compensation costs. Such costs could prevent us from maintaining profitability in future periods. 30 Table of Contents We have experienced rapid growth and changes in our business, and our failure to manage this and any future growth could harm our business. The number of our employees has substantially increased during the past several years. We expect to continue to increase the number of our employees, and our business may suffer if we do not manage and train our new employees effectively. Our product sales may not continue to grow at a rate sufficient to support the costs associated with an increasing number of employees. Any future periods of rapid growth may place significant strains on our managerial, financial and other resources. The rate of any future expansion, in combination with our complex technologies and products, may demand an unusually high level of managerial effectiveness in anticipating, planning, coordinating and meeting our operational needs, as well as the needs of our customers. If we are unable to meet these demands our reputation, revenue and results of operations could be harmed. Revisions to accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws could result in changes to our standard practices and could require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources, especially by senior management. We must follow accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws set by the governing bodies and lawmakers in the U.S. and U.K. where we do business. From time to time, these governing bodies and lawmakers implement new and revised rules and laws. These new and revised accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws may require changes to our financial statements, the composition of our Board of Directors, the responsibility and manner of operation of various board-level committees and the information filed by us with the governing bodies, as well as enforcement of tax laws, against us. Implementing changes required by new standards, requirements or laws likely will require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources. It is impossible to completely predict the impact, if any, on us of future changes to accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws. Our accounting principles that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting principles are as follows: •fair value measurement; •accounting for convertible debt instruments; •accounting for income taxes; •accounting for leases; and •accounting for business combinations. We are subject to taxation in a number of jurisdictions and changes to the corporate tax rate and laws of any of these jurisdictions could increase the amount of corporate taxes we have to pay. We pay taxes principally in the U.S., U.K., Germany and France and these tax jurisdictions have in the past and may in the future make changes to their corporate tax rates and other tax laws, which changes could increase our future tax obligations. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in states with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities, primarily related to our intercompany transfer pricing. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the 31 Table of Contents adequacy of our provision for income taxes and our reserves for potential adjustments, including tax credits and other tax benefits that can be challenged under audit by various taxing authorities resulting in potential reduction in the amount of credits or other benefits eventually realized. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Future levels of research and development spending, capital investment and export sales may impact our entitlement to related tax credits and benefits which have the effect of lowering our tax rate. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals and biomaterials could be time consuming and costly. Manufacturing and research and development of our products require the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biomaterials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. We could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts or harm our operating results. Anti-takeover defenses in our governing documents could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our governing documents could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: •Our Articles of Incorporation allow our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without shareholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. •We have a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill," which would make it difficult for someone to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could delay, prevent or allow our Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if the proposed transaction was favored by a majority of our independent shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 