Item 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses face many risks. The risks described below are what we believe to be the material risks facing our company, however, they may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. Investors should consider the following risks, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, such as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any public announcements we make from time to time. If we fail to obtain approval from the FDA and from foreign regulatory authorities, we cannot market and sell our products under development in the U.S. and in other countries, and if we fail to comply with government regulations, including FDA Quality System Regulations, or our products experience certain adverse events, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may withdraw our market clearance or take other enforcement action. Before we can market new products in the U.S., we must obtain PMA approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA. This process is lengthy and uncertain. In the U.S., one must obtain clearance from the FDA of a 510(k) pre-market notification or approval of a more extensive submission known as a PMA application. If the FDA concludes that any of our products do not meet the requirements to obtain clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”), then we will be required to file a PMA application. The process for a PMA application is lengthy, expensive and typically requires extensive pre-clinical and clinical trial data. 15 Table of Contents We may not obtain clearance of a 510(k) notification or approval of a PMA application with respect to any of our products on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to obtain timely clearance or approval for our products, we will not be able to market and sell them, thereby harming our ability to generate sales. The FDA also may limit the claims that we can make about our products. We also may be required to obtain clearance of a 510(k) notification, a new PMA, or a PMA Supplement from the FDA before we can market products which have already been cleared, but which have since been modified or we subsequently wish to market for new disease indications. In addition, our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and various other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Government regulations and foreign requirements specific to medical devices are wide ranging and govern, among other things, design, development, manufacture, testing, labeling, storage, marketing, distribution, promotion, record keeping, and approval or clearance. The FDA requires us to adhere to Quality System Regulations (“QSR”), which include production design controls, testing, quality control, labeling, packaging, sterilization, and storage and documentation procedures. The FDA may at any time inspect our facilities to determine whether we have adequate compliance with the FDA’s QSR and other regulatory requirements. Compliance with QSR for medical devices is difficult and costly. In addition, we may not be found compliant as a result of future changes in, or interpretations of, regulations by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Following an inspection of our facilities, ITC received in January 2009 an FDA Form 483 that listed a significant number of observations relating to the adequacy of ITC’s quality system. We are in the process of preparing a response to address each of the FDA’s concerns. If we do not adequately address the FDA’s concerns, or we do not maintain compliance with the FDA’s QSR in the future, the FDA may issue untitled letters, warning letters, impose fines, injunctions, consent decrees, civil or criminal penalties, withdraw marketing clearance or approvals, require product recalls, or take other enforcement action against ITC, which in each case would harm our business. Sales of our products outside the U.S. are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approvals from foreign countries may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for foreign licensing may differ from FDA requirements. In any event, if we fail to obtain the necessary approvals to sell any of our products in a foreign country, or if any obtained approval is revoked or suspended, we will not be able to sell those products there. The federal, state and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations and policies of regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions. Enforcement actions could include product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals, and civil and criminal penalties, which in each case would harm our business. If hospitals do not conduct Destination Therapy procedures using our VADs, market opportunities for our product will be diminished. The use of certain of our VADs as long-term therapy in patients who are not candidates for heart transplantation (i.e., Destination Therapy patients) was approved by the FDA in 2002, and was approved for reimbursement by CMS in late 2003. The number of Destination Therapy procedures actually performed depends on many factors, many of which are out of our direct control, including: • the number of CMS sites approved for Destination Therapy; • the clinical outcomes of Destination Therapy procedures; • cardiologists’ and referring physicians’ education regarding, and their commitment to, Destination Therapy; 16 Table of Contents • the economics of the Destination Therapy procedure for individual hospitals, which include the costs of the VAD and related pre- and post-operative procedures and their reimbursement; • the impact of changes in reimbursement rates on the timing of purchases of VADs for Destination Therapy; and • the economics for individual hospitals of not conducting a Destination Therapy procedure, including the costs and related reimbursements of long-term hospitalization. The different outcomes of these and other factors, and their timing, will have a significant impact on our future Cardiovascular product sales. Physicians may not accept or continue to accept our current products and products under development. The success of our current and future products will require acceptance or continued acceptance by cardiovascular and vascular surgeons, and other medical professionals. Such acceptance will depend on clinical results and the conclusion by these professionals that our products are safe, cost-effective and acceptable methods of treatment. Even if the safety and efficacy of our future products are established, physicians may elect not to use them for a number of reasons. These reasons could include the high cost of our VAD systems, restrictions on insurance coverage, unfavorable reimbursement from health care payors, or use of alternative therapies. Also, economic, psychological, ethical and other concerns may limit general acceptance of our ventricular assist, graft and other products. We rely on specialized suppliers for certain components and materials in our products and alternative suppliers may not be available. We depend on a number of custom-designed components and materials supplied by other companies including, in some cases, single source suppliers for components, instruments and materials used in our VAD products and blood testing products. For example, single source suppliers currently manufacture and supply our ProTime and Hemoglobin instruments and the heart valves used in our HeartMate XVE product. The suppliers of our ProTime and Hemoglobin products are located in China and Germany, respectively. We do not have long-term written agreements with most of our vendors and receive components from these vendors on a purchase order basis only. If we need alternative sources for key raw materials or component parts for any reason, such alternative sources may not be available and our inventory may not be sufficient to fill orders before we find alternative suppliers or begin manufacturing these components or materials ourselves. Cessation or interruption of sales of circulatory support products or our point-of-care products may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Alternative suppliers, if available, may not agree to supply us. In addition, FDA approval may be required before using new suppliers or manufacturing our own components or materials which can take additional time to procure. Existing suppliers could also become subject to an FDA enforcement action, which could also disrupt our supplies. If alternative suppliers are not available, we may not have the expertise or resources necessary to produce these materials or component parts internally. Because of the long product development cycle in our business, suppliers may discontinue components upon which we rely before the end of life of our products. In addition, the timing of the discontinuation may not allow us time to develop and obtain FDA approval for a replacement component before we exhaust our inventory of the legacy component. If suppliers discontinue components on which we rely, we may have to: • pay premium prices to our suppliers to keep their production lines open or to obtain alternative suppliers; • buy substantial inventory to last through the scheduled end of life of our product, or through such time that we will have a replacement product developed and approved by the FDA; or • stop shipping the product in which the legacy component is used once our inventory of the discontinued component is exhausted. Any of these interruptions in the supply of our materials could result in substantial reductions in product sales and increases in our production costs. 17 Table of Contents We may encounter problems manufacturing our products. We may encounter difficulties manufacturing products in quantities sufficient to meet demand. We do not have experience in manufacturing some of our products in the commercial quantities that might be required if we receive FDA approval of those products and indications currently under development, including the HeartMate II. If we have difficulty manufacturing any of our products, our sales may prove lower than would otherwise be the case and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Identified quality problems can result in substantial costs and write-downs. FDA regulations require us to track materials used in the manufacture of our products, so that any problems identified in a finished product can easily be traced back to other finished products containing the defective materials. In some instances, identified quality issues require scrapping or expensive rework of the affected lot(s), not just the tested defective product, and could also require us to stop shipments. In addition, because some of our products are used in situations where a malfunction can be life threatening, identified quality issues can result in the recall and replacement, generally free of charge, of substantial amounts of product already implanted or otherwise in the marketplace. Any identified quality issue can therefore both harm our business reputation and result in substantial costs and write-offs, which in either case could materially harm our business and financial results. If we fail to successfully introduce new products, our future growth may suffer. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to develop and introduce a number of new products and product improvements. We also intend to develop new indications for our existing products. For example, we are currently developing updated versions of our HeartMate and point-of-care blood diagnostics products. If we fail to commercialize any of these new products, product improvements and new indications on a timely basis, or if they are not well accepted by the market, our future growth may suffer. Our inability to protect our proprietary technologies or an infringement of others’ patents could harm our competitive position. We rely on patents, trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that any of our pending patent applications will issue. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may deny or significantly narrow claims made under patent applications and the issued patents, if any, may not provide us with commercial protection. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or in any future litigation to enforce our patents in court. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the validity and/or enforceability of our patents. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws, if at all. We may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. A majority of our VAD products generally are not protected by any patents. We rely principally on trade secret protection and, to a lesser extent, patents to protect our rights to the HeartMate product line. We rely principally on patents to protect our coagulation testing equipment, skin incision devices, HEMOCHRON disposable cuvettes, IRMA analyzer, IRMA disposable cartridges, AVOXimeter and Hgb Pro disposable test strips. We seek to protect our trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. Although it is our policy to require that all employees and consultants sign such agreements, we cannot assure you that every person who gains or has gained access to such information has done or will do so. Moreover, these agreements may be breached and we may not have an adequate remedy. 18 Table of Contents Our products may be found to infringe prior or future patents owned by others. We may need to acquire licenses under patents belonging to others for technology potentially useful or necessary, and such licenses may not be available to us. We could incur substantial costs in defending suits brought against us on such patents or in bringing suits to protect our patents or patents licensed by us against infringement. Our future disposable cuvette test product sales by ITC could be affected by changes in monitoring requirements for medical procedures. ITC product sales are generated by medical procedures that require monitoring of coagulation and blood gas parameters done in cardiovascular operating rooms and cardiac catheterization labs. The sales of our disposable test products could decline if there were a significant reduction in those medical procedures, which could harm our ITC business. Since we depend upon distributors, if we lose a distributor or a distributor fails to perform, our operations may be harmed. With the exception of Canada and the larger countries in Europe, we sell our Thoratec and HeartMate product lines in foreign markets through distributors. In addition, we sell our vascular access graft products through the Bard Peripheral Vascular division of C.R. Bard Corporation (which is also a competitor of ours) in the U.S. and selected countries in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and through Goodman Co. Ltd. in Japan. Substantially all of the international operations and a large portion of the alternate site domestic operations of ITC are conducted through distributors. For the year ended January 3, 2009, 64% of ITC’s total product sales were through distributors. To the extent we rely on distributors, our success will depend upon the efforts of others, over whom we may have little or no control. If we lose a distributor or a distributor fails to perform to our expectations, our product sales and results of operations may be harmed. If we fail to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, our product sales or operating results may be harmed. Competition from pharmaceutical companies, medical device companies and medical device divisions of health care companies , is intense and is expected to increase. In our Cardiovascular division, we continue to expect new competitors. In June 2007, Ventracor Limited began a new clinical trial for BTT and DT for its Ventrassist device. During the third quarter of 2008 Ventracor Limited announced that it had enrolled 122 patients in the BTT trial and 54 patients in the DT trial and filed the first module of its PMA. In addition, in 2008, HeartWare began a clinical trial for BTT for its HVAD device with enrollment occurring at two centers. HeartWare, also announced in January 2009, that it received CE mark approval for the HVAD device. In 2008, Terumo Heart, Inc. began a clinical trial for BTT for its DuraHeart device. Our incumbent competitors include AbioMed, Inc., Jarvik Heart, Inc., MicroMed Technology, Inc., SynCardia Systems, Inc., and WorldHeart Corporation in the U.S. and Europe and Berlin Heart GmbH in Europe. Principal competitors in the hospital coagulation and blood gas monitoring equipment market include the Cardiac Surgery Division of Medtronic, Inc., the Diagnostic Division of Abbott Laboratories, Instrumentation Laboratory Company and Radiometer A/S. Our primary competitor in the skin incision device market is Becton Dickinson and Company. Competitors in the alternate site point-of-care diagnostics market include Inverness Medical Innovation, Inc. and Roche Diagnostics. Some of our competitors, especially those of our ITC division, have substantially greater financial, technical, distribution, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do, while other competitors have different technologies that may achieve broader customer acceptance or better cost structures than our products. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to develop, manufacture and market products more efficiently, at a lower cost and with more market acceptance than we can. In addition, new drugs or other devices may reduce the need for VADs. We expect that the key competitive factors will include the relative speed with which we can: • develop products; • complete clinical testing; • receive regulatory approvals; • achieve market acceptance; and • manufacture and sell commercial quantities of products. 19 Table of Contents Large medical device companies dominate the markets in which ITC competes. We expect that any growth in this market will come from expanding our market share at the expense of other companies and from testing being shifted away from central laboratories to the hospital and alternate site point-of-care. However, this market segment is very competitive and includes the following potential drivers: • New drug therapies under development may not require the intense monitoring of a patient’s coagulation that the current anti-coagulation drug of choice (Heparin) requires. • New competitors might enter the market with broader test menus. Any of the devices of our competitors in clinical trials and in development could prove to be clinically superior, easier to implant, and/or less expensive than current commercialized devices, thereby impacting Thoratec’s market share. Our non-U.S. sales present special risks. A substantial portion of our total sales occurs outside the U.S. We anticipate that sales outside the U.S. and U.S. export sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our product sales and we intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets. Non-U.S. sales are subject to a number of special risks. For example: • we sell some of our products at a lower price outside the U.S.; • sales agreements with foreign customers may be difficult to enforce; • receivables may be difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; • U.S. export licenses may be difficult to obtain; • intellectual property rights may be (and often are) more difficult to enforce in foreign countries; • terrorist activity or war may interrupt distribution channels or adversely impact our customers or employees; and • fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and adversely affect the profitability, in U.S. dollars, of products sold in foreign markets where payments are made in local currencies. Any of these events could harm our operations or financial results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported sales and earnings. Because some of our international sales are denominated in local currencies and not in U.S. dollars, our reported sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. At present, we use forward foreign currency contracts to protect the gains and losses created by the re-measurement of non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities. However, we do not hedge foreign currency exposures that will arise from future sales. As a result, sales occurring in the future that are denominated in foreign currencies may be translated into U.S. dollars at a less favorable rate than our current exchange rate resulting in reduced revenues and earnings. 20 Table of Contents The long and variable sales and deployment cycles for our VAD systems may cause our product sales and operating results to vary significantly, which increases the risk of an operating loss for any given fiscal period. Our VAD systems have lengthy sales cycles and we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant effort without making a sale. Even after making the decision to purchase our VAD systems, our customers often deploy our products slowly. For example, the length of time between initial contact with potential customers and the purchase of our VAD systems is generally between nine and eighteen months. In addition, cardiac centers that buy the majority of our products are usually led by cardiac surgeons who are heavily recruited by competing centers or by centers looking to increase their profiles. When one of these surgeons moves to a new center we sometimes experience a temporary but significant reduction in purchases by the departed center while it replaces its lead surgeon. As a result, it is difficult for us to predict the quarter in which customers may purchase our VAD systems and our product sales and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which increases the risk of an operating loss for us for any given quarter. In particular, sales of our VADs for Destination Therapy have been lower than we had originally anticipated, and we cannot predict when, if ever, sales of our VADs for this indication will generate the level of revenues expected. Since our physician and hospital customers depend on third party reimbursement, if third party payors fail to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for our products, our results of operations will be harmed. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products such as VADs and vascular grafts. This uncertainty could delay or prevent adoption by hospitals of these products in volume. Government and other third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs. Payors are attempting to contain costs by, for example, limiting coverage and the level of reimbursement of new therapeutic products. Payors are also attempting to contain costs by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications other than those for which the FDA has granted marketing approval. To date, a majority of private insurers with whom we have been involved and the CMS have determined to reimburse some portion of the cost of our VADs and our diagnostic and vascular graft products, but we cannot estimate what portion of such costs will be reimbursed, and our products may not continue to be approved for reimbursement. In addition, changes in the health care system may affect the reimbursability of future products. If coverage were partially or completely reduced, our revenues and results of operations would be harmed. Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a substantial level of debt in the form of our senior subordinated convertible notes. The terms of our senior subordinated convertible notes do not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including indebtedness senior to the convertible notes. Our current level of indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • reduce funds available for use in our operations; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or an increase in interest rates; • impair our ability to incur additional debt because of financial and other restrictive covenants proposed for any such additional debt; or • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. 21 Table of Contents If we experience a decline in product sales due to any of the factors described in this “Risk Factors” section or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying interest or principal amounts due on our indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, including the convertible notes, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under our other indebtedness. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to repay or repurchase our senior subordinated convertible notes or our other indebtedness. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of our senior subordinated convertible notes will become due and payable. Holders of the convertible notes may also require us to repurchase the convertible notes on May 16 in each of 2011, 2014, 2019, 2024 and 2029. In addition, if certain fundamental changes to our company occur, the holders of the convertible notes may require us to repurchase all or any portion of their convertible notes. We may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the principal amount due at maturity or the repurchase price of the convertible notes. Any such failure would constitute an event of default under the indenture for the senior subordinated convertible notes, which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of any other indebtedness we may have incurred. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversion of the senior subordinated convertible notes or other future issuances of our stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Commencing October 1, 2008, holders of the senior subordinated convertible notes may convert their notes through the final maturity date of the notes into shares of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of the senior subordinated convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, future sales of substantial amounts of our stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Sales of our shares and the potential for such sales could cause our stock price to decline. Further, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants because the conversion of the convertible notes could depress the price of our common stock. Amortization of our intangible assets, which represent a significant portion of our total assets, will adversely affect our net income and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. A substantial portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, recorded as a result of our merger with Thermo Cardiosystems, Inc. (“TCA”) in 2001. We may not receive the recorded value for our intangible assets if we sell or liquidate our business or assets. The material concentration of intangible assets increases the risk of a large charge to earnings if recoverability of these intangible assets is impaired. For example, in the first quarter of 2004, we completed an assessment of the final results from the feasibility clinical trial for the Aria CABG graft, which was ongoing through fiscal 2003. Based on the clinical trial results, we decided not to devote additional resources to development of the Aria graft. Upon the decision to discontinue product development, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $9 million as of January 3, 2004 to write off purchased intangible assets related to the Aria graft. In the event of another such charge to net income, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Product liability claims could damage our reputation and hurt our financial results. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. We maintain a limited amount of product liability insurance. Our insurance policies generally must be renewed on an annual basis. We may not be able to maintain or increase such insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, and such insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us in excess, or outside, of our insurance coverage could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also reduce our ability to obtain physician acceptance of our products or expand our business. 22 Table of Contents The competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in our industry. If we are unable to retain or hire key personnel, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing, managerial and financial personnel, and attracting and retaining additional highly qualified personnel in these areas. We face intense competition for such personnel, and we may not be able to attract and retain these individuals. We compete for talent with numerous companies, as well as universities and nonprofit research organizations, throughout all our locations. The loss of key personnel for any reason or our inability to hire and retain additional qualified personnel in the future could prevent us from sustaining or growing our business. Our success will depend in large part on the continued services of our research, managerial and manufacturing personnel. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, our closing stock price ranged from $13.09 to $32.49 during the twelve months ended January 3, 2009. The price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the following: • future announcements concerning us or our competitors; • regulatory developments, enforcement actions bearing on advertising, marketing or sales, and disclosure regarding completed ongoing or future clinical trials; • quarterly variations in operating results, which we have experienced in the past and expect to experience in the future; • introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • acquisition or loss of significant customers, distributors or suppliers; • reaction to estimates of business operations, product development or financial performance made public by our management; • business acquisitions or divestitures; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • changes in third party reimbursement practices; • charges, amortization and other financial effects relating to our business; and • fluctuations in the economy, world political events or general market conditions, such as the current economic recession. In addition, stock markets in general and the market for shares of health care stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, especially in the past several months as a result of the current global financial crisis. These fluctuations can be unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline below its current price and the market price of our stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. Shareholders often have instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. Securities class action suits have been filed against us in the past, and if other such suits are filed against us in the future we may incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources may be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. 23 Table of Contents Current global economic conditions could harm our business and liquidity. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2009. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These factors have lead to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers and suppliers, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. If we make acquisitions or divestitures, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to our business such as our proposed acquisition of HeartWare. If we do so, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies and we may not realize the expected benefits of any such acquisition. In addition, acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, any of which could harm our business. We may also sell businesses or assets as part of our strategy or if we receive offers from third parties. If we do so, we may sell an asset or business for less than its carrying value. The occurrence of a catastrophic disaster or other similar events could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which would require us to cease or curtail operations. We are vulnerable to damage from various types of disasters, including earthquakes, fires, terrorist acts, floods, power losses, communications failures and similar events. For example, in October 1989, a major earthquake that caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities struck near the area in which our Pleasanton, California facility is located. If any such disaster were to occur, we may not be able to operate our business at our facilities, in particular because our premises require FDA approval, which could result in significant delays before we could manufacture products from a replacement facility. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Therefore, any such catastrophe could seriously harm our business and results of operations. We have a history of net losses. We were founded in 1976 and we have had some history of incurring losses from operations. We anticipate that our expenses will increase as a result of increased pre-clinical and clinical testing, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We could also incur significant additional costs in connection with our business development activities and the development and marketing of new products and indicated uses for our existing products, as well as litigation and share-based compensation costs. Such costs could prevent us from maintaining profitability in future periods. We have experienced rapid growth and changes in our business, and our failure to manage this and any future growth could harm our business. The number of our employees has substantially increased during the past several years. We expect to continue to increase the number of our employees, and our business may suffer if we do not manage and train our new employees effectively. Our product sales may not continue to grow at a rate sufficient to support the costs associated with an increasing number of employees. Any future periods of rapid growth may place significant strains on our managerial, financial and other resources. The rate of any future expansion, in combination with our complex technologies and products, may demand an unusually high level of managerial effectiveness in anticipating, planning, coordinating and meeting our operational needs, as well as the needs of our customers. If we are unable to meet these demands. our reputation, revenue and results of operations could be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Revisions to accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws could result in changes to our standard practices and could require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources, especially by senior management. We must follow accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws set by the governing bodies and lawmakers in the U.S. and U.K. where we do business. From time to time, these governing bodies and lawmakers implement new and revised rules and laws. These new and revised accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws may require changes to our financial statements, the composition of our board of directors, the responsibility and manner of operation of various board-level committees, the information filed by us with the governing bodies and enforcement of tax laws, against us. Implementing changes required by new standards, requirements or laws likely will require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources. It is impossible to completely predict the impact, if any, on us of future changes to accounting standards, financial reporting and corporate governance requirements and tax laws. Our accounting principles that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting principles are as follows: • accounting for stock-based compensation; • fair value measurement (including convertible debt instruments); • accounting for income taxes; and • accounting for business combinations and related goodwill. It is possible that changes in the application of certain accounting principles may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations such as our adoption of FASB issued FSP Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) 14-1, Accounting For Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which alters the accounting treatment for convertible debt instruments and allows for either mandatory or optional cash settlements upon conversion. FSP APB 14-1, will impact the accounting associated with our senior subordinated convertible notes recorded at a book value of $143.8 million. FSP APB 14-1 requires the issuer to recognize additional (non-cash) interest expense based on the market rate for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature. This FSP APB 14-1 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years and be applied retrospectively to all periods presented and will be recognized as of the beginning of the first quarter of 2009. We are subject to taxation in a number of jurisdictions and changes to the corporate tax rate and laws of any of these jurisdictions could increase the amount of corporate taxes we have to pay. We pay taxes principally in the U.S., U.K., Germany and France and these tax jurisdictions have in the past and may in the future make changes to their corporate tax rates and other tax laws, which changes could increase our future tax obligations. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in states with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities, primarily related to our intercompany transfer pricing. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and our reserves for potential adjustments, including tax credits and other tax benefits that can be challenged under audit by various taxing authorities resulting in potential reduction in the amount of credits or other benefits eventually realized. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Future levels of research and development spending, capital investment and export sales may impact our entitlement to related tax credits and benefits which have the effect of lowering our tax rate. 25 Table of Contents Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals and biomaterials could be time consuming and costly. Manufacturing and research and development of our products require the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biomaterials. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. We could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts or harm our operating results. Anti-takeover defenses in our governing documents could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our governing documents could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: • Our Articles of Incorporation allow our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without shareholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. • We have a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” which would make it difficult for someone to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could delay, prevent or allow our Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if the proposed transaction was favored by a majority of our independent shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 