Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information provided in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our business, operations and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies 6 in our industry or business in general, such as competitive conditions, may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon independent commissioned sales agents who have direct relationships with our customers. A substantial portion of our business is originated by our network of independent sales agents. Most of these sales agents work with us on an exclusive basis pursuant to contracts with terms ranging from one to five years. However, certain agent contracts are terminable upon thirty day notice by either party. These contracts typically contain non-compete and non-solicitation provisions. Notwithstanding these provisions we may not be able to restrict the ability of a former agent from competing with Sunteck following termination. As a result, if sales representatives terminate their affiliation with us, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are dependent on third party capacity providers. We do not own trucks or other transportation equipment and rely on third party capacity providers, including independent owner operators, unrelated trucking companies, railroads and air cargo carriers to transport freight for our customers. We compete with motor carriers and other third parties for the services of independent owner operators and other third party capacity providers. A significant decrease in available capacity provided by either our independent owner operators or other third party capacity providers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and revenue. Decreased demand for transportation services could adversely affect our operating results. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical financial results as a result of slowdowns in economic activity, the business cycles of customers, price increases by capacity providers, interest rate fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. Certain of our third party capacity providers can be expected to charge higher prices to cover increased operating expenses, and our operating income may decline if we are unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of these higher transportation costs. If a slowdown in economic activity or a downturn in our customers’ business cycles causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have limited marketing and sales capabilities and must make sales in fragmented markets. Our future success depends, to a great extent, on our ability to successfully market our services through our network of independent agents. Our sales and marketing capabilities are more limited than many of our competitors who have captive internal sales forces and greater financial resources than us. We cannot assure you that any marketing and sales efforts undertaken on our behalf will be successful or will result in any significant sales. Our industry is intensely competitive, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results. All our markets are intensely competitive and numerous companies offer services that compete with our services. We anticipate that competition for our services will continue to increase. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, sales and marketing resources and experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with our competitors in effecting our business expansion plans. 7 We depend on the continued services of our president. Our future success depends, in part, on the continuing efforts of our president, Harry Wachtel, who conceived our strategic plan and is responsible for executing that plan. The loss of Mr. Wachtel would adversely affect our business. We do not have any term “key man” insurance on Mr. Wachtel. If we lose the services of Mr. Wachtel, our business, operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We must attract and retain qualified personnel. As we implement our business growth strategy, significant demands will be placed on our managerial, financial and other resources. One of the keys to our future success will be our ability to attract and retain highly qualified marketing, sales and administrative personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in these areas is intense and we will be competing for their services with companies that have substantially greater resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, attract and retain personnel with skills and experience necessary and relevant to the future operations of our business. Our inability to retain or attract qualified personnel in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may require additional financing in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms. Depending on our ability to generate revenues, we may require additional funds to expand our business operations and for working capital and general corporate purposes. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financings may involve restrictive covenants that limit our ability to make decisions that we believe will be in our best interests. In the event we cannot obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us when required, our ability to expand operations may be materially adversely affected. Our principal stockholders have substantial control over our affairs. As of March 21, 2008, our president, Harry Wachtel, owned approximately 15.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Further, James T. Martin, Kinderhook Partners, LP, Wasatch Advisors, Inc. and Morehead Opportunity Fund,, LP, four significant stockholders, owned approximately 19.3%, 18.5%, 9.9% and 6.7%, respectively, of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, either Mr. Wachtel, Mr. Martin or Kinderhook Partners, LP could assert control over our affairs, including the election of directors and any proposals regarding a sale of the company or its assets or a merger. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination which you, as a stockholder, may otherwise view favorably. Our stock price is volatile and could be further affected by events not within our control. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. For the 52-week period ended March 21, 2008, our closing stock price has ranged from $1.05 to $0.62. On March 21, 2008, our closing stock price was $0.75. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and will continue to be subject to: • volatility in the trading markets generally; • significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; and 8 • announcements regarding our business or the business of our competitors. Statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market as a whole has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market price for the securities of many small-cap companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the possible issuance of shares of our common stock as a result of the exercise of outstanding options. We have granted options covering approximately 12.8 million shares of our common stock. As a result of the actual or potential sale of these shares into the market, our common stock price may decrease. Future sales of our common stock may adversely affect our common stock price. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of common stock or if we issue a large number of shares in connection with future acquisitions or financings, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell a large number of shares of common stock could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Some provisions in our charter documents and bylaws may have anti-takeover effects. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, with the result that it may deter potential suitors. For example, our board of directors is authorized, without action of the stockholders, to issue authorized but unissued common and preferred stock. The existence of authorized but unissued common and preferred stock enables us to discourage or to make it more difficult to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. We have agreed to limitations on the potential liability of our directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, in general, directors will not be personally liable for monetary damages to the company or our stockholders for a breach of fiduciary duty. Although this limitation of liability does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission, the presence of these provisions in the certificate of incorporation could prevent us from recovering monetary damages. Liquidity on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board is limited, and we may be unable to obtain listing of our common stock on a more liquid market. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a national securities exchange such as the American or New York Stock Exchanges and the Nasdaq World or Capital Markets. We do not currently meet the minimum trading price requirement for listing on any of these exchanges and there is uncertainty that we will ever be accepted for a listing on any of these exchanges. 9 Our common stock has been thinly traded, and the public market may provide little or no liquidity for holders of our common stock. Purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. There is currently a limited volume of trading in our common stock, and on many days there has been no trading activity at all. Due to the historically low trading price of our common stock, many brokerage firms may be unwilling to effect transactions in our common stock, particularly because low-priced securities are subject to an SEC rule that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell low-priced securities (generally those below $5.00 per share). We cannot predict when or whether investor interest in our common stock might lead to an increase in its market price or the development of a more active trading market or how liquid that market might become. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 