ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Failure to complete the proposed merger could negatively impact our stock price, future business and financial results. On June 14, 2006, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, with Philips Holding USA Inc., and Jumbo Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Philips Holding. The merger agreement provides that Jumbo Acquisition Corp. will merge with and into Intermagnetics, with Intermagnetics surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Philips Holding and an indirect subsidiary of Koninklijke Philips Electronics, N.V. The merger is subject to regulatory and stockholder approval, and certain other closing conditions. We expect to complete the transaction in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2006 and when the transaction is completed, we will no longer be a publicly traded company. However, there is no assurance that the merger agreement and the merger will be approved by our stockholders, and there is no assurance that the other conditions to the completion of the merger will be satisfied. If the merger is not completed, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: • Philips Medical Systems currently accounts for half of our sales. If the merger is not completed our relationship with Philips could be adversely affected; • under certain circumstances, if the merger is not completed, we may be required to pay Philips a termination fee of $38,970,000; • the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a negative perception by the stock market of us generally and a decline in the market price of our common stock; • certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, are payable by us whether or not the merger is completed; • there may be substantial disruption to our business and a distraction of our management and employees from day-to-day operations, because matters related to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; • our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain key employees or attract replacements; and • we would continue to face the risks that we currently face as an independent company. 16 Back to ContentsWe may be subject to significant litigation. We do business in the critical healthcare setting, and may from time to time be subject to significant litigation arising from actual or alleged injuries to patients. Litigation is by its nature costly and may divert management’s attention, either of which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if any current or future litigation is determined adversely, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. On June 16, 2006, and June 20, 2006, two putative class action complaints were filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, Albany County, naming Intermagnetics and its directors (and, in one complaint, Royal Philips) as defendants. The actions, Mohamed Farouk Gani v. Intermagnetics General Corporation, et al., No. 3884-06, and Thomas Scionti v. Intermagnetics General Corporation, et al., No. 3946-06, challenge the merger agreement and related transactions. The complaints allege that the directors of Intermagnetics breached their fiduciary duties, including by failing to publicly announce an open bidding process or otherwise seek additional offers to acquire Intermagnetics, and by failing to provide full disclosure of certain material financial information. The complaints also allege that Intermagnetics (and, in one of the complaints, Philips) aided and abetted these alleged fiduciary violations. The plaintiffs seek equitable relief, including an injunction preventing us from proceeding with or consummating the merger. Intermagnetics believes that these allegations are without merit and intends to contest them vigorously. We are subject to risks associated with acquisitions. An important aspect of our growth strategy may include making acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, services, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, overvaluation of the acquired companies, potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies and lack of acceptance by the marketplace of the acquired companies’ products or services. Moreover, we may face exposure to litigation and other unanticipated contingent liabilities of the acquired companies. Any of these problems or factors could result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks of new laws related to health care. Our customer base includes original equipment manufacturers of medical diagnostic equipment, imaging centers, hospitals and other healthcare providers. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws, including, but not limited to the Medicare Modernization Act and the Deficit Reduction Act, may have a significant effect on our costs of doing business and the amount of reimbursement we and our customers receive from both government and third-party payers. In addition, economic forces, regulatory influences and political initiatives are subjecting the health care industry to fundamental changes. Federal, state and local government representatives are likely to continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methods. We expect ongoing public debate on these issues. Any of these efforts or reforms could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. 17 Back to ContentsA significant portion of our revenue currently comes from a small number of customers, and any decrease in revenue from these customers could harm our operating results. We depend on a small number of customers for a large portion of our business, and changes in our customers’ orders may have a significant impact on our operating results. If a major customer significantly reduces the amount of business it does with us, there would be an adverse impact on our operating results. Although we have broadened our customer base over the past several fiscal years, we will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of major customers. Because it often takes significant time to replace lost business, it is likely that our operating results would be adversely affected if one or more of our major customers were to cancel, delay or reduce significant orders in the future. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable in connection with the products we sell to our major customers. Although our major customers are large corporations, if one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise be unable to pay for our products, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Competition from existing or new companies could cause us to experience downward pressure on prices, fewer customer orders, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share. Our MRI and Medical Device segments operate in a highly competitive industry. We are subject to competition based upon product design, performance, pricing, quality and service. While we try to maintain competitive pricing on those products that are directly comparable to products manufactured by others, in many instances our products will conform to more exacting specifications and carry a higher price than analogous products manufactured by others. Our competitors include divisions of much larger, more diversified organizations as well as a number of specialized companies. Some of them have greater resources and larger staffs than we have. Many of our OEM customers and potential OEM customers have the capacity to design and manufacture internally the products we manufacture for them. We face competition from research and product development groups and the manufacturing operations of our current and potential customers, who continually evaluate the benefits of internal research and product development and manufacturing versus outsourcing. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are the sole source for our components, and our production would be substantially curtailed if these suppliers are not able to meet our demands and alternative sources are not available. We order raw materials and components denominated in U.S. Dollars to complete our customers’ orders, and some of these raw materials and components are ordered from sole-source suppliers. Although we work with our customers and suppliers to minimize the impact of shortages in raw materials and components, we sometimes experience short-term adverse effects due to price fluctuations and delayed shipments. If a significant shortage of raw materials or components were to occur, we might have to delay shipments or pay premium pricing, which could adversely affect our operating results. In some cases, supply shortages of particular components will substantially curtail production of products using these components. We are not always able to pass on price increases to our customers. Accordingly, some raw material and component price increases could adversely affect our operating results. 18 Back to Contents Uncertainties and adverse trends affecting the medical device industry, including the markets of any of our major customers may adversely affect our operating results. Our business depends primarily on the MRI market, which is subject to rapid technological change, pricing and margin pressure. In addition, changes in government policy relating to reimbursement for the purchase and use of medical capital equipment could also affect our sales. Our delay or inability to obtain any necessary United States or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our new products could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products in the Medical Device segment are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. A delay or inability to obtain any necessary United States or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our new products could have a material adverse effect on our business. The process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. There is a further risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified. Medical devices cannot be marketed in the United States without clearance or approval by the FDA. Medical devices sold in the United States must also be manufactured in compliance with FDA rules and regulations, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. Moreover, medical devices are required to comply with FDA regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. States may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices. Medical device products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. Loss of any of our key personnel could hurt our business because of their industry experience and their technological expertise. We operate in a highly competitive industry and depend on the services of our key senior executives and our technological experts. The loss of the services of one or several of our key employees or an inability to attract, train and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically engineering and operations personnel, could result in the loss of customers or otherwise inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. Our success depends on new product development. We have continuing programs designed to develop new products and to enhance and improve our products. We are expending significant resources on the development of new products in all of our segments. The successful development of our products and product enhancements are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: • unanticipated delays; • access to capital; • budget overruns; • technical problems; and 19 Back to Contents • other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products, including, for example, changes requested by the FDA in connection with pre-market approval applications for our medical device products or lack of government funding for our HTS initiatives. Given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction, we cannot assure you that any of our product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. Our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget could harm our business and prospects. Our business could be harmed if our products contain undetected errors or defects or do not meet customer specifications. We are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. Newly introduced products can contain undetected errors or defects. In addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. If, despite our internal testing and testing by our customers, any of our products contains errors or defects or any of our products fail to meet customer specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. We may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. In addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction, negative publicity or legal claims and could harm our business and prospects. There are a number of technological challenges that must be successfully addressed before our HTS products can gain widespread commercial acceptance. Our HTS products are in the early stages of commercialization or development and we must successfully address a number of technological challenges to complete our development and commercialization efforts. We will also need to improve the performance and/or reduce the cost of our HTS wire to expand the number of commercial applications for it. We may be unable to meet such technological challenges. Delays in development, as a result of technological challenges or other factors, may result in the termination of certain HTS product development efforts or delays in the introduction or commercial acceptance of our products. A widespread commercial market for our HTS products may not develop. To date, there has been no widespread commercial use of HTS products. It is possible that the market demands we currently anticipate for our HTS products will not develop even if technological hurdles are overcome and that HTS products will never achieve widespread commercial acceptance. Many of our HTS projects are dependent upon government funding, subcontractors and other business partners. We partner with other companies, including cable manufacturers and suppliers of cryogenic systems on many of our HTS projects, such as our HTS cable installation program. Accordingly, most of our current and planned revenue-generating projects involve business partners on whose performance our revenue and technical success is dependent. If these business partners fail to deliver their products or perform their obligations on a timely basis, our revenue from these projects may be delayed or decreased and our technical success may be jeopardized. A significant source of revenue for our HTS projects is the U.S. government (e.g., the Department of Energy) and this funding is subject to annual appropriations. If the amount committed to each project is not appropriated annually, then our revenue for HTS projects may be substantially impacted. 20 Back to Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year ended May 28, 2006 and that remain unresolved. ITEM 