ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Unless otherwise noted or the context indicates otherwise, all references in this Item to “we,” “us,” or “our,” refer to Citizens and its subsidiaries. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or currently deem immaterial may also impair business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. We face the risk that loan losses, including unanticipated loan losses due to changes in loan portfolios, fraud and economic factors, could exceed the allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause our operating results to decline and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial position. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that customer loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, the potential inadequacy of the value of the collateral in the event of default, such as has resulted from the deterioration in commercial and residential real estate values. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors including, among others, the ongoing review and grading of the loan portfolio, consideration of past loan loss experience as well as that of the banking industry, trends in past due and nonperforming loans, risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans, existing economic conditions, the fair value of underlying collateral, the size and diversity of individual credits, and other qualitative and quantitative factors which could affect probable credit losses. We determine the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering these factors and by using estimates related to the amount and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on our historical loss experience with additional qualitative factors for various issues, and estimates of necessary reserves for special situations that are unique to the measurement period such as anticipated problem loan resolution activities, along with consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of which are susceptible to significant change and are inherently subjective. Because current economic conditions can change and future events are inherently difficult to predict, the anticipated amount of estimated loan losses, and therefore the adequacy of the allowance, could change significantly. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by commercial and residential real estate. These portfolios are comprised of borrowers primarily located in Michigan, Wisconsin, and Northern Ohio. The Michigan and Northern Ohio markets in particular have been adversely affected by job losses, declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. Declining real estate values in our markets have resulted in sharp increases in losses on certain segments of our portfolio, particularly the land hold, land development, and construction loan portfolios. We have ceased extending land hold and land development loans and are working actively to manage our remaining land hold, land development, and construction portfolios. The credit performance of loans secured by commercial income producing properties has recently been negatively affected by tenant losses and reduced rental rates, contributing to the decline in values associated with the income producing loan portfolio. We may suffer further losses in these segments if our efforts to limit losses through execution of prudent workout strategies are unsuccessful. Although we do not engage in subprime lending, the credit performance of the residential mortgage portfolio has been negatively impacted by borrowers’ loss of or reduction in, income. The decline in the residential real estate values, particularly in Michigan and 16 Table of Contents Northern Ohio, and the extended time frame associated with the sale of repossessed residential properties has led to increased loss severity in this loan portfolio. Increased stress on borrowers’ cash flow due to job loss, reduced rental income, higher interest rates or other factors could lead to even higher payment delinquencies and defaults. Continued declines in real estate values could lead to higher loss severity. Although our most significant loan losses to date have been concentrated in our commercial real estate and residential mortgage loan portfolios, continued adverse economic conditions could adversely affect other portions of our loan portfolio. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses, and therefore we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses or that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will otherwise be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause operating results to decline in the period(s) in which such additions occur and could also have a material adverse impact on our capital and financial position. Our core lending and other businesses continue to be adversely affected by the historic weakness in the national and regional economies in which we operate, particularly Michigan. Our ability to generate earnings and maintain regulatory capital ratios at acceptable levels at our Holding Company and the Bank depends substantially on developments in those economies. Also, our potential inability to comply with applicable laws, regulations and regulatory policies or standards due to the effects of these conditions on our results of operations and financial condition may result in heightened regulatory scrutiny and require us to take actions to protect depositors that are not in the best interests of our shareholders. Our businesses face substantial challenges for the foreseeable future, in particular: • A substantial amount of our lending business originates in Michigan. Of our total portfolio loans, approximately 70% are to borrowers located, or secured by properties, in Michigan and approximately 10% are to borrowers located, or secured by properties, in Ohio. These states have been severely and disproportionately affected by the recent economic downturn. Unemployment rates in these states have been substantially higher than the national average and real estate collateral values have fallen significantly. • Our ability to return to a positive net income is largely dependent upon our future credit costs. Our loan portfolios-particularly our commercial real estate and residential mortgage loan portfolios, which have accounted for a disproportionate amount of our loan loss provisions since the fourth quarter of 2008-continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions and the ongoing correction in real estate prices in our markets. Despite the progress made in the latter parts of 2010, a significant portion of our commercial loan portfolio continues to be classified as nonperforming loans or watchlist loans. The latter are loans that have migrated within our loan rating system to a level that requires increased oversight. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolios. In view of the weakness and uncertainties in the national and regional economies in which we operate and the inherent difficulty in predicting future events, we may find it necessary to continue to take loan loss provisions in future periods in amounts that substantially exceed loan loss provisions in prior periods in order to maintain our allowance for loan losses at a level we deem appropriate. As a result of the weakness in the economy nationally and particularly in our primary markets, and the effect of this weakness on unemployment rates and the value of real estate collateralizing many of our loans, we have incurred substantial losses, our charged-off loans have increased substantially and our capital levels have been adversely affected. These effects have, in turn, hampered our ability to comply with various standards and policies of our various banking regulators which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the FDIC, not shareholders or holders of subordinated debt or trust preferred securities. Any failure to comply with laws, regulations, or regulatory policies or standards, such as maintenance of capital ratios and reduction of nonperforming asset levels due to the deterioration in our financial condition and operating results, could also result in heightened regulatory scrutiny and in further sanctions by regulatory agencies (such as a memorandum of understanding, a change to our Written Agreement, a new written supervisory agreement or a cease and desist order), civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. Any of these consequences could restrict our ability to expand our business, could require us to raise additional capital or sell assets on terms that are not advantageous 17 Table of Contents to us or our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and stock price. As a follow up to recently concluded examinations of Citizens Bank, the Holding Company and Citizens Bank entered into a written supervisory agreement with the FRBC and OFIR, their primary regulators, as of July 28, 2010, which is summarized in “Item 1 Business -Supervision and Regulation” and which we refer to as the Written Agreement. The Written Agreement requires the Holding Company and the Bank to take various actions intended by the regulators to improve the operations of the Holding Company and the Bank, requires them to submit capital and liquidity plans to the regulators that are acceptable to the regulators, and prohibits them from taking certain actions, such as paying dividends and amounts owed in connection with their outstanding trust preferred securities, without regulatory approval. Although we do not currently anticipate that compliance with the Written Agreement will have a material adverse impact on our operations, we cannot provide any assurance as to the potential impact of such action on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Written Agreement is designed to remediate certain deficiencies noted by the regulators for the protection of depositors rather than the benefit of shareholders or debt holders. Our regulators could subject us to various requirements limiting our ability to develop new business lines, mandating that we raise additional capital in a manner that would be dilutive to shareholders, and/or requiring the sale of certain assets and liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Moreover, if we are unable to comply with the terms of the Written Agreement, we could become subject to additional heightened supervisory actions and orders, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. Changes in applicable laws, regulations, and regulatory practices at either the federal or state level may result in the imposition of additional costs or restrict our ability to operate our business in the manner most beneficial to our shareholders. The banking industry is heavily regulated, and such regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not shareholders or holders of subordinated debt or trust preferred securities. As a bank holding company, the Holding Company is subject to regulation by the FRB. Citizens Bank is subject to federal regulation primarily by the FRB and is also subject to regulation by the OFIR. These regulations affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. In addition, we have non-depository banking operating subsidiaries from which we derive income. CB Wealth Management engages in providing investment management and insurance brokerage services, which industries are also heavily regulated on both a state and federal level. Various legislative and regulatory initiatives have been introduced in Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any impending regulations, would have on our financial condition and results of operation. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to us could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things, any of which could have a material effect on our business. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the financial services industry, including those relating to the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in heightened regulatory scrutiny and in sanctions by regulatory agencies (such as a memorandum of understanding, a change to our Written Agreement, a new written supervisory agreement or a cease and desist order), civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. Any of these consequences could restrict our ability to expand our business or could require us to raise additional capital or sell assets on terms that are not advantageous to us or our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 18 Table of Contents condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, such violations may occur despite our best efforts. While we attempt to manage the risk from changes in market interest rates, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. In addition, we may not be able to economically hedge our interest rate risk. A rapid or substantial increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and results of operations. Our ability to generate net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. We attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. We continually review our interest rate risk position and modify our strategies based on projections to minimize the impact of future interest rate changes. We also use derivative financial instruments to modify our exposure to changes in interest rates. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial performance. The negative economic effects caused by terrorist attacks, potential attacks and other destabilizing events would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for our financial products such as loans. High inflation, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, an escalation of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, and other factors could have a negative impact on the economy of the Upper Midwest regions in which we operate. An additional economic downturn in our markets would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio by impacting the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and may reduce the level of deposits in the Bank and the stability of our deposit funding sources. An additional economic downturn could also have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services. The cumulative effect of these matters on our results of operations and financial condition would likely be adverse and material. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain core deposits, to obtain third party financing on favorable terms, or to have access to interbank or other liquidity sources (as a result of rating agency downgrades or other market factors), our cost of funds will increase, adversely affecting the ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations, reducing net interest margin and negatively affecting results of operations. The Bank derives liquidity through core deposit growth, maturity of money market investments, and maturity and sale of investment securities and loans. Additionally, the Bank has access to financial market borrowing sources 19 Table of Contents on an unsecured, and a collateralized basis for both short-term and long-term purposes including, but not limited to, the Federal Reserve, Federal Home Loan Banks of which the Bank is a member, and other correspondent banks. If these funding sources are not sufficient or available, we may have to acquire funds through higher-cost sources. Our credit rating was downgraded by Moody’s Investor Service, Standard and Poor’s, Dominion Bond Rating Service, and Fitch Ratings throughout 2009 and 2010. During the first quarter of 2010, we submitted a letter to Standard & Poor’s requesting that Standard & Poor’s discontinue rating Citizens. Standard & Poor’s subsequently removed the ratings as did Dominion Bond Rating Service. In the first quarter of 2011, Fitch Ratings lowered our credit ratings. Although we currently have the ability to borrow funds on both a short-term and long-term basis as an additional source of liquidity, our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates may be negatively impacted if our ratings were to continue to be downgraded from their current level, and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increased competition with other financial institutions or an adverse change in our relationship with a number of major customers could reduce our net interest margin and net income by decreasing the number and size of loans originated, the interest rates charged on these loans and the fees charged for services to customers. The Bank faces substantial competition in originating commercial and consumer loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors have competitive advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of the loans that we originate and the interest rates we charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, we face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations which could increase our cost of funds. We also compete for deposits with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over us in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Events such as significant adverse changes in the business climate, adverse action by a regulator, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, and a decision to change our operations or dispose of an operating unit could have a negative effect on our goodwill or other intangible assets such that we may need to record an impairment charge, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are assessed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently when impairment indicators are present. After evaluating goodwill and other intangible assets, we may determine that one or both are deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. While a goodwill impairment charge was not required in 2010, we recorded an impairment of $256.3 million and $178.1 million in 2009 and 2008 respectively, which contributed significantly to our losses for those years. Further deterioration in the outlook for credit quality, changes in the value of the loan or deposit portfolios, or increases in the discount rates could have a material impact on future goodwill impairment testing results. If we identify any impairment, it would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If the FDIC raises the assessment rate charged to its insured financial institutions, our FDIC insurance premium may increase and this could have a negative effect on our expenses and results of operations. During 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures and temporary programs increasing deposit insurance limits dramatically increased resolution costs for the FDIC and depleted its deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios for the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates for all insured institutions throughout 2010. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC Board approved a final rule that changes the assessment base from domestic deposits to average assets minus average tangible equity, adopts a new large-bank pricing assessment scheme, and sets a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund. The changes will go into effect beginning with the second quarter of 2011 and will be payable at the end of September 2011. The rule as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act finalizes a target size for the Deposit Insurance Fund at 2 percent of insured deposits. It also implements a lower assessment rate schedule when the fund reaches 1.15 percent (so that the average rate over time should be about 8.5 basis points) and, in lieu of dividends, provides for a lower rate schedule when the reserve ratio reaches 2 percent and 2.5 percent. The rule would, in aggregate, increase the share of assessments paid by large institutions. The final rule also creates a scorecard-based assessment system for banks with more than $10 billion in assets. The scorecards include financial measures that the FDIC believes are predictive of long-term performance. Although, Citizens does not anticipate that this new rule will have a material impact, , any future increase in FDIC insurance premiums, alone or together with the other recent increases, may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC insurance premiums than the recently increased levels. These announced increases and any future increase in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not realize our deferred income tax assets and loss carryforwards. The realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent on utilizing taxable income in prior carryback years, generating future taxable income, executing tax planning strategies, and reversing existing taxable temporary differences. As of December 31, 2010, we maintained a full valuation allowance of $292.9 million. The valuation allowance may be adjusted as conditions change and the underlying tax assets remain available to potentially offset future taxable income. In the event that future taxable income does not occur in the manner projected, it could increase the valuation allowance and have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a change of ownership occurs with respect to a company with deferred income tax assets, that company’s use of the pre-change of ownership carryforward as well as the ability to use certain unrealized built-in losses would be substantially limited. A change of ownership occurred under Section 382 as a result of the exchange offers of common stock for long-term debt in the third quarter of 2009. Generally, under Section 382, the yearly limitation on our ability to utilize such deductions will be equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the sum of the values of our common stock and our TARP Preferred Stock immediately before the ownership change. Our ability to utilize deductions related to credit losses during the twelve-month period following such an ownership change would also be limited under Section 382, together with net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that such deductions reflect a net loss that was “built-in” to our assets immediately prior to the ownership change. 21 Table of Contents Because the exchange offers triggered an ownership change, our ability to use the net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses existing at the time of the deemed change in ownership to offset future income will be substantially limited. Therefore, we may suffer higher than anticipated tax expense, and consequently lower net income and cash flow, in those future years. Moreover, any future change in ownership would further limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses existing at the time of the future change in ownership. Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Actual or anticipated negative variations in quarterly results of operations; • Negative recommendations by securities analysts; • Poor operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • News reports relating to negative trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • Negative perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • Adverse changes in interest rate; • Adverse changes in the real estate market; • Negative economic news; • Adverse changes in government regulations; • Delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ; and • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. If our common stock fails to meet the listing requirements of NASDAQ and is delisted from trading on the NASDAQ, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “CRBC”. The NASDAQ’s listing requirements include a requirement that, for continued listing, an issuer’s common shares trade at a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. This requirement is deemed breached when the bid price of an issuer’s common shares closes below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days. We were notified on July 19, 2010 that our shares failed to meet the requirement for the specified time period and NASDAQ’s Listing Qualifications Department notified us that they could initiate steps to delist our common stock from trading on the NASDAQ anytime after January 18, 2011 unless our closing bid price exceeds $1.00 per share for at least 10 consecutive trading days prior to that date. On January 19, 2011, Citizens was notified by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department that Citizens had not regained compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1). Citizens will be afforded an additional 180 calendar days, or until July 18, 2011, to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement. If Citizens is not in compliance with the listing requirement by July 18, 2011, the NASDAQ will issue a notification of delisting to the Corporation. Citizens may appeal the determination to delist at that time, pay a fee and submit a plan of compliance to the NASDAQ, which would temporarily stay any delisting action. Any such appeal may not be successful, however, and the Corporation’s common stock could be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Citizens intends to actively monitor the bid price for its common stock and is considering available options to resolve the deficiency and regain compliance with the NASDAQ minimum bid price requirement. Although we may take certain actions to increase our stock price prior to being delisted from NASDAQ or otherwise challenge any action by NASDAQ to delist our common stock, there can be no assurance that these actions will be successful in maintaining our listing on NASDAQ or the trading market for our stock. A delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ could adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our stock and therefore the market price of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In order to maintain and strengthen our capital base, we may need to raise additional capital in transactions that may be highly dilutive to our common shareholders. If such capital becomes needed, our failure to raise additional capital could have serious consequences for our business. We regularly perform a variety of analyses on our assets and the impact of credit losses on our capital base, including the preparation of stress case scenarios. Due to continuing economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and the challenges posed to our business, including those described in other Risk Factors, we may determine, based on these analyses, that we need to raise additional Tier 1 common equity to maintain and strengthen our capital base as the effects of these events impact our business over the coming months and years. Any potential capital raising transaction could be highly dilutive to our common shareholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the dilutive effect of the capital raising transactions we may enter into, or the perception that such transactions could occur. In connection with the issuance of the TARP Preferred Stock, we also issued a warrant to Treasury to purchase approximately 17.6 million additional shares of our common stock at an initial per share exercise price of $2.56, subject to adjustment, which expires ten years from the issuance date. Even if we were to redeem the TARP Preferred Stock, we may not fully retire this warrant and, therefore, this warrant may be exercised, in whole or part, prior to its expiration date. Furthermore, the terms of the warrant provide that, if we issue common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into, or exchangeable for, common stock at a price that is less than 90% of the market price of such shares on the last trading day preceding the date of the agreement to sell such shares, the number and the per share price of common stock to be purchased pursuant to the warrant will be adjusted pursuant to its terms. As part of our potential capital raising efforts, we could issue securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock, which may trigger the anti-dilution provisions of the warrant issued to the Treasury. If we issue such securities and they are subsequently exercised, converted into or exchanged for common stock such transactions would have a further dilutive effect on other holders of our common stock. Also, if we determine that we need to raise additional capital, our capital raising efforts may not be successful, or we may be required to raise additional capital on terms that are unfavorable to us. A failure to maintain capital above “well-capitalized” levels could require us to further reduce the size of our business and would likely have serious negative consequences for our business. We have agreements with derivative counterparties that contain a provision where if we fail to maintain our status as a well capitalized or adequately capitalized institution, then the counterparty could terminate the derivative positions and we would be required to settle our obligations under the agreements. A default under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Holding Company may not have sufficient resources to make capital contributions to the Bank if required by bank regulatory agencies, or if we might otherwise wish to do so, in order to maintain the Bank’s capital ratios at acceptable levels. 23 Table of Contents Our Holding Company is required by banking regulation to act as a “source of strength” to the Bank. If losses at the Bank continue and regulatory capital levels at the Bank decline, our Holding Company may be required by the bank regulatory agencies to contribute additional capital to the Bank. Since January 1, 2009, the Holding Company contributed $174.0 million to Citizens Bank to bolster capital levels at the Bank, including $100.0 million during 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the Holding Company’s cash resources totaled $68.1 million. We may not have sufficient funds at our Holding Company level to make required capital contributions to the Bank if the weakness in the economies in which we operate continues over a substantial period of time and the Bank continues to incur losses. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries, the ability of our Holding Company to pay dividends, repurchase our shares or to repay our indebtedness depends upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to our Holding Company. Dividends paid by these subsidiaries are subject to limits imposed by federal and state law and are restricted by a supervisory agreement with our regulators. The Holding Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries and sales of our securities to investors. Dividends from subsidiaries are an important source of funds to pay dividends on common stock and interest and principal on debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may pay to the Holding Company. Also, our Holding Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Because our subsidiaries are currently unable to pay dividends to our Holding Company, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or, should we have the ability to do so in the future, pay dividends on common stock. Payment of dividends by our Holding Company on the common stock, or by the Bank to our Holding Company, requires regulatory approval pursuant to the Written Agreement, which generally prohibits the Holding Company from paying interest or principal on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities, taking any form of payment from Citizens Bank, incurring, increasing, or guaranteeing debt and purchasing or redeeming any shares of its stock. These restrictions will remain in effect until the FRBC and OFIR terminate the Written Agreement. In addition, the payment of dividends on the common stock or, except in limited circumstances, the repurchase of our common stock or other equity or capital securities by our Holding Company at any time prior to December 12, 2011 requires the approval of the United States Treasury pursuant to the terms of our TARP Preferred Stock unless we have redeemed all of the TARP Preferred Stock or Treasury has transferred all of the TARP Preferred Stock to a third party. As of December 31, 2010, the Holding Company’s cash resources totaled $68.1 million. The Holding Company’s interest and preferred dividend payment obligations are $19.9 million annually. We have suspended the dividend payments on our trust preferred securities and on our TARP Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury, temporarily reducing our payment obligations to $6.5 million annually. However, there can be no assurance that the Holding Company’s cash resources will be sufficient to fulfill its obligations. Our efforts to resolve problem assets in a manner beneficial to the Corporation may not be successful. In an effort to reduce overall problem asset levels, Citizens resolved $466.2 million of problem assets in the fourth quarter of 2010 through a combination of bulk sales and individual workouts, resulting in a provision for loan losses of $131.3 million and net charge-offs of $159.3 million. Although we expect to substantially complete these efforts in the first quarter of 2011, clients may be unwilling or unable to repay Citizens on a timely basis or renegotiate their loans, there may be no market for Citizens to exit these loans or economic conditions could result in a more significant increase in nonperforming loans than expected. If any of these conditions occurs, Citizens may not be able to substantially complete the resolution of problem assets during the expected time frame, which could have a negative impact on its capital, results of operations and financial position, and could delay Citizens’ return to profitability. We could face unanticipated environmental liabilities or costs related to real property owned or acquired through foreclosure. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those related to investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites, could have a negative effect on expenses and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. We are party to various lawsuits incidental to our business. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties such that the expenses and ultimate exposure with respect to many of these matters cannot be ascertained. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action are legitimate or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. If we are unable to adequately invest in and implement new technology-driven products and services, we may not be able to compete effectively, or the cost to provide products and services may increase significantly. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to providing better customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial service institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the customer needs by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The products and services offered by the banking industry and customer expectations regarding them are subject to change. We attempt to respond to perceived customer needs and expectations by offering new products and services, which are often costly to develop and market initially. A lack of market acceptance of these products and services would have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources. We may not achieve initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. If we were to lose key employees, we may experience a disruption in our relationship with certain customers. 25 Table of Contents Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for the best people in most of our business activities can be intense, and we may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Many of our key employees have extensive customer relationships. Loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of customers if they were to follow that employee to a competitor. While we believe that our relationship with our key producers is good, we cannot guarantee that all of our key personnel will remain with us. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact Citizens’ results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, represents the comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, establishes the new Federal Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and requires the bureau and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations. These rules and regulations, as well as the self-implementing provisions of the statute and the Durbin amendment could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment and our ability to conduct business. The Durbin Amendment (the “Amendment”) to the Dodd-Frank Act, directs the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to establish rules by April 21, 2011, required to take effect by July 21, 2011, related to debit-card interchange fees. The proposed rule released by the Federal Reserve on December 16, 2010 precludes the recovery of costs other than those permitted by the Amendment, and may have an adverse effect on Citizens’ average interchange rate after July 21, 2011. Citizens, as well as the broader financial services industry, has begun to assess the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on its business and operations, but at this early stage, the likely impact cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty. However, it is likely that compliance with these new laws and regulations will result in reduced revenue and additional costs, which could be significant, and may adversely impact Citizens’ results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. New accounting or tax pronouncements or interpretations may be issued by the accounting profession, regulators or other government bodies which could change existing accounting methods. Changes in accounting methods could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Current accounting and tax rules, standards, policies, and interpretations influence the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy of major U.S. companies, have resulted in legislators, regulators, and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various taxing authorities, responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revision to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting standards may adversely affect reported financial condition and results of operations. Our business continuity plans or data security systems could prove to be inadequate, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, whether due to severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, criminal activity or other factors, could result in failures or disruptions in general ledger, deposit, loan, customer relationship management, and other systems. While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our vendors could fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations. We have entered into subcontracts for the supply of current and future services, such as data processing, mortgage loan processing and servicing, and certain property management functions. These services must be available on a continuous and timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could substantially harm our business. We often purchase services from vendors under agreements that typically can be terminated on a periodic basis. There can be no assurance, however, that vendors will be able to meet their obligations under these agreements or that we will be able to compel them to do so. Risks of relying on vendors include the following: • If an existing agreement expires or a certain service is discontinued by a vendor, then we may not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our operating results would likely suffer unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar service. • Agreements we may negotiate in the future may commit us to certain minimum spending obligations. It is possible we will not be able to create the market demand to meet such obligations. • If market demand for our products increases suddenly, our current vendors might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new arrangements or new sources of supply, and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand. • We may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of services we receive from our vendors. Poor quality services could damage our reputation with our customers. Potential problems with vendors such as those discussed above could have a significant adverse effect on our business, lead to higher costs and damage our reputation with our customers and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws as well as certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our Holding Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 