ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Unless otherwise noted or the context indicates otherwise, all references in this Item to “we,” “us,” or “our,” refer to Citizens and its subsidiaries. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that we believe affect us are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or 13 focused on or currently deem immaterial may also impair business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. We face the risk that loan losses, including unanticipated loan losses due to changes in loan portfolios, fraud and economic factors, could exceed the allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause our net income to decline and could have a negative impact on our capital and financial position. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that customer loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risks of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, the potential inadequacy of the value of the collateral in the event of default, such as has resulted from the deterioration in commercial and residential real estate values. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors including, among others, the ongoing review and grading of the loan portfolio, consideration of past loan loss experience as well as that of the banking industry, trends in past due and nonperforming loans, risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans, existing economic conditions, the fair value of underlying collateral, the size and diversity of individual credits, and other qualitative and quantitative factors which could affect probable credit losses. We determine the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering these factors and by using estimates related to the amount and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on our historical loss experience with additional qualitative factors for various issues, and allocation of reserves for special situations that are unique to the measurement period with consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of which are susceptible to significant change. Because current economic conditions can change and future events are inherently difficult to predict, the anticipated amount of estimated loan losses, and therefore the adequacy of the allowance, could change significantly. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is sensitive to real estate values, and declining real estate prices in our markets have resulted in sharp increases in delinquencies and losses on certain segments of our portfolio. Although we do not engage in subprime lending, the related economic issues and the resulting disruption in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans and the reduction in the availability of mortgage credit have contributed to a decline in the real estate markets generally, and certain segments of our loan portfolio, particularly our land hold, land development and construction loan portfolios, have suffered large increases in delinquencies and losses. Although we have ceased extending land hold and land development loans and are working actively to manage our remaining land hold and land development portfolio, we may suffer further losses in this segment if market conditions continue to deteriorate and our efforts to limit losses through workouts of bad loans are unsuccessful. Taken together with the general economic downturn in our key markets, the effects of ongoing mortgage market turbulence, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further reductions in real estate values, further adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations, and profits on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers and their ability to repay loans from us. Although our most significant loan losses to date have been concentrated in our commercial real estate loan portfolio, a sustained economic downturn could adversely affect other portions of our loan portfolio. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses, and therefore we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses or that additional increases in the allowance for loan 14 losses will otherwise be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause net income to decline in the period(s) in which such additions occur and could also have a material adverse impact on our capital and financial position. While we attempt to manage the risk from changes in market interest rates, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. In addition, we may not be able to economically hedge our interest rate risk. A rapid or substantial increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and results of operations. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. We attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. We continually review our interest rate risk position and modify our strategies based on projections to minimize the impact of future interest rate changes. We also use derivative financial instruments to modify our exposure to changes in interest rates. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial performance. Difficult economic conditions have adversely affected the banking industry and financial markets generally and may significantly affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates and the money supply and other factors may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels, loan demand, and therefore, earnings. The capital and credit markets, including fixed income markets, have been experiencing volatility and disruption since August 2007. In some cases the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ financial strength. Secondary markets for certain forms of securitized credit have ceased to function. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and in some cases ceased to provide funding to borrowers including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will persist, the extent to which they will impact our business segments, or whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. Accordingly, the resulting shortfall of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased 15 consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets, and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by current economic conditions, we face various risks in connection with these events, including the following: • Inability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses. • Increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal standards, and regulatory requirements or expectations in connection with EESA and ARRA or future legislation. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. In addition, compensation restrictions associated with EESA, ARRA, or similar future legislation may affect our ability to attract and retain key management personnel. • Possible changes to bankruptcy laws could result in the loss of all or part of our security interest in mortgage loans (so-called “cramdown” provisions) or other foreclosure moratorium laws. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations may result in an inability to borrow at favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. An economic downturn, and the negative economic effects caused by terrorist attacks, potential attacks and other destabilizing events, would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for our financial products such as loans. High inflation, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, an escalation of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, increased unemployment, changes in securities markets and other factors could have a negative impact on the economy of the Upper Midwest regions in which we operate. A sustained economic downturn in our markets would likely contribute to the deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio by impacting the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and may reduce the level of deposits in our banking subsidiaries and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A sustained economic downturn could also have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services. The concentration of our assets and operations in Michigan and the other Upper Midwest states in which we operate makes us sensitive to changes in economic, demographic, and regulatory conditions in those states. The economy in our markets relies heavily on the performance of the manufacturing sector in general and the automobile industry specifically. Declining vehicle production, foreign competition, higher fuel prices, tighter credit availability and continued supply rationalization have contributed to significant job losses in the automotive sector in recent years, and this trend is expected to continue. The current economic downturn in our markets has led to significant deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio by adversely affecting the ability of our customers to repay loans and reducing the value of the collateral securing loans we have extended. The cumulative effect of these matters on our results of operations and financial condition would likely be adverse and material. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain core deposits, to obtain third party financing on favorable terms, or to have access to interbank or other liquidity sources (as a result of rating agency downgrades or other market factors), our cost of funds will increase, adversely affecting the ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations, reducing net interest margin and negatively affecting results of operations. Our subsidiary banks derive liquidity through core deposit growth, maturity of money market investments, and maturity and sale of investment securities and loans. Additionally, our subsidiary banks have access to financial market borrowing sources on an unsecured, and a collateralized basis for both short-term and long-term purposes including, but not limited to, the Federal Reserve, Federal Home Loan Banks of which the subsidiary banks are members, and other correspondent banks. If these funding sources are not sufficient or available, we may have to acquire funds through higher-cost sources. Our credit rating was reviewed by Moody’s Investor Service in October 2008 and maintained, and was downgraded by Standard and Poor’s in October 2008, Dominion Bond Rating Service in April 2008, and Fitch 16 Ratings in February 2008. Citizens does not believe the recent downgrades will negatively affect its ability to obtain wholesale or interbank funding. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time and each rating should be evaluated independently. Wholesale funding represents an important source of liquidity to us, and credit ratings affect the availability and cost of this funding. We currently have the ability to borrow funds on both a short-term and long-term basis as an additional source of liquidity. If our ratings were downgraded from their current level, our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates may be negatively impacted and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increased competition with other financial institutions or an adverse change in our relationship with a number of major customers could reduce our net interest margin and net income by decreasing the number and size of loans originated, the interest rates charged on these loans and the fees charged for services to customers. If we lend to customers who are less likely to pay in order to maintain historical origination levels, we may not be able to maintain current loan quality levels. Our banking subsidiaries face substantial competition in originating commercial and consumer loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors have competitive advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of the loans that we originate and the interest rates we charge on these loans. In attracting business and consumer deposits, we face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations which could increase our cost of funds. We also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern banking operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over us in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and non-banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Events such as significant adverse changes in the business climate, adverse action by a regulator, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, and a decision to change our operations or dispose of an operating unit could have a negative effect on our goodwill or other intangible assets such that we may need to record an impairment charge, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are assessed at least annually for impairment, or when impairment indicators are present. After evaluating goodwill and other intangible assets, we may determine that one or both are deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. During the second quarter of 2008, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test and determined that the goodwill allocated to the Specialty Commercial line of business was impaired due to continued 17 deterioration in commercial real estate collateral values and continued challenges in the Midwest economy. As a result, we recorded a $178.1 million goodwill impairment charge, which represented the entire amount of goodwill previously allocated to Specialty Commercial. During the third and fourth quarters of 2008, we concluded the interim and annual analyses with no additional impairment charges being recorded. Citizens will continue to evaluate the remaining goodwill on a frequent basis if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair values of the reporting units are below their respective carrying amounts. Further deterioration in the outlook for credit quality, changes in the value of the loan or deposit portfolios, or increases in the discount rates could have a material impact on future goodwill impairment testing results. If we identify any impairment, it would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If any impairment is significant enough to result in net loss for the period, it might affect the banks’ ability to pay dividends to the Holding Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to pay dividends to shareholders or repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock. We may not realize our deferred income tax assets. The realization of our deferred income tax assets is dependent on utilizing taxable income in prior carryback years, generating future taxable income, executing tax planning strategies, and reversing existing taxable temporary differences. As of December 31, 2008, Citizens recorded a $155.7 million valuation allowance, which consisted of $136.6 million recognized as income tax provision and $19.1 million recognized through the other comprehensive income component of shareholders’ equity in the consolidated financial statements. Despite the valuation allowance, these assets remain available to offset future taxable income. The valuation allowance may be adjusted as conditions change. In the event that future taxable income does not occur in the manner projected, it could affect the valuation allowance and have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Actual or anticipated negative variations in quarterly results of operations; • Negative recommendations by securities analysts; • Poor operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • News reports relating to negative trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • Negative perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors; • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • Our failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • Adverse changes in government regulations; and • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Although our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Corporation’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. 18 If our stock does not continue to be traded on an established exchange, an active trading market may not continue and the trading price of our stock may decline. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. In order to maintain that listing, we are required to satisfy various minimum financial and market related requirements, including, without limitation, maintaining a $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price for our common stock. In response to current market conditions, NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the enforcement rules requiring the minimum $1.00 closing bid price through April 19, 2009. Our common stock has recently traded below $1.00 per share at closing. If the closing bid price of our common stock continues to fail to meet NASDAQ’s minimum closing bid price requirement for at least 30 consecutive trading days after April 19, 2009, or such later date to which NASDAQ may extend its suspension of this requirement, NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our common stock. We may pursue other strategic alternatives to meet the continuing listing standards. For example, if appropriate, we may implement a reverse stock split in order to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement, move our stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market to gain additional time to regain compliance, or we may choose to voluntarily delist from NASDAQ, in the event we believe we may be subject to a delisting proceeding or for any other reason our Board of Directors determines to be in the best interest of our shareholders. Any such delisting or change in listing status could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease and could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, and employees. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could face unanticipated environmental liabilities or costs related to real property owned or acquired through foreclosure. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those related to investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites, could have a negative effect on expenses and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. 19 We are party to various lawsuits incidental to our business. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties such that the expenses and ultimate exposure with respect to many of these matters cannot be ascertained. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action are legitimate or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes. If we are unable to adequately invest in and implement new technology-driven products and services, we may not be able to compete effectively, or the cost to provide products and services may increase significantly. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to providing better customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial service institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the customer needs by using technology to provide products and services to enhance customer convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. Changes in banking or tax laws, regulations, and regulatory practices at either the federal or state level may adversely affect us, including our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, pay dividends from our subsidiaries to our Holding Company, attract deposits, or make loans at satisfactory spreads. Such changes may also result in the imposition of additional costs. The banking industry is heavily regulated, and such regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not shareholders or holders of subordinated debt. As a bank holding company, our Holding Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiaries each have their own federal regulator (the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC or the OCC) and are also subject to regulation by the state banking departments of the state in which they are chartered. These regulations affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. In addition, we have non-bank operating subsidiaries from which we derive income. Certain of these non-bank subsidiaries engage in providing investment management and insurance brokerage services, which industries are also heavily regulated on both a state and federal level. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the financial services industry could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. The products and services offered by the banking industry and customer expectations regarding them are subject to change. We attempt to respond to perceived customer needs and expectations by offering new products and services, which are often costly to develop and market initially. A lack of market acceptance of these products and services would have a negative effect on financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources. We may not achieve initial timetables for the 20 introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries, the ability of our Holding Company to pay dividends, repurchase our shares or to repay our indebtedness depends upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to our Holding Company. Dividends paid by these subsidiaries are subject to limits imposed by federal and state law. The Holding Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries and sales of its securities to investors. Dividends from subsidiaries are an important source of funds to pay dividends on common stock and interest and principal on debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our bank subsidiaries and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Holding Company. At January 1, 2009, its subsidiaries were permitted to pay $2.4 million in dividends. Also, our Holding Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event its subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends to our Holding Company, it may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock. On April 17, 2008, Citizens’ Board of Directors voted to suspend the common stock quarterly dividend. On December 12, 2008, Citizens issued fixed-rate cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series A (“preferred stock”) with liquidation value of $300 million to the Treasury as part of the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program. Prior to December 12, 2011, and unless Citizens has redeemed all of the preferred stock or Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the approval of Treasury will be required for the Holding Company to pay any common stock dividend or, except in limited circumstances, repurchase its common stock or other equity or capital securities. The Holding Company’s cash resources totaled $261.4 million at December 31, 2008. The Holding Company’s interest and preferred dividend payment obligations are approximately $35 million annually. While we believe the Holding Company has adequate long-term liquidity, if conditions were to change, it may be unable to pay dividends, service debt, or pay its obligations. New accounting or tax pronouncements or interpretations may be issued by the accounting profession, regulators or other government bodies which could change existing accounting methods. Changes in accounting methods could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Current accounting and tax rules, standards, policies, and interpretations influence the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy of major U.S. companies, have resulted in legislators, regulators, and authoritative bodies, such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various taxing authorities, responding by adopting and/or proposing substantive revision to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting standards may adversely affect reported financial condition and results of operations. Our business continuity plans or data security systems could prove to be inadequate, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations. 21 We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, whether due to severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, criminal activity or other factors, could result in failures or disruptions in general ledger, deposit, loan, customer relationship management, and other systems. While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our vendors could fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, resulting in a material interruption in, or disruption to, our business and a negative impact on our results of operations. We have entered into subcontracts for the supply of current and future services, such as data processing and certain property management functions. These services must be available on a continuous and timely basis and be in compliance with any regulatory requirements. Failure to do so could substantially harm our business. We often purchase services from vendors under agreements that typically can be terminated on a periodic basis. There can be no assurance, however, that vendors will be able to meet their obligations under these agreements or that we will be able to compel them to do so. Risks of relying on vendors include the following. • If an existing agreement expires or a certain service is discontinued by a vendor, then we may not be able to continue to offer our customers the same breadth of products and our operating results would likely suffer unless we are able to find an alternate supply of a similar service. • Agreements we may negotiate in the future may commit us to certain minimum spending obligations. It is possible we will not be able to create the market demand to meet such obligations. • If market demand for our products increases suddenly, our current vendors might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new arrangements or new sources of supply, and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand. • We may not be able to control or adequately monitor the quality of services we receive from our vendors. Poor quality services could damage our reputation with our customers. Potential problems with vendors such as those discussed above could have a significant adverse effect on our business, lead to higher costs and damage our reputation with our customers and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our potential inability to integrate acquired operations could have a negative effect on our expenses and results of operations. In the past, we have grown through strategic acquisitions, such as our 2006 acquisition of Republic, and we may engage in strategic acquisitions in the future to strengthen and expand our operating and marketing capabilities. The full benefits of these acquisitions, however, require integration of administrative, financial, sales, lending, collections, marketing approaches, and personnel. If we are unable to successfully integrate these acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisitions, and our financial results may be negatively affected. A completed acquisition may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including our capital requirements and the accounting treatment of these acquisitions. Completed acquisitions may also lead to significant unexpected liabilities after the consummation of these acquisitions. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations 22 related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws as well as certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our Holding Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 