Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Sunteck Transport Co., Inc. (Sunteck), we are a non-asset based transportation services company, providing transportation capacity and related transportation services to shippers throughout the United States, and to a lesser extent, Canada. As a non-asset based provider of brokerage and contract carrier transportation services, we do not own any equipment and our services are provided through our strategic alliances with less than truckload, truckload, air, rail, ocean common carriers and independent owner-operators to service our customers' needs. Our non-asset based services include ground transportation coast to coast, local pick up and delivery, air freight and ocean freight. Our business services emphasize safety, information coordination and customer service and are delivered through a network of independent commissioned sales agents and third party capacity providers coordinated by us. The independent commissioned sales agents typically enter into exclusive contractual arrangements with us and are responsible for locating freight and coordinating the transportation of the freight with customers and capacity providers. The third party capacity providers consist of independent contractors who provide truck capacity to us, including owner-operators who operate under our contract carrier license, air cargo carriers and railroads. Through this network of agents and capacity providers, we operate a transportation services business with revenue, net revenue and net income of approximately $68.0 million, $13.6 million and $3.6 million, respectively, during our most recently completed fiscal year. Our brokerage services are provided though a network of independent sales agents throughout the United States and Canada. Our services include arranging for the transport of customers' freight from the shippers location to the designated destination. We do not own any trucking equipment and rely on independent carriers for the movement of customers' freight. We seek to establish long-term relationships with our customers and provide a variety of logistics services and solutions to eliminate inefficiencies in our customers' supply chain management. Our contract carrier services, which commenced in 2003, are also provided through a network of independent sales agents and independent owner-operators throughout the United States. We do not own any trucking equipment; our independent owner-operators lease onto our operating authority and transport freight under the Sunteck name. Strategy Our strategy is to continue to expand through affiliations with independent sales agents and through internal expansion. We have been successful at expanding our brokerage sales agent network and now have representatives throughout the United States and Canada. We have also been successful in expanding our contract carriers services. In addition, we have experienced internal expansion as many of our existing agents have expanded their customer base and increased the number of transactions generated. We intend to seek, on a selective basis, acquisition of businesses that have services which complement and expand our existing services, and provide us with strategic distribution locations or attractive customer bases. Our ability to implement our growth strategy will be dependent on our ability to identify and affiliate with these agents on desirable economic terms. 2 Company background AutoInfo, Inc. was organized under the laws of the State of New York in 1976 and reincorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1987. In December 2000, we acquired Sunteck in a merger transaction. The industry Prior to the mid 1980's, the trucking industry was regulated by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Deregulation brought new breath and life to the industry. This also brought with it the problem of how to navigate the transportation highway. Shippers found it difficult to locate carriers and carriers found that it was expensive to find freight. Enter the third party transportation providers-intermediaries (freight brokers, freight forwarders and logistics providers). The third party intermediary connects the shipper and the carrier and helps manage the flow of goods. The present market for freight moved by truck is estimated by management to exceed $200 billion per year. This is a highly fragmented industry comprised of common carriers, contract carriers, freight forwarders and freight brokers. The actual movement of goods is accomplished by trucking (consisting of local, over the road, truckload, and less than truckload shipments), air freight (time sensitive in nature), rail freight (non time sensitive in nature and usually less expensive than truck) and ocean freight (generally in containerized ships). Other services provided include warehousing and distribution. There are several trends which are relevant to the continued dependency upon and growth of the trucking industry: o Just in time service With new technology and a premium on cost savings, businesses are able to maintain smaller inventories, thereby reducing carrying costs and warehouse space requirements. The impact on the freight industry is more shipments of smaller quantities that are more time sensitive and, therefore, more costly. o Outsourcing Companies have found it to be more cost effective and efficient to eliminate company owned truck fleets and rely upon others to handle their trucking and shipping needs. o Logistics Small to medium size businesses, with less frequent shipping requirements, utilize logistics providers (freight brokers, etc.) to manage all aspects of the transportation, warehousing and delivery needs. The market for third party logistics providers is highly fragmented. It is comprised primarily of full service logistics providers, freight brokers, independent sales agents and sales representatives. Sales agents often work out of home-based offices or small regional sales offices and affiliate themselves with full service brokers to provide back-office services including load dispatching, bonding and licensing, billing, collection and other administrative services. Sales representatives vary from experienced people with years of freight industry experience and established client relationships to telemarketing personnel cold calling shippers and dispatchers. Third party logistics companies provide numerous services to clients on an outsourced basis, by contract and on demand. The continued growth of this industry has created secondary market opportunities to provide low-cost delivery to the endpoint, in addition to supply chain services of warehousing, inventory management and electronic interface with customers and suppliers. Third party logistics companies provide customized domestic and international freight transportation of customers' goods and packages via truck, rail, airplane and ship, and 3 provide warehousing and storage of those goods. Many companies utilize information systems and expertise to reduce inventories, cut transportation costs, speed delivery and improve customer service. The third-party logistics services business has been bolstered in recent years by the competitiveness of the global economy, which causes shippers to focus on reducing handling costs, operating with lower inventories and shortening inventory transit times. Using a network of transportation, handling and storage providers in multiple transportation modes, third-party logistics services companies seek to improve their customers' operating efficiency by reducing their inventory levels and related handling costs. Many third-party logistics service providers are non-asset-based, primarily utilizing physical assets owned by others in multiple transport modes. The third-party logistics services business increasingly relies upon advanced information technology to link the shipper with its inventory and as an analytical tool to optimize transportation solutions. This trend favors the larger, more professionally managed companies that have the resources to support a sophisticated information technology infrastructure. By outsourcing all non-core business services to third party providers, companies can help to control costs, eliminate staff and focus on internal business. Operations and systems In our brokerage services, we process approximately 3,600 freight orders per month. Our sales agents throughout the United States and Canada receive customers' freight requirements daily. All agents make appropriate carrier arrangements for the pick-up and timely delivery of customers' freight. In our contract carrier services, we process approximately 850 freight orders per month. Our sales agents in our seven regional operating centers and representatives in nine states receive customers' freight requirements daily and, utilizing their respective owner-operators, make appropriate carrier arrangements for the pick-up and timely delivery of customers' freight. In addition, utilizing various sources including numerous internet based freight posting boards, our agents locate additional freight to maximize utilization of available capacity and minimize deadhead miles, or miles driven generating little or no revenue. A typical owner-operator will generate $2,500 per week in revenues. Our sales agents vary in level of experience from agents with years of freight industry experience and established client relationships to a more limited number of inexperienced telemarketing and operations personnel working under the direct supervision and training of experienced sales agents and dispatchers. We rely exclusively on independent third parties for our hauling capacity. These third party capacity providers consist of our independent owner-operators, unrelated trucking companies, air cargo carriers and railroads. Our use of capacity provided by our independent owner-operators, and other third party capacity providers, allows us to maintain a lower level of capital investment, resulting in lower fixed costs. We utilize a state-of-the-art proprietary internet based order entry system. All agents access our web-based platform and orders are entered into a customized traffic management system, which enables us to monitor the status of all orders, generate customer billing and provide detailed transactional reports in our Florida corporate headquarters. We use these reports to monitor customer logistics and transportation usage, track customer and carrier historical data, generate detailed financial and accounting data and provide our customers with details of their supply chain activity. We maintain dual off-site storage and back-up facilities to insure data integrity and safety. Suppliers We use the services of various third party transportation companies. During 2005, no third party provider handled more than 10% of our shipping volume (measured by revenue). 4 Customers We strive to establish long-term customer relationships and, by providing a full range of logistics and supply chain services, we seek to increase our level of business with each customer. We service customers ranging from Fortune 100 companies to small businesses in a variety of industries. During 2005, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. We typically receive credit applications from all customers, review credit references and perform credit checks to ensure credit worthiness. Sunteck has achieved revenue growth through the addition of independent sales agents, the opening of new operations offices, an increase in the number of customers serviced, and the expansion of the logistics and supply chain services we provide. Each operations office markets our full range of supply chain services to existing customers and pursues new customers within its local markets. We build new customer relationships by exploiting our range of logistics and supply chain services, the traffic lanes we commonly service, carrier relationships and capabilities, our industry specific expertise and our sales agents individual knowledge and experience. Our growth model is focused on adding sales agents in strategic markets. As this agent network is further established and expanded, we believe that significant other opportunities will emerge. Larger sales agents offices often have their own equipment (truck space), which presents the opportunity to maximize available freight and load capacity thereby increasing gross margins above historical levels. In addition, sales representatives will be added to regional operating office sales agent locations to increase market penetration. Since representatives work on a commission basis, this expansion essentially comes at no additional overhead outlay. Significant opportunities for expansion and growth also includes strategic alliances with other service freight broker groups. This strategy will enable us to achieve strong regional penetration into new geographical markets and increase back office capabilities to service the agent network. Competition The transportation industry is highly competitive and highly fragmented. In our brokerage services, our primary competitors are other non-asset based as well as asset based third party logistics companies, freight brokers, carriers offering logistics services and freight forwarders. In our contract carrier services, our competitors are other contract carriers and common carriers. We also compete with customers' and shippers' internal traffic and transportation departments as well as carriers internal sales and marketing departments directly seeking shippers' freight. We generally compete on the basis of price and the range of logistics and supply chain services offered. Government regulation Our industry has long been subject to government legislation and regulation. Over the years, many changes in these laws and regulations have affected the industry and caused changes in the operating practices and the cost of providing transportation services. We cannot predict what effect, if any, legislative and regulatory changes may have on the industry in the future. We are licensed by the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) as a broker arranging the movement of materials by motor carrier. In this capacity, we are required to meet certain qualifications to enable us to conduct business, which includes the compliance with certain surety bond requirements. We are also licensed by the DOT as a contract carrier arranging the movement of materials by motor carrier. In this capacity, we are required to meet certain qualifications to enable us to conduct business, which includes the maintenance of $1,000,000 of general liability insurance and $100,000 of cargo insurance. 5 If we fail to comply with, or lose, any required licenses, governmental regulators could assess penalties or issue a cease and desist order against our operations that are not in compliance. Risk and liability In our brokerage services, we do not assume liability for loss or damage to freight; we act as the shipper's agent and arrange for a carrier to handle the freight. Therefore, we do not take possession of the shipper's freight and, accordingly, we are not liable for the carrier's negligence or failure to perform. We do assist our customers in the processing and collection of any claim. The Federal Highway Administration requires us to maintain a surety bond of $10,000, which is intended to show our financial responsibility and provide surety for the arrangements with shippers and carriers. In addition, we maintain $100,000 of contingent cargo liability insurance. In our contract carrier services business, we are liable for loss or damage to our customers' freight. We maintain cargo liability insurance coverage with a policy limit of $100,000 per occurrence. We have not incurred any material losses to date. Any such losses in excess of insurance limits would be accounted for as incurred for financial reporting purposes. Employees As of March 3, 2006, we had 35 full-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Available Information Our website address is www.suntecktransport.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Forms 3, 4 and 5, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers such as us that file electronically with the SEC. The website address is www.sec.gov. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information provided in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our business, operations and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, such as competitive conditions, may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 We are dependent upon independent commissioned sales agents who have direct relationships with our customers. A substantial portion of our business is originated by our network of independent sales agents. Most of these sales agents work with us on an exclusive basis. We do not have non-compete or non-solicitation agreements with these agents. These contracts are typically terminable upon 10 to 30 days notice by either party and do not restrict the ability of a former agent to compete with Sunteck following termination. As a result, if sales representatives terminate their affiliation with us, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are dependent on third party capacity providers. We do not own trucks or other transportation equipment and rely on third party capacity providers, including independent owner operators, unrelated trucking companies, railroads and air cargo carriers to transport freight for our customers. We compete with motor carriers and other third parties for the services of independent owner operators and other third party capacity providers. A significant decrease in available capacity provided by either our independent owner operators or other third party capacity providers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and revenue. Decreased demand for transportation services could adversely affect our operating results. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical financial results as a result of slowdowns in economic activity, the business cycles of customers, price increases by capacity providers, interest rate fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. Certain of our third party capacity providers can be expected to charge higher prices to cover increased operating expenses, and our operating income may decline if we are unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of these higher transportation costs. If a slowdown in economic activity or a downturn in our customers' business cycles causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have limited marketing and sales capabilities and must make sales in fragmented markets. Our future success depends, to a great extent, on our ability to successfully market our services through our network of independent agents. Our sales and marketing capabilities are more limited than many of our competitors who have captive internal sales forces and greater financial resources than us. We cannot assure you that any marketing and sales efforts undertaken on our behalf will be successful or will result in any significant sales. Our industry is intensely competitive, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results. All our markets are intensely competitive and numerous companies offer services that compete with our services. We anticipate that competition for our services will continue to increase. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, sales and marketing resources and experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with our competitors in effecting our business expansion plans. We depend on the continued services of our president. Our future success depends, in part, on the continuing efforts of our president, Harry Wachtel, who conceived our strategic plan and who is responsible for executing that plan. The loss of Mr. Wachtel would adversely affect our business. At this time we do not have any term "key man" insurance on Mr. Wachtel. If we lose the services of Mr. Wachtel, our business, operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 7 We must attract and retain qualified personnel. As we implement our business growth strategy, significant demands will be placed on our managerial, financial and other resources. One of the keys to our future success will be our ability to attract and retain highly qualified marketing, sales and administrative personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in these areas is intense and we will be competing for their services with companies that have substantially greater resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, attract and retain personnel with skills and experience necessary and relevant to the future operations of our business. Our inability to retain or attract qualified personnel in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may require additional financing in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms. Depending on our ability to generate revenues, we may require additional funds to expand our business operations and for working capital and general corporate purposes. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financings may involve restrictive covenants that limit our ability to make decisions that we believe will be in our best interests. In the event we cannot obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us when required, our ability to expand operations may be materially adversely affected. Our principal stockholders have substantial control over our affairs. As of March 7, 2006, our president, Harry Wachtel, owned approximately 16.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Further, James T. Martin owned and Kinderhook Partners, LP, two significant stockholders, owned approximately 19.7% and 19.4%, respectively, of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, either Mr. Wachtel, Mr. Martin or Kinderhook Partners, LP could assert control over our affairs, including the election of directors and any proposals regarding a sale of the company or its assets or a merger. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination which you, as a stockholder, may otherwise view favorably. Our stock price is volatile and could be further affected by events not within our control. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. For the 52-week period ended March 7, 2006, our closing stock price has ranged from $0.40 to $0.67. On March 7, 2006, our closing stock price was $0.65. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and will continue to be subject to: o volatility in the trading markets generally; o significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; and o announcements regarding our business or the business of our competitors. Statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market as a whole has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market price for the securities of many small-cap companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. 8 The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the possible issuance of shares of our common stock as a result of the exercise of outstanding options. We have granted options covering approximately 7.1 million shares of our common stock. As a result of the actual or potential sale of these shares into the market, our common stock price may decrease. Future sales of our common stock may adversely affect our common stock price. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of common stock or if we issue a large number of shares in connection with future acquisitions or financings, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell a large number of shares of common stock could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Some provisions in our charter documents and bylaws may have anti-takeover effects. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, with the result that it may deter potential suitors. For example, our board of directors is authorized, without action of the stockholders, to issue authorized but unissued common and preferred stock. The existence of authorized but unissued common and preferred stock enables us to discourage or to make it more difficult to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. We have agreed to limitations on the potential liability of our directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, in general, directors will not be personally liable for monetary damages to the company or our stockholders for a breach of fiduciary duty. Although this limitation of liability does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission, the presence of these provisions in the certificate of incorporation could prevent us from recovering monetary damages. Liquidity on the otc bulletin board is limited, and we may be unable to obtain listing of our common stock on a more liquid market. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American or New York Stock Exchange) or an automated quotation system (such as the Nasdaq National or SmallCap Market). We do not currently meet the minimum trading price requirement for listing on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market or the American Stock Exchange. There is uncertainty that we will ever be accepted for a listing on an automated quotation system or securities exchange. Our common stock has been thinly traded, and the public market may provide little or no liquidity for holders of our common stock. Purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. There is currently a limited volume of trading in our common stock, and on many days there has been no trading activity at all. Due to the historically low trading price of our common stock, many brokerage firms may be unwilling to effect transactions in our common stock, particularly because low-priced securities are subject to an SEC rule that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell low-priced securities (generally those below $5.00 per share). We cannot predict when or whether investor interest in our common stock might lead to an increase in its market price or the development of a more active trading market or how liquid that market might become. The application of the "penny stock" rules could adversely effect the market price of our common stock. 9 As long as the trading price of our common stock is below $5.00 per share, the open-market trading of our common stock will be subject to the "penny stock" rules. The "penny stock" rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction before the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the broker-dealer must deliver, before the transaction, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell the common stock and may affect a stockholder's ability to resell the common stock. Stockholders should be aware that, according to Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. 