Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information provided in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our business, operations and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, such as competitive conditions, may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon independent commissioned sales agents who have direct relationships with our customers. A substantial portion of our business is originated by our network of independent sales agents. Most of these sales agents work with us on an exclusive basis pursuant to contracts with terms ranging from one to five years. However, certain agent contracts are terminable upon thirty days notice by either party. These contracts typically contain non-compete and non-solicitation provisions. Notwithstanding these provisions, we may not be able to restrict the ability of a former agent from competing with us following termination. As a result, if sales representatives terminate their affiliation with us, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to expand the number of our sales agents, or if a significant number of our existing sales agents leave us, our ability to increase our revenue could be negatively impacted. Our ability to expand our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional sales agents. Competition for qualified brokerage agents can be intense, and we may be unable to attract such persons. Any difficulties we experience in expanding sales agents could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our customer base, increase our revenue, and continue our growth. In addition, we must retain our current sales agents and properly incentivize them to obtain new customers and maintain existing customer relationships. If a significant number of our sales agents leave us, our revenue could be negatively impacted. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our current sales agents could also increase our recruiting costs and decrease our operating efficiency. As part of our business, we periodically extend uncollateralized loans and advances to our independent sales agents and have collection risk associated therewith. As part of our agent support services, we periodically extend loans and/or advances, often uncollateralized, to our independent sales agents to support and encourage the expansion of their businesses. Recovery of these loans and advances depends to a large extent on the borrowers’ ability to generate revenue, which essentially is commissions on sales that they generate. If the agent is not successful in generating sales, or if the agent or we should decide to disaffiliate from each other, our ability to recover these loan amounts may be impaired. We are dependent on third party capacity providers. We do not own trucks or other transportation equipment and rely on third party capacity providers, including independent owner operators, unrelated trucking companies, railroads and air cargo carriers to transport freight for our customers. We compete with motor carriers and other third parties for the services of independent owner operators and other third party capacity providers. A significant decrease in available capacity provided by either our independent owner operators or other third party capacity providers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and revenue. 7 Table of Contents Our third-party carriers must meet our needs and expectations, and those of our customers, and their inability to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business depends to a large extent on our ability to provide consistent, high quality, technology-enabled transportation and logistics solutions. We do not own or control the transportation assets that deliver our customers’ freight, and we do not employ the people directly involved in delivering the freight. We rely on third parties to provide less-than-truckload, truckload and, intermodal brokerage and domestic air services and to report certain information to us, including information relating to delivery status and freight claims. This reliance could cause delays in providing our customers with timely delivery of freight, important service data, and in the financial reporting of certain events, including recognizing revenue and recording claims. If we are unable to secure suffi cient transportation services to meet our customer commitments, or if any of the third parties we rely on do not meet our needs or expectations, or those of our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. If we are unable to maintain the level of service we currently provide to our customers, our reputation may be damaged, resulting in a loss of business. We compete with other transportation providers based on reliability, delivery time, security, visibility, and personalized service. Our reputation is based on the level of customer service that we currently provide. If this level of service deteriorates, or if we are prevented from delivering on our services in a timely, reliable, safe and secure manner, our reputation and business may suffer. Our reliance on independent owner operators to provide transportation services to our customers could limit our expansion. Our transportation services are conducted in part by independent owner operators, who are generally responsible for paying for their, own equipment, fuel, and other operating costs. Our independent owner operators are responsible for providing the tractors and trailers they use related to our business. Certain factors, such as increases in fuel costs, insurance costs, and the cost of new and used tractors, or reduced financing sources available to independent owner operators for the purchase of equipment, could create a difficult operating environment for independent owner operators. Turnover and bankruptcy among independent owner operators in the over-the-road freight sector, often limits the pool of qualified independent owner operators and increases the competition among carriers for their services. If we are required to increase the amounts paid to independent owner operators in order to obtain their services, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent increased expenses are not offset by higher freight rates. Additionally, our agreements with our independent owner operators are terminable by either party upon short notice and without penalty. Consequently, we regularly need to recruit qualified independent owner operators to replace those who have left our pool. If we are unable to retain our existing independent owner operators or recruit new independent owner operators, our results of operations and ability to expand could be adversely affected. A decrease in levels of capacity in the over-the-road freight sector could have an adverse impact on our business. Recently, the over-the-road freight sector has experienced levels of excess capacity. The current operating environment in the over-the-road freight sector resulting from an economic recession, fluctuating fuel costs, and other economic factors is beginning to cause a reduction in capacity in the sector generally, and in our carrier network specifically, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business. 8 Table of Contents Decreased demand for transportation services could adversely affect our operating results. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical financial results as a result of slowdowns in economic activity, the business cycles of customers, price increases by capacity providers, interest rate fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. Certain of our third party capacity providers can be expected to charge higher prices to cover increased operating expenses, and our operating income may decline if we are unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of these higher transportation costs. If a slowdown in economic activity or a downturn in our customers’ business cycles causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. One or more significant claims, our failure to adequately reserve for such claims, or the cost of maintaining our insurance for such claims, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We use the services of thousands of transportation companies and their drivers in connection with our transportation operations. From time to time, these drivers are involved in accidents and goods carried by these drivers are lost or damaged, and the carriers may not have adequate insurance coverage. Such accidents usually result in equipment damage and, unfortunately, can also result in injuries or death. Although these drivers are not our employees and all of these drivers are independent contractors or work for third-party carriers, from time to time claims may be asserted against us for their actions or for our actions in retaining them. Claims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, or may not be covered by insurance a t all. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, claims for lost or damaged goods, liability claims, or workers compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of any such claims, could adversely affect our results of operations to the extent claims are not covered by our insurance or such losses exceed our reserves. Significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could also reduce our profitability and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A significant or prolonged economic downturn, particularly the current downturn in the over-the-road freight sector, or a substantial downturn in our customers’ business, could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The over-the-road freight sector has historically experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to, among other things, economic recession, downturns in business cycles, increasing costs and taxes. Fluctuations in energy prices, price increases by carriers, changes in regulatory standards, license and registration fees, interest rate fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. All of these factors could increase the operating costs of a vehicle and impact capacity levels in the over-the-road freight sector. Carriers may charge higher prices to cover higher operating expenses, and our operating income may decrease if we are unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of higher purchased transportation costs. Additionally, economic conditions may adversely affect our customers, their need for our services, or their ability to pay for our services. The cost of compliance with, liability for violations of, or modifications to existing or future governmental regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to certain federal, state, and local regulatory requirements. These regulations and requirements are subject to change based on new legislation and regulatory initiatives, which could affect the economics of the transportation industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the cost of providing, transportation services. The DOT, and its agencies, such as the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, and various state and local agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as engaging in motor carrier operations, freight forwarding, and freight brokerage operations, as well as regulating safely. As a motor carrier authorized by the DOT, we must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including th ose relating to drug and alcohol testing, driver qualification, and hours-of service. There also are regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specifications of equipment, product handling requirements, and hazardous material requirements. In addition, we must comply with certain safety, insurance, and bonding requirements promulgated by the DOT and various stale agencies. Compliance with existing, new, or more stringent measures could disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries and our ability to satisfy the needs of our customers. In addition, we may experience an increase in operating costs, such as security costs, as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. The cost of compliance with existing or future measures could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, we could become subject to liabilities as a result of a failure to com ply with applicable regulations. 9 Table of Contents If our independent contractors are deemed by regulators to be employees, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Tax and other regulatory authorities have in the past sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. There can be no assurance that these authorities will not successfully assert this position or that tax laws and other laws that currently consider these persons independent contractors will not change. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, we would incur additional exposure under federal and state law, workers compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment, and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee benefits and tax withholdings. Our business model relies on the fact that our independent contractors are independent contractors and not deemed to be our employees, and exposure to an y of the above factors could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have limited marketing and sales capabilities and must make sales in fragmented markets. Our future success depends, to a great extent, on our ability to successfully market our services through our network of independent agents. Our sales and marketing capabilities are more limited than many of our competitors who have captive internal sales forces and greater financial resources than us. We cannot assure you that any marketing and sales efforts undertaken on our behalf will be successful or will result in any significant sales. Our industry is intensely competitive, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results. All our markets are intensely competitive and numerous companies offer services that compete with our services. We anticipate that competition for our services will continue to increase. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, sales and marketing resources and experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with our competitors in effecting our business expansion plans. We depend on the continued services of our president, chief financial officer and chief operating officer. Our future success depends, in part, on the continuing efforts of our president, Harry Wachtel, who conceived our strategic plan and is responsible for executing that plan, our chief financial officer, William Wunderlich, and our chief operating officer, Michael Williams. The loss of any of Messrs. Wachtel, Wunderlich or Williams would adversely affect our business. We do not have any term “key man” insurance on any of them. If we lose any of their services, our business, operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents We must attract and retain qualified personnel. As we implement our business growth strategy, significant demands will be placed on our managerial, financial and other resources. One of the keys to our future success will be our ability to attract and retain highly qualified marketing, sales and administrative personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in these areas is intense and we will be competing for their services with companies that have substantially greater resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, attract and retain personnel with skills and experience necessary and relevant to the future operations of our business. Our inability to retain or attract qualified personnel in these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may require additional financing in the future, which may not be available on acceptable terms. Depending on our ability to generate revenues, we may require additional funds to expand our business operations and for working capital and general corporate purposes. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financings may involve restrictive covenants that limit our ability to make decisions that we believe will be in our best interests. In the event we cannot obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us when required, our ability to expand operations may be materially adversely affected. Our principal stockholders have substantial control over our affairs. As of March 17, 2010, our president, Harry Wachtel, beneficially owned approximately 18.7% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Further, James T. Martin, Kinderhook Partners, LP and Investors Management Corporation, three significant stockholders, owned approximately 18.7%, 18.0% and 13.5%, respectively, of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, any one or a combination of Mr. Wachtel, Mr. Martin, Kinderhook Partners, LP or Investors Management Corporation could assert control over our affairs, including the election of directors and any proposals regarding a sale of the company or its assets or a merger. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination which you, as a stockholder, may otherwise view favorably. Our stock price is volatile and could be further affected by events not within our control. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. For the 52-week period ended March 16, 2010, our closing stock price has ranged from $0.53 to $0.25. On March 16, 2010, our closing stock price was $0.34. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and will continue to be subject to: · volatility in the trading markets generally; · fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; and · announcements regarding our business or the business of our competitors. Statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market as a whole is currently experiencing extreme price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market price for the securities of many small-cap companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. 11 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the possible issuance of shares of our common stock as a result of the exercise of outstanding options. We have granted options covering approximately 11.1 million shares of our common stock. As a result of the actual or potential sale of these shares into the market, our common stock price may decrease. Future sales of our common stock may adversely affect our common stock price. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of common stock or if we issue a large number of shares in connection with future acquisitions or financings, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell a large number of shares of common stock could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Some provisions in our charter documents and bylaws may have anti-takeover effects. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, with the result that it may deter potential suitors. For example, our board of directors is authorized, without action of the stockholders, to issue authorized but unissued common and preferred stock. The existence of authorized but unissued common and preferred stock enables us to discourage or to make it more difficult to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. We have agreed to limitations on the potential liability of our directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, in general, directors will not be personally liable for monetary damages to the company or our stockholders for a breach of fiduciary duty. Although this limitation of liability does not affect the availability of equitable remedies such as injunctive relief or rescission, the presence of these provisions in the certificate of incorporation could prevent us from recovering monetary damages. Liquidity on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board is limited, and we may be unable to obtain listing of our common stock on a more liquid market. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a national securities exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq World or Capital Markets. We do not currently meet the minimum trading price requirement for listing on any of these exchanges and there is uncertainty that we will ever be accepted for a listing on any of these exchanges. Our common stock has been thinly traded, and the public market may provide little or no liquidity for holders of our common stock. Purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. There is currently a limited volume of trading in our common stock, and on many days there has been no trading activity at all. Due to the historically low trading price of our common stock, many brokerage firms may be unwilling to effect transactions in our common stock, particularly because low-priced securities are subject to an SEC rule that imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell low-priced securities (generally those below $5.00 per share). We cannot predict when or whether investor interest in our common stock might lead to an increase in its market price or the development of a more active trading market or how liquid that market might become. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 