Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information and risks set forth in this report. We have a history of losses. For the Fiscal 2007, we had a gross profit of $1.7 million generated from net sales of $38.4 million with which to cover sales, marketing, research, development and general administrative costs. Our sales, marketing, research, development and general administrative costs have historically been a significant percentage of our net sales, due partly to the expenses of developing leads and the relatively long period required to convert leads into sales associated with selling products in the medical and telecommunications markets. For Fiscal 2007, our operating expenses were $8.0 million and exceeded our gross profit by $6.4 million. For Fiscal 2006, our operating expenses were $12.4 million and exceeded our gross profit by $4.6 million. For Fiscal 2005, our operating expenses were $11.2 million and exceeded our gross profit by $450,000. Total net loss for Fiscal 2007 was $5.7 million compared to a net loss in Fiscal 2006 of $6.1 million and a $355,000 net income for Fiscal 2005. Although we expect our operating losses as a percentage of net sales to decline and reach break-even during Fiscal 2008, we may not achieve profitability. We may need to raise additional capital if we do not quickly become profitable. Based on our line of credit availability of $3.7 million at September 1, 2007 and our expectation that we will generate positive cash from operations in Fiscal 2008, we anticipate having sufficient cash resources for at least the next twelve months. The business environment may not be conducive to raising additional debt or equity financing. If we borrow additional money, we may incur significant additional interest charges or other restrictive or onerous provisions, which could harm our operating results. Holders of debt may also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If we raise additional equity, the terms of such financing may dilute the ownership interests of current investors and cause our stock price to fall significantly. We may not be able to secure financing upon acceptable terms at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products or customer base, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could seriously harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We rely on a guarantee from our Chairman in connection with our line of credit facility. Our line of credit facility is backed in part by personal collateral of our Chairman of the Board of Directors. This collateral was essential in securing the underlying line of credit and is essential to the current availability under this credit facility. If this guarantee is no longer available to the Company, the entire line of credit is at risk of being terminated and the outstanding balance due in full. If this were to occur, the Company may not be able to repay the outstanding balance. The price of our stock has been volatile and we could be delisted from the NADSAQ Capital Market. Our common stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and there is a risk we could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuation as a result of variations in our quarterly operating results and volatility in the financial 8 Table of Contents markets. On September 10, 2007, the Company received a notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) stating that the Company is not in compliance with the requirements for continued inclusion under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4), due to the fact that the closing bid price of the Company’s common stock has not exceeded $1.00 for a consecutive 30 day period. NASDAQ stated in its notice that, in accordance with the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, the Company will be provided 180 calendar days, or until March 10, 2008, to regain compliance. If our stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. Additionally, our stock may be subject to “penny stock” regulations if it is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock were subject to “penny stock” regulations, which apply to certain equity securities not traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market which have market price of less that $1.00 per share, subject to limited exceptions, additional disclosure would be required by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving such stock. We may lose business and revenues if we fail to successfully compete for our customers’ business. We face competition from the internal operations of our current and potential OEM customers and from offshore contract manufacturers, which, because of their lower labor rates and other related factors, may enjoy a competitive advantage over us with respect to high-volume production and lower production costs. We expect to continue to encounter competition from other electronics manufacturers that currently provide or may begin to provide contract design and manufacturing services. A number of our competitors may have substantially greater manufacturing, financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we have, and may offer a broader scope and presence of operations on a worldwide basis. Significant competitive factors in the microelectronics market include price, quality, design capabilities, responsiveness, testing capabilities, the ability to manufacture in very high volumes and proximity to the customers’ final assembly facilities. While we have competed favorably in the past with respect to these factors, this is a particularly fast changing market, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so in the future. We are often one of two or more suppliers on any particular customer requirement and are, therefore, subject to continuing competition on existing programs. In order to remain competitive in any of our markets, we must continually provide timely and technologically advanced design capabilities and manufacturing services, ensure the quality of our products, and compete favorably with respect to turnaround and price. If we fail to compete favorably with respect to the principal competitive factors in the markets we serve, we may lose business and our operating results may be reduced. Fluctuations in the price and supply of components used to manufacture our products may negatively affect our results of operations. Substantially all of our manufacturing services are provided on a turnkey basis in which we, in addition to providing design, assembly and testing services, are responsible for the procurement of the components that are assembled by us for our customers. Although we attempt to minimize margin erosion as a result of component price increases, in certain circumstances we are required to bear some or all of the risk of such price fluctuations, which could adversely affect our operating results. To date, we have generally been able to negotiate contracts that allow us to adjust our prices on a periodic basis (typically quarterly, semi-annually, or annually); however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in all cases. In order to assure an adequate supply of certain key components that have long procurement lead times, such as integrated circuits, we occasionally must order such components prior to receiving formal customer purchase orders for the assemblies that require such components. Failure to accurately anticipate the volume or timing of customer orders can result in component shortages or excess component inventory, which in either case could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Single source components and component shortages. Certain of the assemblies manufactured by us require one or more components that are ordered from, or which may be available from, only one source or a limited number of sources. Delivery problems relating to components purchased from any of our key suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. From time to time, our suppliers allocate components among their customers in response to supply shortages. In some cases, supply shortages will substantially curtail production of all assemblies using a particular component. In addition, at various times there have been industry-wide shortages of electronic components. While we have not experienced sustained periods of shortages of components in the recent 9 Table of Contents past, there can be no assurance that substantial component shortages will not occur in the future. Any such shortages could negatively affect our operating results. Our costs may increase significantly if we are unable to forecast customer orders and production schedules. The level and timing of orders placed by customers vary due to the customers’ attempts to balance their inventory, changes in customers’ manufacturing strategies, and variations in demand for the customers’ products. Due in part to these factors, many of our customers do not commit to firm production schedules more than several months in advance of requirements. Our inability to forecast the level of customers’ orders with certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and optimize utilization of manufacturing capacity. This uncertainty could also significantly increase our costs related to manufacturing product. In the past, we have been required to increase staffing and incur other expenses in order to meet the anticipated demands of our customers. From time to time, anticipated orders from some of our customers have failed to materialize and delivery schedules have been deferred as a result of changes in a customer’s business needs, both of which have adversely affected our operating results. On other occasions, customers have required rapid increases in production that has placed an excessive burden on our resources. There can be no assurance that we will not experience similar fluctuations in customer demand in the future. We may be unable to realize net sales from our backlog. We compute our backlog from purchase orders received from our customers and from other contractual agreements. Our customer purchase orders and contracts typically preserve the customer’s right to cancel with appropriate notice. As such, even though we may have contractual agreements or purchase orders for future shipments, there is no guarantee that this backlog will be realized in net sales. Future quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate substantially due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control and could cause our stock price to decline. We have experienced substantial fluctuations in our annual and quarterly operating results, and such fluctuations may continue in future periods. Our operating results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: we may manufacture products that are custom designed and assembled for a specific customer’s requirement in anticipation of the receipt of volume production orders from that customer, which may not always materialize to the degree anticipated, if at all; we may incur significant start-up costs in the production of a particular product, which costs are expensed as incurred and for which we attempt to seek reimbursement from the customer; we may experience fluctuations and inefficiencies in managing inventories, fixed assets, components and labor, in the degree of automation used in the assembly process, in the costs of materials, and the mix of materials, labor, manufacturing, and overhead costs; we may experience unforeseen design or manufacturing problems, price competition or functional competition (other means of accomplishing the same or similarly packaged end result); we may be unable to pass on cost overruns; we may not be able to gain the benefits expected out of lean-flow manufacturing at our Victoria facility; we may not have control over the timing of expenditures, customer product delivery requirements and the range of services provided; and we may experience variance in the amount and timing of orders placed by a customer due to a number of factors, including inventory balancing, changes in manufacturing strategy, and variation in product demand attributable to, among other things, product life cycles, competitive factors, and general economic conditions. Any one of these factors, or a combination of one or more factors, could adversely affect our annual and quarterly operating results, which in turn may cause our stock price to decline. We may fail to adequately adjust our expenses to predicted net sales in any given period or we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly net sales because the sales cycle for our products and services is lengthy and unpredictable. While our sales cycle varies from customer to customer, it historically has ranged from two to 12 months. Our pursuit of sales leads typically involves an analysis of our prospective customer’s needs, preparation of a written proposal, one or more presentations and contract negotiations. Our sales cycle may also be affected by the complexity of the product to be developed and manufactured as well as a prospective customer’s budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews, over which we have little or no control. As a result of this variability, combined with the fact that many of our expenses are fixed, we may fail to adequately adjust our expenses to predicted net sales in any given period or we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly net sales. 10 Table of Contents We may have a significant accounts receivable write-off as well as an increase in inventory reserve due to the inability of our customers to pay their accounts. We may carry significant accounts receivable and inventory in connection with providing manufacturing services to our customers. If one or more of our principal customers were to become insolvent, or otherwise fail to pay for the services and materials provided by us, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our business success may be adversely affected by our ability to hire and retain employees. Our continued growth and success depend to a significant extent on the continued service of senior management and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. We rely upon the acquisition and retention of employees with extensive technological experience. Competition for skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in recruiting new personnel and retaining existing personnel. Some of our employees are subject to employment agreements that can be terminated upon providing 30 days advance, written notice by either party. The majority of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, are employees at will. The loss of one or more key employees may materially adversely affect our growth. We operate in a regulated industry, and our products and revenue are subject to regulatory risk. We are subject to a variety of regulatory agency requirements in the United States and foreign countries relating to many of the products that we develop and manufacture. The process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals and otherwise remaining in regulatory compliance can be lengthy, expensive and uncertain. The FDA inspects manufacturers of certain types of devices before providing a clearance to manufacture and sell such devices, and the failure to pass such an inspection could result in delay in moving ahead with a product or project. We are required to comply with the FDA’s QSR for the development and manufacture of medical products. In addition, in order for devices we design or manufacture to be exported and for us and our customers to be qualified to use the “CE” mark in the European Union, we maintain ISO 9001/EN 46001 certification which, like the QSR, subjects our operations to periodic surveillance audits. To ensure compliance with various regulatory and quality requirements, we expend significant time, resources and effort in the areas of training, production and quality assurance. If we fail to comply with regulatory or quality regulations or other FDA or applicable legal requirements, the governing agencies can issue warning letters, impose government sanctions and levy serious penalties. Noncompliance or regulatory action could have a negative impact on our business, including the increased cost of coming into compliance, and an adverse effect on the willingness of customers and prospective customers to do business with us. Such noncompliance, as well as any increased cost of compliance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our customers do not promptly obtain regulatory approval for their products, our projects and net sales may be adversely affected. The FDA regulates many of our customers’ products, and requires certain clearances or approvals before new medical devices can be marketed. As a prerequisite to any introduction of a new device into the medical marketplace, our customers must obtain necessary product clearances or approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies. This can be a slow and uncertain process, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be obtained on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, products intended for use in foreign countries must comply with similar requirements and be certified for sale in those countries. A customer’s failure to comply with the FDA’s requirements can result in the delay or denial of approval to proceed with the product. Delays in obtaining regulatory approval are frequent and, in turn, can result in delaying or canceling customer orders. There can be no assurance that our customers will obtain or be able to maintain all required clearances or approvals for domestic or exported products on a timely basis, if at all. The delays and potential product cancellations inherent in the regulatory approval and ongoing regulatory compliance of products we develop or manufacture may have a material adverse effect on our projects and revenue, as well as our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with our debt covenants may require us to immediately repay our outstanding balances and/or may affect our ability to borrow funds in the future, either of which may adversely affect our future operating results. At various times over the past five years, we have not been in compliance with our debt covenants. These defaults have had the effect of, among other things, increasing the cost of our financing. 11 Table of Contents Failure to meet our debt covenants in the future may require us to: further increase borrowing rates; incur amendment fees; incur additional restrictions on our ability to borrow additional funds; immediately repay our outstanding balances; find a new lender, which may cause us to incur costs in connection with such new lending relationship; and reduce the number of potential alterative lenders. Any one of these factors, or a combination of one or more factors, could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds in the future or adversely affect future operating results or our ability to continue operations. We may fail to have enough liquidity to operate our business because we may not adequately adjust our expenses to actual revenue in any given period, which may dramatically and negatively impact our cash flow. Our basis for determining our ability to fund our operations depends on our ability to accurately estimate our revenue streams and our ability to accurately predict our related expenditures. Furthermore, our borrowing base is tied to eligible accounts receivable and inventory balances. As a result, we may fail to adequately adjust our expenses to actual revenue in any given period or we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly revenue, either of which may dramatically and negatively affect our cash flow. If the components that we design and manufacture are the subject of product recalls or a product liability claim, our business may be damaged, we may incur significant legal fees and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Certain of the components we design or manufacture are used in medical devices, several of which may be used in life-sustaining or life-supporting roles. The tolerance for error in the design, manufacture or use of these components and products may be small or nonexistent. If a component we designed or manufactured is found to be defective, whether due to design or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons, the product may need to be recalled, possibly at our expense. Further, the adverse effect of a product recall on our business might not be limited to the cost of the recall. Recalls, especially if accompanied by unfavorable publicity or termination of customer contracts, could result in substantial costs, loss of revenues and damage to our reputation, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The manufacture and sale of the medical devices involves the risk of product liability claims. Although we generally obtain indemnification from our customers for components that we manufacture to the customers’ specifications and we maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the indemnities will be honored or the coverage of our insurance policies will be adequate. Further, we generally provide a warranty and indemnify our customers for failure of a product to conform to specifications and against defects in materials and workmanship. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage was denied or limited and for which indemnification was not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of a key customer may reduce our operating results and financial condition. The loss of a key customer could adversely effect our operating results and financial condition. In Fiscal 2007, two customers accounted for 14% and 11% of our net sales and the same customers accounted for 10% and 15%, respectively, of our net sales for Fiscal 2006, and 10% and 6%, respectively, for Fiscal 2005. Also in Fiscal 2005, one additional customer accounted for 13% of net sales. No other customer was over 10% of net sales in Fiscal 2007, Fiscal 2006 or Fiscal 2005. Although our objective is to reduce the concentration of sales to any customers, we expect that sales to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of net sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or a decline in orders from, any one of our key customers would materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are working to maintain a focused yet diverse market and customer mix. New customers and programs can have a significant ramp up effort associated with getting the product ready for delivery. The efforts associated with managing a more diversified customer base and projects could prove to be more difficult than previously thought and could result in loss of customers and net sales. If we are unable to develop new products and services our net sales could decrease. Our products are subject to rapid obsolescence and our future success will depend upon our ability to develop new products and services that meet changing customer and marketplace requirements. Our products are based upon specifications from our customers. We may not be able to satisfactorily design and manufacture customer products based upon these specifications. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to properly anticipate the market for new products and service we may lose net sales. Even if we are able to successfully identify, develop and manufacture as well as introduce new products and services, there is no assurance that a market for these products and services will materialize to the size and extent that we anticipate. If a market does not materialize as we anticipate, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The following factors could affect the success of our products and services in the microelectronic and other marketplaces: the failure to adequately equip our manufacturing plant in anticipation of increasing business; the failure of our design team to develop products in a timely manner to satisfy our present and potential customers; and our limited experience in specific market segments in marketing our products and services. Our business may suffer if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. It is our policy to protect all proprietary information through the use of a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law to protect our intellectual property rights. There is no assurance that these agreements, provisions and laws will be adequate to prevent the imitation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary systems and products is difficult and, while we are unable to determine the extent to which infringement of our intellectual property exists, infringement could be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent that the laws of the United States protect our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property rights are not protected, our business may suffer if a competitor uses our technology to capture our business, which could cause our sales and our stock price to decline. Furthermore, even if the agreements, provisions and intellectual property laws prove to be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may develop products or technologies that are both non-infringing and substantially equivalent or superior to our manufacturing methods, processes or technologies. Third-party intellectual property infringement claims may be costly and may prevent the future sale of our customer’s products. Substantial litigation and threats of litigation regarding intellectual property rights exist in our industry. Third parties may claim that our customer’s products or our manufacturing methods, processes or technologies infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Defending against third-party infringement claims may be costly and divert important management resources. Furthermore, if these claims are successful, we may have to pay substantial royalties or damages, assist in removing the infringing customer’s products from the marketplace or expend substantial amounts in order to modify the customer’s products so that they no longer infringe on the third party’s rights. We may pursue future significant corporate transactions, such as acquisitions, divestitures or investments that may adversely affect our financial position or cause our net sales to decline or loss per share to increase. In the future, we may pursue significant corporate transactions, such as acquisitions, divestitures or investments in businesses, products and technologies that could focus, complement or expand our business. Such transactions, though, involve certain risks such as: we may not be able to negotiate acceptable terms with respect to an acquisition, divestiture or investment, or finance an acquisition or investment successfully; a divestiture could reduce consolidated sales volumes and any economies associated with a larger enterprise; the integration of acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business may fail; and we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities, accept credit risk or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets which could cause our results of operations to suffer. If our customers are unable to gain market acceptance for the products that we develop or manufacture for them, we may lose net sales. We design and manufacture components for other companies. For products we manufacture, our success is dependent on the acceptance of those products in their markets. Market acceptance may depend on a variety of factors, including educating the target market regarding the use of a new product or procedure. Market acceptance and market share are also affected by the timing of market introduction of competitive products. Some of our customers, especially emerging growth companies, have limited or no experience in marketing their products and may be unable to establish effective sales and marketing and distribution channels to rapidly and successfully commercialize their products. If our customers are unable to gain any significant market acceptance for the products we develop or manufacture for them, our business will be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations we may be fined and prohibited from manufacturing products. As a small generator of hazardous substances, we are subject to local governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances, such as waste oil, acetone and alcohol that are used in very small quantities to manufacture our products. While we are currently in compliance with applicable regulations, if we fail to comply with these regulations, substantial fines could be imposed on us and we could be required to suspend production, alter manufacturing processes or cease operations. We are dependent on a single market, and adverse trends in that market may reduce our revenues. During the past several years, we have been significantly dependent on a single market. In Fiscal 2007, Fiscal 2006 and Fiscal 2005, 85%, 84% and 87%, respectively, of our net sales came from the medical/hearing market. This market is characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, significant fluctuations in product demand and significant pressure on vendors to reduce or minimize cost. Accordingly, we may be adversely affected by these market trends to the extent that they reduce our revenues. In particular, if manufacturers in the medical/hearing market develop new technologies that do not incorporate our products, or if our competitors offer similar products at a lower cost to such manufacturers, our revenues may decrease and our business would be adversely affected. A significant amount of our non-hearing instrument industry sales are made in the medical products industry, which is characterized by trends similar to those in the hearing instrument manufacturer industry. Our orders are subject to cancellation and cancellation can disrupt our business. In certain circumstances, our customers are permitted to cancel their orders, change production quantities, delay production and terminate their contracts and any such event or series of events may adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. We, as a medical/hearing device development and manufacturing service provider, must provide product output that matches the needs of our customers, which can change from time to time. We generally do not obtain long-term commitments from our customers and we continue to experience reduced lead times in customer orders. In certain situations, cancellations, reductions in quantities, delays or terminations by a significant customer could adversely affect our operating results. Such cancellations, reductions or delays have occurred and may continue to occur in response to slowdowns in our customers’ businesses or for other reasons. In addition, we make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, parts procurement commitments, and personnel needs based on our estimates of customer requirements. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand or a termination of a contract by a customer could adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. Inventory management is critical to maximizing our cash flow. Inventory risk and production delay may adversely affect our financial performance. Most of our contract manufacturing services are provided on a turnkey basis, where we purchase some or all of the materials required for product assembling and manufacturing. We bear varying amounts of inventory risk in providing services in this manner. In manufacturing operations, we need to order parts and supplies based on customer forecasts, which may be for a larger quantity of product than is included in the firm orders ultimately received from those customers and this cost may limit our available funds for other purposes. While many of our customer agreements include provisions that require customers to reimburse us for excess inventory which we specifically order to meet their forecasts, we may not actually be reimbursed or be able to collect on these obligations. In that case, we could have excess inventory and/or cancellation or return charges from our suppliers. Our medical/hearing device manufacturing customers continue to experience fluctuating demand for their products, and in response they may ask us to reduce or delay production. If we delay production, our financial performance may be adversely affected. If government or insurance company reimbursements for our customers’ products change, our products, revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Governmental and insurance industry efforts to reform the healthcare industry and reduce healthcare spending have affected, and will continue to affect, the market for medical devices. There have been several instances of changes in governmental or commercial insurance reimbursement policies that have significantly impacted the markets for certain types of products or services or that have had an impact on entire industries, such as recent policies affecting payment for nursing home and home care services. Adverse governmental regulation relating to our components or our customers’ products that might arise from future legislative, administrative or insurance industry policy cannot be predicted and the ultimate effect on private insurer and governmental healthcare reimbursement is unknown. Government and commercial insurance 14 Table of Contents companies are increasingly vigorous in their attempts to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products even if approved for marketing by the FDA. If government and commercial payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for uses of our customers’ products, the market acceptance of these products and our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. We have customers located in foreign countries and our unfamiliarity of the laws and business practices of such foreign countries could cause us to incur increased costs. We currently have customers located in foreign countries and anticipate additional customers located outside the United States. Our lack of knowledge and understanding of the laws of, and the customary business practices in, foreign counties could cause us to incur increased costs in connection with disputes over contracts, environmental laws, collection of accounts receivable, holding excess and obsolete inventory, duties and other import and export fees, product warranty exposure and unanticipated changes in governmental regimes. We have excess space available for sublease at our Colorado facility and may not be able to find qualified sublease tenants. Our lease agreement at our Colorado facility allows for us to sublease out any excess space, subject to the approval of our landlord. We currently have a tenant for a portion of the facility and are actively looking for additional sublease tenants to sublease up to 55,000 square feet of vacant space or space that could be made available through changes in the current layout of the operation. Our ability to find additional sublease tenants will have an impact on the operating performance of that division if we cannot provide an offset to our base rent and facility operating costs. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended, may discourage lawsuits and other claims against our directors. Our articles of incorporation provide, to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law, that our directors shall have no personal liability for breaches of their fiduciary duties to us. In addition, our bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law. These provisions may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their duty. We have issued numerous options to acquire our common stock that could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of September 1, 2007, we had options outstanding to acquire 883,000 shares of our common stock, exercisable at prices ranging from $1.28 to $20.38 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $5.64 per share. During the terms of these options, the holders will have the opportunity to profit from an increase in the market price of our common stock with resulting dilution to the holders of shares who purchased shares for a price higher than the respective exercise or conversion price. The market price of our common stock may be reduced by future sales of our common stock in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market that are not currently freely tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and could impair the ability of purchasers of our common stock to recoup their investment or make a profit. As of September 1, 2007, these shares consist of: • 1,363,000 shares beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors; and • approximately 1,835,000 shares issuable to option and warrant holders. Unless the shares of our outstanding common stock owned by our executive officers and directors are further registered under the securities laws, they may not be resold except in compliance with Rule 144 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or some other exemption from registration. Rule 144 does not prohibit the sale of these shares but does place conditions on their resale that must be complied with before they can be resold. The trading dynamics of our common stock makes it subject to large fluctuations in the per share value. Our common stock is a micro-stock that is thinly traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. In some cases, our common stock may not trade during any given day. Small changes in the demand for shares of our common stock can have a material impact, both negatively and positively, in the trading share price of our stock. In addition, the Company’s common stock could become delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market which could further impact the per share value and trading volumes of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue shares of undesignated stock, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors, without further action by our shareholders. Undesignated stock authorized by the board of directors may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemptive rights and sinking fund provisions that could affect the rights of the holders of our common stock and reduce the value of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also prevent a potential takeover because the terms of any issued preferred stock may require the approval of the holders of the outstanding shares of preferred stock in order to consummate a merger, reorganization or sale of substantially all of our assets or other extraordinary corporate transaction. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation also require the affirmative vote of a supermajority (80%) of the voting power for the following matters: to approve the merger or consolidation of us or any subsidiary with or into any person that directly or indirectly beneficially owns, or owned at any time in the preceding 12 months, five percent or more of the outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote in elections of directors, referred to as a “Related Person”; to authorize the sale of substantially all of our assets to a Related Person; to authorize the issuance of any of our voting securities in exchange or payment for the securities or assets of any Related Person, if such authorization is otherwise required by law or any agreement; to adopt any plan for the dissolution of us; and to adopt any amendment, change or repeal of certain articles of the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, including the articles that establish the authority of the Board of Directors, the supermajority voting requirements and the classified Board of Directors. These provisions may have the effect of deterring a potential takeover or delaying changes in control or our management. If we are not able to establish an effective control environment in Fiscal 2008, we will not comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to internal controls over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we attest as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending August 30, 2008, referred to as Fiscal 2008. Under applicable SEC rules and regulations, management may not conclude that a company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective if there are one or more material weaknesses in the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We have initiated the process of documenting our internal control process and our evaluation of those controls. We cannot provide any assurance that we will timely complete the evaluation of our internal controls, including implementation of the necessary improvements to our internal controls, or that even if we do complete this evaluation and make such improvements, we will do so in time to permit us to test our controls and complete our attestation procedures in a manner that will allow us to comply with the applicable SEC rules and regulations relating to internal controls over financial reporting by the filing deadline for our Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2008. The market price of our shares may experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons over which we have little control. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be volatile. The closing price of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ Capital Market has ranged from a high of $4.53 to a low of $0.65 over the past two years. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks relating to an investment in our stock described above and the following: new products or services offered by us or our competitors; actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments or divestitures by us or our competitors; issuances of debt or equity securities; changes in requirements or demands for our services; technological innovations by us or our competitors; quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ operating results; changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services; changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates; changes in financial or earnings estimates by market analysts; speculation in the press or analyst community; general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries; and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Capital Market and companies in our industry, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the 16 Table of Contents operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would harm our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 