Risk Factors The following factors, among others, could cause our future results to differ from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks identified in this section are not exhaustive. We operate in a dynamic and competitive environment. New risk factors affecting us emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors. Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any single factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these inherent risks and uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business or results of operations in the future. In addition, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following discussion of the Company’s risk factors speaks only as of the date on which they were made and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included herein. Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Our future results depend on the success of our principal product lines. Sales of our reconstructive products accounted for approximately 74% of our net sales for the period July 12, 2007 to May 31, 2008; 72% for the period June 1, 2007 to July 11, 2007; approximately 71% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 and approximately 68% of our net sales for fiscal 2006. We expect sales of reconstructive products to continue to account for a significant portion of our aggregate sales. Any event adversely affecting the sale of reconstructive products may, as a result, adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to continue to develop and market new products and technologies in a timely manner, the demand for our products may decrease or our products could become obsolete, and our revenue and profitability may decline. The market for our products is highly competitive and dominated by a small number of large companies. We are regularly engaged in product development, research and improvement efforts. New products and line 22 Table of Contents extensions of existing products represent a significant component of our growth rate. Our ability to continue to grow sales effectively depends on our capacity to keep up with existing or new products and technologies in the musculoskeletal products market. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming and approvals and clearances might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals and clearances for future products could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, if our competitors’ new products and technologies reach the market before our products, they may gain a competitive advantage or render our products obsolete. See “Business—Competition” elsewhere in this annual report for more information about our competitors. The ultimate success of our product development efforts will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to create innovative designs and materials, provide innovative surgical techniques, accurately anticipate and meet customers’ needs, commercialize new products in a timely manner, and manufacture and deliver products and instrumentation in sufficient volumes on time. Moreover, research and development efforts may require a substantial investment of time and resources before we are adequately able to determine the commercial viability of a new product, technology, material or other innovation. Even in the event that we are able to successfully develop innovations, they may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and may be quickly rendered obsolete as a result of changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. We and our customers are subject to substantial government regulation and compliance and any potential non-compliance with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Overall, there appears to be a trend toward more stringent regulation throughout the world and we do not anticipate this trend to dissipate in the near future. In general, the development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. The regulatory process requires the expenditure of significant time, effort and expense to bring new products to market. In addition, we are required to implement and maintain stringent reporting, labeling and record keeping procedures. The medical device industry also is subject to a myriad of complex laws governing Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and health care fraud and abuse laws, with these laws and regulations being very complex and subject to interpretation. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In certain public statements, governmental authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation was previously available. Some of these positions appear to be inconsistent with common practices within the industry but have not previously been challenged. Various federal and state agencies have become increasingly vigilant in recent years in their investigation of various business practices. Governmental and regulatory actions against us can result in various actions that could adversely impact our operations, including: • the recall or seizure of products; • the suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production or sale of a product; • the suspension of shipments from particular manufacturing facilities; • the imposition of fines and penalties; • the delay of our ability to introduce new products into the market; 23 Table of Contents • the exclusion of our products from being reimbursed by federal and state health care programs (such as Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs and Civilian Health and Medical Program Uniformed Service, or CHAMPUS); and • other civil or criminal sanctions against us. Any of these actions, in combination or alone, or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things: clinical efficacy, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import/export restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries, such as the European Medical Devices Directive, are similar to those of the FDA. In addition, in many countries the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. Failure to receive or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications also could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As both the U.S. and foreign government regulators have become increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the International Standards Organization. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. We, like other companies in the orthopedic industry, are involved in ongoing investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the results of which may adversely impact our business and results of operations. In June 2006, we received a federal grand jury subpoena issued at the request of the U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, requesting documents for the period from January 2001 through June 2006 regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violations of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopedic implant devices. We are aware of similar subpoenas directed to other companies in the orthopedic industry. We have cooperated and intend to continue to fully cooperate with the Department of Justice investigation. The result of this investigation may not be known for several years. However, the scope of the June 2006 subpoena was narrowed to a specific geographic region and specific product lines. It is our belief that the other orthopedic companies that received similar subpoenas have received similar guidance. It is our belief that the investigation was prompted by an unsolicited e-mail sent by a representative of one of our competitors that proposed a common pricing strategy in connection with a particular hospital. This e-mail was received by an independent sales representative of an independent distributor for Biomet Orthopedics, but it was never transmitted to us. Biomet, Inc., the independent distributor, nor the independent sales representative took any action in response to the e-mail, and we believe that no anticompetitive activity took place as a result of it. We require compliance by our employees and our independent distributors with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and with applicable antitrust laws. On March 26, 2008, we received a letter from a representative of the Department of Justice, Antitrust Division I, advising that the Department has closed its grand jury investigation of antitrust and related offenses in the orthopedic implants industry. We have received complaints in class action lawsuits alleging violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act that raise the same antitrust issues as the U.S. Department of Justice investigation described above. The complaints also named various other companies in the orthopedic industry as defendants. These cases were consolidated under the caption In Re Orthopedic Implant Device Antitrust Litigation, Case No. 1:07-ml-9831-JDT-WTL with the United States District Court Southern District Indianapolis, Indiana Division, and on October 18, 2007 were voluntarily dismissed without prejudice. 24 Table of Contents In May 2007, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice through the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of West Virginia requesting documents generally relating to a certain number of products manufactured, marketed and sold by the EBI subsidiary for the period from January 1999 through the present. In June 2007, we received a second administrative subpoena from the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of West Virginia requesting documents relating to a specific physician’s assistant. We understand that the Department of Justice is conducting a civil investigation of EBI’s sales and marketing practices relating to certain spinal products. We are fully cooperating with the request of the Department of Justice. We can make no assurances as to the time or resources that will be needed to devote to this inquiry or its final outcome. From time to time, we have been, and may be in the future, the subject of additional investigations. If, as a result of these investigations, we are found to have violated one or more applicable laws, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If some of our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we may have to change those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement or the Corporate Integrity Agreement we entered into in September 2007, our results of operation and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As discussed in “—Legal Proceedings,” on September 27, 2007 we entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey. The agreement concludes the government’s investigation into whether consulting agreements between the largest orthopedic manufacturers and orthopedic surgeons who use joint reconstruction and replacement products may have violated the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Through the agreement, the U.S. Attorney’s Office has agreed not to prosecute Biomet, Inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiary Biomet Orthopedics, Inc. in connection with this matter, provided that we satisfy our obligations under the agreement for 18 months subsequent to September 27, 2007. The agreement calls for the appointment of an independent monitor to review our compliance with the agreement, particularly in relation to our consulting agreements. Please see “Legal Proceedings” for certain regulatory and governmental investigations the outcomes of which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to comply with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. As part of the resolution of this matter, we entered into a $26.9 million settlement with the Department of Justice’s Civil Division and we also entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG-HHS. The agreement requires us for 5 years subsequent to September 27, 2007 to continue to adhere to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and certain other provisions, including reporting requirements. The Deferred Prosecution Agreement imposes a number of continuing obligations on us for the duration of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, including the obligation not to engage in any criminal conduct, and contains provisions permitting the Department of Justice in certain circumstances in its discretion to pursue remedies against us if we have knowingly and willfully breached any material provisions of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement or engaged in criminal conduct relating to our compliance with health care laws subsequent to September 27, 2007, including excluding us from participation in federal healthcare programs and prosecution against us for violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which would have a material adverse effect on our business results of operation and financial condition. Please see “Legal Proceedings” for certain ongoing regulatory and governmental investigations involving us. Compliance with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and Corporate Integrity Agreement requires cooperation by many employees and others and may divert substantial financial and human resources from our other business activities. We are committed to continue to devote sufficient resources to meet our obligations under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and Corporate Integrity Agreement. Compliance with these agreements requires 25 Table of Contents substantial cooperation of our employees, distributors and sales agents and the healthcare professionals with whom they interact. These efforts not only involve expense, but also require management and other key employees to focus extensively on these matters. The ongoing informal investigation by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States Department of Justice regarding potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. On September 25, 2007, we received a letter from the SEC informing us that it is conducting an informal investigation regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries by companies in the medical devices industry. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their officers, directors, employees, shareholders acting on their behalf and agents from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment and this law requires companies to maintain records which fairly and accurately reflect transactions and to maintain internal accounting controls. In many countries, hospitals and clinics are government-owned and healthcare professionals employed by such hospitals and clinics, with whom we regularly interact, may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If we are found to have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, we may face sanctions including fines, criminal penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with government agencies or receive export licenses. On November 9, 2007, we received a letter from the Department of Justice requesting any information provided to the SEC be provided to the Department of Justice on a voluntary basis. We intend to fully cooperate with both requests and we are in the process of conducting our own review relating to these matters in certain countries in which we and our distributors conduct business and have met and expect to continue to meet with the SEC and the DOJ to update them on the status of our review. We could be subject to further governmental investigations or actions by other third parties as a result of our recent settlement with the Department of Justice and OIG-HHS. As discussed in “Business-Government Regulation”, we are subject to various federal and state laws concerning healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws and anti-kickback laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration (VA) health programs. These laws are administered by, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and state attorneys general. Many of these agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. As discussed in “—Legal Proceedings,” the SEC has commenced an informal investigation into sales by us and other companies of medical devices in foreign countries. In addition, we are in the process of conducting our own review relating to these matters and are also cooperating with the U.S. Department of Justice and one state attorney general. While we believe that the pending state investigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition additional claims or investigations by private plaintiffs or other states or governmental agencies are possible. We intend to review and take appropriate actions with respect to any such investigations or proceedings; however, we cannot assure that the costs of defending or fines imposed in resolving those civil or criminal investigations or proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks and may adversely affect our results due to increased costs. During the period July 12, 2007 to May 31, 2008, the period June 1, 2007 to July 11, 2007, and fiscal 2007 and 2006, we derived approximately $883.1 million, or 41% of our net sales, $92.6 million, or 37% of our net sales, $800.9 million, or 38% of our net sales, and $700.6 million, or 35% of our net sales, respectively, from sales of our products outside of the United States. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: • changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in staffing, training and managing foreign operations; • differing legal and labor regulations; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and • political and economic instability. In addition, we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our costs and may adversely affect our results. The U.S. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Measured in local currency, the majority of our foreign-generated revenues were generated in Europe. Significant increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our consolidated net sales were positively affected by approximately 4% during fiscal 2008 as a result of the impact of foreign currency translation. At the present time, we do not engage in hedging transactions related to net sales to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between any particular foreign currency and the U.S. dollar. Any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We conduct manufacturing operations outside of the United States and are in the process of transitioning certain manufacturing operations to China, which will expose us to additional business risks. In addition to our principal executive offices, we maintain more than 50 other manufacturing facilities, offices and warehouse facilities in various countries, including Canada, Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America. We currently conduct operations in Jinhua, Zhejiang Province, China. Our future business strategy involves the operation of other manufacturing facilities in China. As a result of this initiative, we may be exposed to additional risks inherent in operating in an emerging market like China where we have not previously operated a manufacturing facility. In recent years the Chinese economy has undergone various developments, including beginning the transition from a more heavily government influenced-planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Despite this transition, the Chinese government continues to own significant production assets and exercises significant control over economic growth. Our international operations, including our planned expansion in China, may be subject to greater or new political, legal and economic risks than those faced by our operations in the United States, including such risks as those arising from: • unexpected changes in foreign or domestic legal, regulatory or governmental requirements or approvals, such as those related to taxation, lending, import and tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, intellectual property and other matters; 27 Table of Contents • unexpected increases in taxes, tariffs and other assessments; • diminished protection of intellectual property; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in staffing, training and managing foreign operations; • differing legal and labor regulations; • political and economic instability; and • operating in a market with a less developed supply chain, transportation and distribution infrastructure. Due to these inherent risks, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any anticipated benefits from transitioning manufacturing operations to China and any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by our inability to effectively implement restructuring and cost saving initiatives. Following consummation of the Merger, we commenced plans for a global cost savings program targeting pre-tax savings of $65 million on an annualized basis. The program includes the transition of certain manufacturing operations to China, the restructuring of our domestic and international corporate structure and improvements to operating processes (including manufacturing footprint optimization, implementation of Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing, procurement and offshoring initiatives, as well as reduction in overhead expenses). Projected costs and savings associated with these initiatives are subject to a variety of risks, including: • contemplated costs to effect these initiatives may exceed estimates; • initiatives we are contemplating may require consultation with various employees, labor representatives or regulators, and such consultations may influence the timing, costs and extent of expected savings; • initiatives will also require close coordination with customers with respect to the transfer of existing business to other company locations, and certain business may not ultimately be retained as a result of the possible transition of certain operations; • management changes at various strategic business units, including Biomet Trauma and Biomet Spine, may be unsuccessful in improving or stabilizing our business at those strategic business units; • the loss of skilled employees in connection with the initiatives; and • projected savings contemplated under this program may fall short of targets. While we have begun and expect to continue to implement, these strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully or that we will realize the projected benefits of these and other restructuring and cost saving initiatives. If we are unable to realize these anticipated cost reductions, our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, our continued implementation of restructuring and cost saving initiatives integration may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be harmed as a result of litigation. Our involvement in the manufacture and sale of medical devices creates exposure to significant risk of product liability claims, particularly in the United States. In the past, we have received product liability claims relating to our products and anticipate that we will continue to receive claims in the future, some of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, we could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of some of our products. Our existing product liability insurance coverage 28 Table of Contents may be inadequate to satisfy liabilities we might incur. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or is in excess of our insurance coverage limits, our business could suffer and our results could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, the musculoskeletal products industry is highly litigious with respect to the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property rights. In some cases, intellectual property litigation may be used to gain a competitive advantage. We have in the past and may in the future become a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. A legal proceeding, regardless of the outcome, could put pressure on our financial resources and divert the time, energy and efforts of our management. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and results of operation, in some cases materially. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. If someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to fulfill or otherwise resolve our existing royalty and other payment obligations to consulting surgeons and institutions, our ability to maintain our existing intellectual property rights and obtain future rights may be impaired. We are reviewing agreements we have entered into with consulting surgeons and institutions and assessing whether we continue those agreements in light of our obligations under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. If we are not able to continue these agreements, our ability to use the intellectual property covered by those agreements may be adversely affected. In addition, our ability to enter into new agreements with consulting surgeons or institutions for the future development of intellectual property rights may be adversely affected. Sales may decline if our customers do not receive adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors for our products and if certain types of healthcare programs are adopted in our key markets. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase our products (e.g., hospitals, physicians, dentists and other health care providers) generally rely on payments from third-party payors (principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans) to cover all or a portion of the cost of our musculoskeletal products. These third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. In the event that third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of reimbursement, we may be unable to sell certain products on a profitable basis, thereby materially adversely impacting our results of operations. Further, third-party payors are continuing to carefully review their coverage policies with respect to existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that may include the use of our products. 29 Table of Contents In addition, some healthcare providers in the United States have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. Healthcare providers in a managed care system may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures, including joint reconstructive surgeries, or by requiring the use of the least expensive implant available. In response to these and other pricing pressures, our competitors may lower the prices for their products. We may not be able to match the prices offered by our competitors, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations and future prospects. Further, in the event that the United States considers the adoption of a national healthcare system in which prices are controlled and patient care is managed by the government, such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly from country to country. In the majority of the international markets in which our products are sold, government-managed healthcare systems mandate the reimbursement rates and methods for medical devices and procedures. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of our products may decline. Many foreign markets, including Canada, and some European and Asian countries, have tightened reimbursement rates. Our ability to continue to sell certain products profitably in these markets may diminish if the government-managed healthcare systems continue to reduce reimbursement rates. Our management has identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting was ineffective as of May 31, 2008. We are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting on an annual basis and to include in our annual report on Form 10-K management’s report on that assessment. If there are any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that are identified, then our management is not permitted to conclude in its report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment resulted in the identification of a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. Consequently, our management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of May 31, 2008. We have identified a material weakness related to multiple control deficiencies in the order to cash process in both the design and operation of controls at one of our subsidiaries, BTBS. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our management is in the process of developing remediation steps to correct the material weakness that was identified. We cannot be certain our remediation efforts will ensure that our management designs, implements and maintains adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate the material weakness identified. Our inability to remedy the identified material weakness or any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses could, among other things, cause accounting errors or other inaccuracies in our financial statements or could cause us to fail to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner or require us to incur additional costs or to divert management resources. Due to its inherent limitations, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentations. These limitations may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud, regardless of their effectiveness. We are subject to cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Many customers of our products have joined group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. Group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products and if the group purchasing 30 Table of Contents organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could impact our business. We depend on our senior managers and other key personnel to run our business and on technical experts to develop new products and technologies. The loss of any of these senior managers or other key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the management, operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to expand, conduct research and development activities successfully and develop marketable products. Increased costs of retaining existing independent sales agents of our products have negatively affected our results of operations and if we fail to retain our existing relationships with these independent sales agents or establish relationships with different agents, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Our revenues and results of operations depend largely on the ability of independent sales agents to sell our products to customers. Typically, these agents have developed long-standing relationships with our customers and provide our customers with the necessary training and product support relating to our products. The average tenure of our independent sales agents within our subsidiary Biomet Orthopedics, LLC, or Biomet Orthopedics, is nine years. Following the announcement of the Merger Agreement, in an attempt to exploit the uncertainty related to the pending transaction, one of our direct competitors approached the independent sales agents we work with and offered them incentives to discontinue their existing relationships with us. In an effort to ensure the continuity of our relationships with the independent third-party distributors who represent Biomet Orthopedics, we incurred $39 million in fiscal 2007, $18 million for the period from June 1, 2007 to July 11, 2007 and $82 million for the period from July 12, 2007 to May 31, 2008, of compensation related pay-outs, which negatively affected our results of operations for these periods. A significant amount of these expenses that were incurred in fiscal 2008 were incurred prior to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2008. In addition, we and Biomet Orthopedics recently initiated legal proceedings in Marion County, Indiana against a direct competitor and certain former independent sales agents related to the foregoing. See “Legal Proceedings” elsewhere in this annual report. If we fail to retain our existing relationships with these agents or establish relationships with different agents, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. A natural or man-made disaster could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have approximately 21 manufacturing operations located throughout the world. However, a significant portion of our products are produced at and shipped from our facility in Warsaw, Indiana. In the event that this facility is severely damaged or destroyed as a result of a natural or man-made disaster, we would be forced to shift production to our other facilities and/or rely on third-party manufacturers. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any expansion or acquisition may prove risky for us. We may, from time to time, consider and take advantage of selected opportunities to grow by acquiring businesses whose operations or product lines fit well within our existing businesses or whose geographic location or market position would enable us to expand into new markets. Our ability to implement this expansion strategy 31 Table of Contents will, however, depend on whether any suitable businesses are available at suitable valuations, how much money we can spend and maintaining our customer base. Any acquisition that we make could be subject to a number of risks, including, failing to discover liabilities of the acquired company for which we may be responsible as a Successor owner or operator despite any investigation we may make before the acquisition, our ability to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired company, the loss of key personnel in the acquired company and any impact on our financial statements from the amortization of acquired intangible assets or the creation of reserves or write-downs. We may not be able to adequately meet these challenges, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness to finance these acquisitions, the related risks we face from our already substantial level of indebtedness could intensify. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash to fulfill our obligations under our existing indebtedness, our ability to react to changes in our business and our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund future needs. We are highly leveraged. As of May 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of approximately $6,300.8 million. The following chart shows our level of indebtedness as of May 31, 2008: ($ in millions) European facilities $ 46.6 Senior secured term loan facilities 3,683.5 Senior secured cash flow revolving credit facility — Senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility — Senior cash pay notes 775.0 Senior toggle notes 775.0 Senior subordinated notes 1,015.0 Premium on debt 5.7 Total $ 6,300.8 After the Transactions, our interest expense, net for the period July 12, 2007 to May 31, 2008 was $516.3 million. As of May 31, 2008, we had outstanding approximately $3,683.5 million in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities that bear interest at a floating rate. We have entered into a series of interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rates on approximately 78% of the borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk.” An increase of 0.125% in these floating rates would increase our annual interest expense on the borrowings that are not subject to the interest rate swap agreements by approximately $2.0 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences for our creditors, including our noteholders. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other purposes; 32 Table of Contents • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • limit our noteholders’ rights to receive payments under the notes if secured creditors have not been paid; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to dispose of assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes; and • prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of certain changes of control, which would constitute a default under the indentures governing the notes. Restrictions imposed by the indentures governing the notes, our senior secured credit facilities and our other outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business and to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes restrict us and our subsidiaries from engaging in specified types of transactions. These covenants restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or indebtedness; • make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions; • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our restricted subsidiaries; • engage in transactions with our affiliates; • sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; • consolidate or merge; • create liens; and • enter into sale and lease-back transactions. In addition, although the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes do not require us to comply with any financial ratio maintenance covenants, if less than $35 million (plus 10% of any increased commitments thereunder) were available under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility at any time, we would not be permitted to borrow any additional amounts under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility unless we maintain a certain pro forma ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA minus Capital Expenditures minus Cash Taxes to (b) Consolidated Fixed Charges (as such terms are defined in our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility). In the event of a default under any of our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable. If the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities or the notes were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. In particular, noteholders will be paid only if we have assets remaining after we pay amounts due on our secured indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities. As of May 31, 2008: • we have an additional approximately $400 million of borrowing capacity under our senior secured cash flow revolving credit facility, which, if borrowed, would be senior indebtedness; 33 Table of Contents • we and the guarantors have the option to increase the asset-based revolving credit facility commitments under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility by up to $100 million, which, if borrowed, would be senior secured indebtedness; and • we and the guarantors have $111 million available for borrowing under our European line of credit In addition, under the senior toggle notes, we have the option to elect to pay PIK interest for five years after September 25, 2007 for any interest period. In the event we make a PIK interest election in each period in which we are entitled to make such an election, our debt will increase by the amount of such interest. We, including our subsidiaries, will have the ability to incur substantially more indebtedness, including senior secured indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In addition to the $750 million which is available to us for borrowing under the revolving credit facilities, we have the option to increase the amount available under the term loan and revolving credit facilities by an amount which would cause our senior secured leverage ratio, as defined in our credit agreements, to be no higher than 4.5 to 1. As of May 31, 2008, that amount was approximately $300 million. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ existing debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indentures governing the notes may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our noteholders’ right to receive payments on each series of notes is effectively junior to the right of lenders who have a security interest in our assets to the extent of the value of those assets. Our obligations under the notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the notes are unsecured, but our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and each guarantor’s obligations under its 34 Table of Contents guarantee of our senior secured credit facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries and a portion of the stock of certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the notes, even if an event of default exists under the indentures governing the notes at such time. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any guarantor under the notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in the guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims of holders of the notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy their claims in full. See “Description of Other Indebtedness.” As of May 31, 2008, we had: • an additional approximately $400 million of borrowing capacity under our senior secured cash flow revolving facility, which, if borrowed, would be senior secured indebtedness; • an additional $350 million available for borrowing under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, subject to borrowing base limitations, which, if borrowed, would be senior secured indebtedness; • the option to incur additional incremental term loans or increase the cash flow revolving credit facility commitments under our senior secured cash flow facilities of up to an amount that would cause our Senior Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in our senior secured cash flow facilities) to be equal to or less than 4.50 to 1.00, which, if borrowed, would be senior secured indebtedness; and • the option to increase the senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility commitments under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility by up to $100 million, which, if borrowed, would be senior secured indebtedness. Repayment of our debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own a significant portion of our assets and conduct a significant portion of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the indentures governing the notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Claims of noteholders will be structurally subordinated to claims of creditors of all our non-U.S. subsidiaries and some of our U.S. subsidiaries because they will not guarantee the notes. The notes are not guaranteed by any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries or any of our less than wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries. Accordingly, claims of holders of the notes will be structurally subordinated to the claims of creditors of these non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade creditors. All obligations of our non-guarantor subsidiaries will have to be satisfied before any of the assets of such subsidiaries would be available for distribution, upon a liquidation or otherwise, to us or a guarantor of the notes. 35 Table of Contents For the year ended May 31, 2007 and for the periods from June 1, 2007 through July 11, 2007 and from July 12, 2007 through May 31, 2008, our non-guarantor subsidiaries accounted for approximately $780 million, or 37% of our consolidated net sales, $83 million, or 33% of our consolidated net sales, and $500 million, or 23% of our consolidated net sales, for such periods, respectively. As of May 31, 2008, our non-guarantor subsidiaries accounted for approximately $4,242 million, or 35%, of our consolidated long-term assets. All amounts are presented after giving effect to intercompany eliminations. The lenders under our senior secured cash flow facilities will have the discretion to release any guarantors under these facilities in a variety of circumstances, which will cause those guarantors to be released from their guarantees of the notes. While any obligations under our senior secured cash flow facilities remain outstanding, any guarantee of the notes may be released without action by, or consent of, any holder of the notes or the trustee under the indentures governing the notes, at the discretion of lenders under our senior secured cash flow facilities, if the related guarantor is no longer a guarantor of obligations under our senior secured cash flow facilities or any other indebtedness. The lenders under our senior secured cash flow facilities will have the discretion to release the guarantees under our senior secured cash flow facilities in a variety of circumstances. Noteholders will not have a claim as a creditor against any subsidiary that is no longer a guarantor of the notes, and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries will effectively be senior to claims of noteholders. Our noteholders’ right to receive payments on the senior subordinated notes is junior to the rights of the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities and all of our other senior debt (including the senior notes) and any of our future senior indebtedness. The senior subordinated notes are general unsecured senior subordinated obligations that rank junior in right of payment to all of our existing and future senior indebtedness. As of May 31, 2008, we had: • approximately $5,283 million of senior indebtedness outstanding (including $1,550 million in aggregate principal amount of the senior notes and $3,733 million of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities); • an additional approximately $326 million of borrowing capacity under our senior secured cash flow revolving credit facility, which, if borrowed, would be senior indebtedness; • an additional $350 million available for borrowing under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, subject to borrowing base limitations, which, if borrowed, would be senior indebtedness; • the option to incur additional incremental term loans or increase the cash flow revolving credit facility commitments under our senior secured cash flow facilities of up to an amount that would cause our Senior Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in our senior secured cash flow facilities) to be equal to or less than 4.50 to 1.00, which, if borrowed, would be senior indebtedness; • the option to increase the asset-based revolving credit facility commitments under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility by up to $100 million, which, if borrowed would be senior indebtedness; and • an additional $111 million available for borrowing under our European line of credit, which, if borrowed, would be senior indebtedness. In addition, under the senior toggle notes, we will have the option to elect to pay PIK interest for five years after the closing date for any interest period other than the initial interest period. In the event we make a PIK interest election in this period in which we are entitled to make such an election, our debt will increase by the amount of such interest and such additional debt would be senior indebtedness. We may not pay principal, premium, if any, interest or other amounts on account of the senior subordinated notes in the event of a payment default or certain other defaults in respect of certain of our senior indebtedness, 36 Table of Contents including the senior notes and borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, unless the senior indebtedness has been paid in full or the default has been cured or waived. In addition, in the event of certain other defaults with respect to certain of our senior indebtedness, we may not be permitted to pay any amount on account of the senior subordinated notes for a designated period of time. Because of the subordination provisions in the senior subordinated notes, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution, our assets will not be available to pay obligations under the senior subordinated notes until we have made all payments in cash on our senior indebtedness. Sufficient assets may not remain after all these payments have been made to make any payments on the senior subordinated notes, including payments of principal or interest when due. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our senior secured credit facilities that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on the notes and substantially decrease the market value of the notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes. In the event of such default: • the holders of such indebtedness may be able to cause all of our available cash flow to be used to pay such indebtedness and, in any event, could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; • the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation; and • the subordination provisions in the senior subordinated notes may prevent us from paying any obligation with respect to such notes. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. The source of funds for any such purchase of the notes will be our available cash or cash generated from our subsidiaries’ operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the notes that are tendered upon a change of control. Further, we will be contractually restricted under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities from repurchasing all of the notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. Accordingly, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to purchase the notes unless we are able to refinance or obtain waivers under our senior secured credit facilities. Our failure to repurchase the notes upon a 37 Table of Contents change of control would cause a default under the indentures governing the notes and a cross default under our senior secured credit facilities. Our senior secured credit facilities also provide that a change of control will be a default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. The trading price for the notes is directly affected by many factors, including our credit rating. Credit rating agencies regularly revise their ratings for companies they follow. The condition of the financial and credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Any such fluctuation may impact the trading price of the notes. In addition, developments in our business and operations could lead to a ratings downgrade which could adversely affect the trading price of the notes, or the trading market for the notes, to the extent a trading market for the notes exists. Federal and state fraudulent transfer laws may permit a court to void the notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the notes and the guarantees and require noteholders to return payments received. If this occurs, you may not receive any payments on the notes. Federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of the notes and the incurrence of any guarantees. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, the notes or guarantees could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if (1) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, issued the notes or incurred the guarantees with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (2) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing the notes or incurring the guarantees and, in the case of (2) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof: • we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees; • the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees left us or any of the guarantors, as applicable, with an unreasonably small amount of capital to carry on the business; • we or any of the guarantors intended to, or believed that we or such guarantor would, incur debts beyond our or such guarantor’s ability to pay such debts as they mature; or • we or any of the guarantors was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against us or such guarantor if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied. A court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the notes or the applicable guarantee. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. A debtor will generally not be considered to have received value in connection with a debt offering if the debtor uses the proceeds of that offering to make a dividend payment or otherwise retire or redeem equity securities issued by the debtor. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that the issuance of the guarantees would not be further subordinated to our or any of our guarantors’ other debt. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if, at the time it incurred indebtedness: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets; 38 Table of Contents • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. If a court were to find that the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantee was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the notes or such guarantee or further subordinate the notes or such guarantee to presently existing and future indebtedness of ours or of the related guarantor, or require the holders of the notes to repay any amounts received with respect to such guarantee. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, noteholders may not receive any repayment on the notes. Further, the voidance of the notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries’ other debt that could result in acceleration of such debt. Although each guarantee entered into by a guarantor contains a provision intended to limit that guarantor’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective to protect those guarantees from being voided under fraudulent transfer law, or may reduce that guarantor’s obligation to an amount that effectively makes its guarantee worthless. We are indirectly controlled by the Sponsors, and the Sponsors’ interests as equity holders may conflict with the interest of the holders of the notes. We are a subsidiary of Parent and the Sponsors have the ability to control our policies and operations. The interests of the Sponsors may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of the holders of the notes. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of the Sponsors might conflict with these interests. In addition, the Sponsors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to our creditors, including our noteholders. Furthermore, the Sponsors may in the future own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. The Sponsors also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. For information concerning our arrangements with the Sponsors following the Transactions, see “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.” Noteholders will be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on the senior toggle notes even if we do not pay cash interest. None of the interest payments on the senior toggle notes will be qualified stated interest for U.S. federal income tax purposes, even if we never exercise the option to pay PIK interest, because the senior toggle notes provide us with the option to pay cash interest or PIK interest for any interest payment period after the initial interest payment and prior to October 15, 2012. Consequently, the senior toggle notes will be treated as issued with original issue discount for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and U.S. holders will be required to include the original issue discount in gross income on a constant yield to maturity basis, regardless of whether interest is paid currently in cash. See “Certain Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Risks Relating to the Stock Options Investigation Our review of historical stock option granting practices and restatement of consolidated financial statements may result in future litigation or regulatory inquiries, which could harm our financial results. On December 18, 2006 and March 30, 2007, we announced preliminary and updated reports from the Special Committee following the publication of an analyst report suggesting that certain historical stock option grants took place on dates when our stock price was trading at relatively low prices and the filing of two 39 Table of Contents shareholder derivative lawsuits alleging improper “backdating” of options. Based upon the analysis of these reports and relevant accounting literature, including Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 99, our Audit Committee determined on March 30, 2007 that we should amend our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2006 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended August 31, 2006 to reflect the restatement of the consolidated financial statements reflected therein (fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006 and periods ended August 31, 2005 and 2006) and related disclosures reflected therein. On May 25, 2007, our Board of Directors received and discussed the updated findings contained in the Special Committee’s final report, which concluded that: • our written stock option plans were treated by our management, and our Compensation Committee, as formalities concerning the manner in which individual stock option grants were to be approved, resulting in a failure to abide by the terms of the plans; • we failed to receive appropriate legal or accounting advice from our former general counsel and the chief financial officer related to our stock option program and, as a result, relevant legal and accounting rules were not followed; • we failed to put in place and implement internal controls to manage our stock option program, including failing to devote sufficient resources to the administration of our stock option program; • we failed to prepare and maintain appropriate books and records documenting the administration of our stock option program, specifically with regard to the approval of individual stock option grants; • most options issued by us were dated on dates other than the date of grant of those options, as that date was defined by the stock option plans; • we engaged in purposeful “opportunistic” dating (and, therefore, pricing) of options; and • as a result of these deficiencies, certain of our proxy statements were inaccurate. Our review of historical stock option granting practices has required us to incur additional expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, and could in the future adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, including by virtue of exposing us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory and other governmental proceedings. We have also incurred expenses in connection with certain corrective actions approved by our Compensation Committee with respect to misdated or mispriced options, including (a) payments to compensate certain former holders of options whose option exercise prices we increased to the fair market value of the shares underlying such options on the “measurement date” (as that term is defined in SFAS No. 123(R)) for the options and (b) payments to the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, on behalf of certain option holders (and reimbursement of one of our executive officers) to cover taxes and penalties payable by such individuals as a result of their exercise of misdated or mispriced options prior to the date we amended such options to bring them into compliance with (and thereby avoid the taxes and penalties imposed under) section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, as well as gross-up payments to such individuals for any taxes they incur as a result of such payments. In connection with the closing of the Offer, all outstanding options to purchase Shares under our stock plans, vested or unvested, were cancelled and each option holder was paid an amount in cash equal to the excess, if any, of the Offer Price over the applicable option exercise price for each Share subject to an option, less any required withholding taxes. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for the approximately 17,000 stock option awards in question, the SEC or other governmental agencies may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial and other impacts of past stock option grant measurement date errors, and there is a risk that any such inquiry could lead to circumstances in which we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior SEC filings, or otherwise take other actions not currently contemplated by us. Any such circumstance could also lead to future delays in filing our subsequent SEC reports. We cannot assure you that any future litigation or regulatory action will result in the same conclusions as those reached by the Special Committee. The conduct and resolution of 40 Table of Contents these matters may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages, penalties or additional taxes or have other remedies imposed upon us, which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have been named as a party to a number of shareholder derivative lawsuits relating to our historical stock option grant practices, and we may be named in additional lawsuits in the future. This litigation could become time consuming and expensive and could result in the payment of significant judgments and settlements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. On September 21, 2006, two shareholder-derivative complaints were filed against certain of the Company’s current and former officers and directors in Kosciusko Superior Court I in Kosciusko County, in the State of Indiana. The complaints, captioned Long v. Hann, et al., and Thorson v. Hann, et al., alleged violations of state law relating to the issuance of certain stock option awards by Biomet dating back to 1996. Both complaints sought unspecified money damages as well as other equitable and injunctive relief. These two cases were consolidated under the caption In re Biomet, Inc. Derivative Litigation, and on January 19, 2007, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint that made additional allegations based on the Company’s December 18, 2006 disclosures related to stock option awards, including allegations that the defendants sought to sell the Company in order to escape liability for their conduct, and that they did so at a devalued price, thus further breaching their fiduciary duties to shareholders. On February 16, 2007, defendants filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs’ amended complaint. On October 11, 2007, after approval of the Company’s sale by its shareholders, the parties filed supplemental briefs on the issue of whether plaintiffs had standing to sue. On February 5, 2008, the court dismissed the case for lack of standing, and plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend was denied. Plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal of the case to the Indiana Court of Appeals. On December 11, 2006, a third shareholder-derivative complaint captioned International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 98 Pension Fund v. Hann, et al. , No. 06 CV 14312, was filed in federal court in the Southern District of New York. The IBEW case makes allegations and claims similar to those made in the Indiana litigation, in addition to purporting to state three derivative claims for violations of the federal securities laws. On February 15, 2007, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the plaintiff’s complaint. On April 11, 2007, plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment claiming that the disclosures in the Company’s April 2, 2007 Form 8-K filing and press release regarding the Company’s historical stock option granting practices constitute admissions sufficient to establish defendants’ liability on certain of plaintiffs’ claims. On October 11, 2007, after approval of the Company’s sale by its shareholders, the parties filed supplemental briefs on the issue of whether plaintiff had standing to sue. On June 10, 2008, the motion to dismiss was granted without leave to amend due to plaintiff’s lack of standing. Plaintiffs have not filed an appeal. Pursuant to Indiana law and provisions of the Company’s Article of Incorporation, the Company is advancing reasonable expenses, including attorneys’ fees, incurred by the Company’s current and former directors and officers in defending these lawsuits. On May 25, 2007, the Board of Directors received and discussed an updated report from its Special Committee, which concluded that pursuing these shareholder-derivative lawsuits was not in our best interests. Under Indiana law, the Special Committee’s determination may be binding on the pending shareholder- derivative lawsuits and result in dismissal of these lawsuits. We cannot predict the outcome of these current lawsuits, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve them. There may also be additional lawsuits of this nature filed in the future. Defending the current lawsuits and any additional shareholder derivative lawsuits may become time consuming and expensive, and an unfavorable outcome in any of these cases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents In addition, the issues arising from our previous retroactive pricing of options may make it more difficult to obtain director and officer insurance coverage in the future. If we are able to obtain this coverage, it could be significantly more costly than in the past, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. As a result of this and related factors, our directors and officers could face increased risks of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. Consequently, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and officers, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to the Merger We are subject to litigation related to the Merger. On December 20, 2006, a purported class-action lawsuit captioned Long, et al. v. Hann, et al., was filed in Indiana State court in the County of Kosciusko. The Long action names as defendants each member of our Board of Directors at the time, Blackstone Capital Partners V L.P., Goldman Sachs Investments Ltd., KKR 2006 Fund L.P., and TPG Partners V, L.P. In March 2007, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the plaintiff’s complaint. On January 2, 2007, a purported class-action lawsuit captioned Gervasio v. Biomet, Inc., et al. , was filed in Supreme Court for the State of New York, New York County. The Gervasio complaint named as defendants the Company, each member of our Board of Directors at the time, The Blackstone Group L.P. and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. The Gervasio complaint also purported to name as defendants Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and Texas Pacific Group, neither of which is a legally existing entity. On March 26, 2007, the court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the Gervasio action. On March 26, 2007, the court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss Gervasio. A third purported class-action lawsuit captioned Corry v. Biomet, Inc., et al. , was filed in New York state court in the County of New York on January 9, 2007, and was voluntarily discontinued on February 14, 2007. On May 31, 2007, we entered into a memorandum of understanding regarding the settlement of class action lawsuits that were filed on behalf of our shareholders following the announcement of the proposed Merger. The parties to the memorandum of understanding executed a definitive settlement agreement dated as of April 17, 2008, subject to court approval. On April 25, 2008, the parties moved the Indiana State court in the County of Kosciusko for approval of the settlement. On August 6, 2008, the Court gave final approval to the settlement and dismissed the litigation with prejudice. Any conclusion of this litigation in a manner adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the cost to us of defending the litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of this litigation could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 42 Table of Contents 