Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors, among others, could cause our future results to differ from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this annual report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The risks identified in this section are not exhaustive. We operate in a dynamic and competitive environment. New risk factors affecting us emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors. Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any single factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these inherent risks and uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business or results of operations in the future. In addition, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following discussion of our risk factors speaks only as of the date on which they were made and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included herein. Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Business Our future profitability depends on the success of our large joint reconstructive products. Sales of our large joint reconstructive products accounted for approximately 60% for each of the three years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. We expect sales of reconstructive products to continue to account for a significant portion of our aggregate sales. Any event adversely affecting the sale of reconstructive products may, as a result, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to continue to develop and market new products and technologies in a timely manner or at all, the demand for our products may decrease or our products could become obsolete, and our revenue and profitability may decline. The market for our products is highly competitive and dominated by a small number of large companies. We are continually engaged in product development, research and improvement efforts. New products and line extensions of existing products represent a significant component of our growth rate. Our ability to continue to grow sales effectively depends on our capacity to keep up with existing or new products and technologies in the musculoskeletal products market. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time consuming and approvals and clearances might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. On July 29, 2011, the Institute of Medicine (“IoM”) published a report of its review of the 510(k) clearance program to FDA. The IoM report recommended that the FDA pursue a legislative change from the current 510(k) process to an integrated premarket and post-market regulatory framework. It is uncertain if these recommendations will ultimately be pursued. If they are pursued, it is possible we will be required to submit additional clinical and manufacturing information with respect to premarket applications in the future, resulting in increased costs and increased delay in introducing products to the market. Other devices we develop and market fall into a class of products for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and PMA requirements. The PMA process requires us to provide clinical and laboratory data that establishes that the new medical device is safe and effective. The FDA will approve the new device for commercial distribution if it determines that the data and information in the PMA relating to design, materials, bench and animal testing and human clinical data constitute valid scientific evidence and that there is reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. In addition, if our competitors’ new products and technologies reach the market before our products, they may gain a competitive advantage or render our products obsolete. The ultimate success of our 28 Table of Contents product development efforts will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to create innovative designs and materials, provide innovative surgical techniques, accurately anticipate and meet customers’ needs, commercialize new products in a timely manner, and manufacture and deliver products and instrumentation in sufficient volumes on time. Moreover, research and development efforts may require a substantial investment of time and resources before we are adequately able to determine the commercial viability of a new product, technology, material or other innovation. Even in the event that we are able to successfully develop innovations, they may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and may be quickly rendered obsolete as a result of changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. In addition to the impact of the 2.3% excise tax on our results of operations beginning in our fiscal year ending May 31, 2013 following enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (H.R. 3590), our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected if this legislation ultimately results in lower reimbursements for our products or reduced medical procedure volumes or if certain other types of healthcare reform programs are adopted in our key markets. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase our products (e.g., hospitals, physicians, dentists and other healthcare providers) generally rely on payments from third-party payors (principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans) to cover all or a portion of the cost of our musculoskeletal products. These third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors may also decline to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. In the event that third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of reimbursement, we may be unable to sell certain products on a profitable basis, thereby materially adversely impacting our results of operations. Further, third-party payors are continuing to carefully review their coverage policies with respect to existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that may include the use of our products. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted and President Obama signed into law comprehensive healthcare reform legislation through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (H.R. 3590) and the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act (H.R. 4872). Among other initiatives, these bills impose a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices following December 31, 2012, which is estimated to contribute approximately $20 billion to healthcare reform. The law was upheld by a Supreme Court decision that was announced on June 28, 2012. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. Outside of the excise tax, which will impact results of operations following December 31, 2012, we cannot predict with certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what the ultimate effect of federal healthcare reform or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business and results of operations, possibly materially. Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly from country to country. In the majority of the international markets in which our products are sold, government-managed healthcare systems mandate the reimbursement rates and methods for medical devices and procedures. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of our products may decline. Many foreign markets, including Canada, and some European and Asian countries, have tightened reimbursement rates. Our ability to continue to sell certain products profitably in these markets may diminish if the government-managed healthcare systems continue to reduce reimbursement rates. 29 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and negatively affected by substantial government regulations. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Overall, there appears to be a trend toward more stringent regulation throughout the world, and we do not anticipate this trend to dissipate in the near future. In general, the development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. The regulatory process requires the expenditure of significant time, effort and expense to bring new products to market. In addition, we are required to implement and maintain stringent reporting, labeling and record keeping procedures. The medical device industry also is subject to a myriad of complex laws and regulations governing Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and healthcare fraud and abuse laws, with these laws and regulations being subject to interpretation. In many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In certain public statements, governmental authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation was previously available. Some of these positions appear to be inconsistent with common practices within the industry but have not previously been challenged. Various federal and state agencies have become increasingly vigilant in recent years in their investigation of various business practices. Governmental and regulatory actions against us can result in various actions that could adversely impact our operations, including: • the recall or seizure of products; • the suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production or sale of a product; • the suspension of shipments from particular manufacturing facilities; • the imposition of fines and penalties; • the delay of our ability to introduce new products into the market; • the exclusion of our products from being reimbursed by federal and state health care programs (such as Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs and Civilian Health and Medical Program Uniformed Service (“CHAMPUS”); and • other civil or criminal sanctions against us. Any of these actions, in combination or alone, or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, clinical efficacy, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import/export restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries, such as the European Medical Devices Directive, are similar to those of the FDA. In addition, in many countries the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. Failure to receive or delays in the receipt of relevant foreign qualifications also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As both the U.S. and foreign government regulators have become increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, such as the ISO. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our business will be harmed. 30 Table of Contents Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may soon require us to report on “conflict minerals” used in our products and the due diligence plan we put in place to track whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in certain of our products. We, like other companies in the orthopedic industry, are involved in governmental investigations, the results of which may adversely impact our business and results of operations. In September 2010, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) issued by the U.S. Department of Justice Civil Division pursuant to the False Claims Act. The CID requests that we provide documents and testimony related to allegations that we and OtisMed Corp. and Stryker Corp. have violated the False Claims Act relating to the marketing of, and payment submissions for, OtisMed’s OtisKnee™ (a registered trademark of Otis Med) knee replacement system. We have produced responsive documents and are fully cooperating in the investigation. We can make no assurances as to the time or resources that will be needed to devote to this inquiry or its final outcome. In February 2010, we received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services requesting various documents relating to agreements or arrangements between physicians and our Interpore Cross subsidiary for the period from 1999 through the present and the marketing and sales activities associated with Interpore Cross’ spinal products. We are cooperating with the request of the Office of the Inspector General. We can make no assurances as to the time or resources that will be needed to devote to this inquiry or its final outcome. In April 2009, we received an administrative subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting various documents relating primarily to the Medicare reimbursement of and certain business practices related to our EBI subsidiary’s non-invasive bone growth stimulators. It is our understanding that competitors in the non-invasive bone growth stimulation market received similar subpoenas. We received subsequent subpoenas in connection with the investigation in September 2009, June 2010 and February 2011 along with several informal requests for information. We are producing responsive documents and are fully cooperating in the investigation. We can make no assurances as to the time or resources that will be needed to devote to this investigation or its final outcome. In April 2009, we became aware of a qui tam complaint alleging violations of the federal and various state False Claims Acts filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, where it is currently pending. Biomet, LVB and several of our competitors in the non-invasive bone growth stimulation market were named as defendants in this action. The allegations in the complaint are similar in nature to certain categories of requested documents in the above-referenced administrative subpoenas. The U.S. government has not intervened in the action. We are vigorously defending this matter and intend to continue to do so. We can make no assurances as to the time or resources that will be needed to devote to this investigation or its final outcome. On September 25, 2007, we received a letter from the SEC informing us that it was conducting an informal investigation regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), in the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries by companies in the medical devices industry. The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their officers, directors, employees, shareholders acting on their behalf and agents from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment and this law requires companies to maintain records which fairly and accurately reflect transactions and to maintain internal accounting controls. In many countries, hospitals and clinics are government-owned and healthcare professionals employed by such hospitals and clinics, with whom we regularly interact, may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. If we are found to have violated the FCPA, we may face sanctions including fines, criminal penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with government agencies or receive export 31 Table of Contents licenses. On November 9, 2007, we received a letter from the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) requesting any information provided to the SEC be provided to the Department of Justice on a voluntary basis. On March 26, 2012, Biomet entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (“DPA”) with the DOJ and a Consent to Final Judgment (“Consent Agreement”) with the SEC related to these investigations by the DOJ and the SEC. Pursuant to the DPA, the DOJ has agreed not to prosecute the Company in connection with this matter, provided that the Company satisfies its obligations under the agreement over the next three years. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the DPA, an independent external compliance monitor has been appointed to review the Company’s compliance with the DPA, particularly in relation to the Company’s international sales practices, for at least the first 18 months of the three year term of the DPA. The Company agreed to pay a monetary penalty of $17.3 million to resolve the charges brought by the DOJ. The terms of the DPA and the associated monetary penalty reflect the Company’s full cooperation throughout the investigation. The Company contemporaneously reached a Consent Agreement with the SEC to settle civil claims related to this matter. As part of the Consent Agreement, Biomet agreed to the SEC’s entry of a Final Judgment requiring Biomet to disgorge profits and pay prejudgment interest in the aggregate amount of $5.6 million. From time to time, we have been, and may be in the future, the subject of additional investigations. If, as a result of these investigations described above or any additional investigations, we are found to have violated one or more applicable laws, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If some of our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we may have to modify those practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement and the Deferred Prosecution Agreement requires cooperation by many employees and others and may divert substantial financial and human resources from our other business activities. On September 27, 2007 we entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey. The agreement concluded the government’s investigation into whether consulting agreements between the largest orthopedic manufacturers and orthopedic surgeons who use joint reconstruction and replacement products may have violated the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Through the agreement, the U.S. Attorney’s Office agreed not to prosecute Biomet, Inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiary Biomet Orthopedics, LLC in connection with this matter, provided that we satisfied our obligations under the agreement for 18 months subsequent to September 27, 2007. The agreement called for the appointment of an independent monitor to review our compliance with the agreement, particularly in relation to our consulting agreements. The independent monitor filed a final report with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the period from September 27, 2007 through March 1, 2009. On March 27, 2009, the Deferred Prosecution Agreement expired and the complaint was dismissed with prejudice. As part of the resolution of this matter, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG-HHS”). The agreement requires us for five years subsequent to September 27, 2007 to continue to adhere to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and certain other provisions, including reporting requirements. On March 26, 2012, Biomet entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the DOJ related to the DOJ’s FCPA investigation. Pursuant to the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, the DOJ has agreed not to prosecute the Company in connection with this matter, provided that the Company satisfies its obligations under the agreement over the next three years. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, an independent external compliance monitor has been appointed to review the Company’s compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, particularly in relation to the Company’s international sales practices, for at least the first 18 months of the three year term of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. 32 Table of Contents Refer to “Note 16—Contingencies” under Part II, Item 8 of this report for a description of the outcome of the FCPA investigation of the Company by the SEC and DOJ. Compliance with these agreements requires substantial cooperation of our employees, distributors and sales agents and the healthcare professionals with whom they interact. These efforts not only involve expense, but also require management and other key employees to focus extensively on these matters. We could be subject to further governmental investigations or actions by other third parties as a result of our settlement with the Department of Justice and OIG-HHS. We are subject to various federal and state laws concerning healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws and anti-kickback laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration (VA) health programs. These laws are administered by, among others, the DOJ, the OIG-HHS and state attorneys general. Many of these agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. As a result of our settlement with the DOJ and SEC related to the FCPA investigation described above, we may be subject to further governmental investigations by foreign governments or other claims by third parties arising from the conduct subject to the investigation. We intend to review and take appropriate actions with respect to any such investigations or proceedings; however, we cannot assure you that the costs of defending or fines imposed in resolving those civil or criminal investigations or proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The current global economic uncertainties may adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations could be substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. Unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may result in actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges which are unusual or non-recurring. Certain macroeconomic events, such as the current adverse conditions in the global economy, including most recently with the market disruptions caused by the economic and political challenges facing specific Eurozone countries such as Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, and Spain, could have a more wide-ranging and prolonged impact on the general business environment, which could also adversely affect us. These economic developments could affect us in numerous ways, many of which we cannot predict. Among the potential effects could be an increase in our variable interest rates, an inability to access credit markets should we require external financing, and further impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, it is possible that further deteriorating economic conditions, and resulting federal budgetary concerns, could prompt the federal government to make significant changes in the Medicare program, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions, or the effects these disruptions and conditions could have on us. We have a significant amount of trade receivables with national healthcare systems in many countries. We continue to monitor the collectability of such receivables in view of the current economic state of many foreign countries as payment is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. For instance, we believe the credit and economic conditions within Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, among other members of the European Union, have continued to deteriorate. These conditions have resulted in, and may continue to result in, an increase in the average length of time that it takes to collect on our accounts receivable outstanding in these countries. As of May 31, 2012, our orthopedic net accounts receivable in these countries 33 Table of Contents totaled over $70.0 million. During fiscal year 2010 we did recognize $9.3 million of expense to adjust our public accounts receivable in Greece to its expected net realizable value based upon the Greek government’s settlement of certain past due healthcare liabilities with long-term zero coupon bonds. We currently hold Greek bonds with a fair value of $6.3 million at May 31, 2012. Further, there have been widely publicized concerns with respect to the overall stability of the Euro as a single currency, given the economic and political challenges facing the Eurozone countries described above. The collapse of the Euro as a common European currency, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU or continuing deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Eurozone countries could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Many customers of our products have joined group purchasing organizations in an effort to contain costs. Group purchasing organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a group purchasing organization’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a group purchasing organization, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the group purchasing organization has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to respond to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing organizations may cause us to lose market share to our competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks and may adversely affect our results due to increased costs. During the year ended May 31, 2012, we derived approximately 40% of our net sales from sales of our products outside of the United States. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to additional risks associated with international sales and operations. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: • changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States; • differing payment cycles; • trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements and compliance with economic sanctions laws and regulations; • the application of U.S. and U.K. regulatory and anti-corruption laws to our international operations; • difficulty in staffing, training and managing foreign operations; • differing legal regulations and labor relations; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws (including potential taxes payable on earnings of foreign subsidiaries upon repatriation); and • political and economic instability. In addition, we are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase our costs and may adversely affect our results. The U.S. dollar value of our foreign-generated revenues varies 34 Table of Contents with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Measured in local currency, the majority of our foreign-generated revenues were generated in Europe. Significant increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Recently, there have been widely publicized concerns with respect to the overall stability of the Euro as a single currency, given the economic and political challenges facing several Eurozone countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. The collapse of the Euro as a common European currency, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU or continuing deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Eurozone countries could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. Any of these factors may, individually or collectively, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We conduct manufacturing operations outside of the United States and are in the process of transitioning certain manufacturing operations to China, which will expose us to additional business risks. In addition to our principal executive offices, we maintain more than 50 other manufacturing facilities, offices and warehouse facilities in various countries and regions, including Canada, Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America. We currently conduct operations in Jinhua, Zhejiang Province, China and Changzhou, Jiangsu Province, China. Our future business strategy may involve the operation of other manufacturing facilities in China. As a result of this initiative, we will be exposed to all the risks inherent in operating in an emerging market like China. In recent years the Chinese economy has undergone various developments, including beginning the transition from a more heavily government influenced-planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Despite this transition, the Chinese government continues to own significant production assets and exercises significant control over economic growth. Our international operations, including our planned expansion in China, may be subject to greater or new political, legal and economic risks than those faced by our operations in the United States, including such risks as those arising from: • unexpected changes in foreign or domestic legal, regulatory or governmental requirements or approvals, such as those related to taxation, lending, import and tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, intellectual property and other matters; • unexpected increases in taxes, tariffs and other assessments; • diminished protection of intellectual property; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in staffing, training and managing foreign operations; • differing legal and labor regulations; • political and economic instability; and • operating in a market with a less developed supply chain, transportation and distribution infrastructure. Due to these inherent risks, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any anticipated benefits from transitioning manufacturing operations to China and any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by our inability to effectively implement our global reconstructive product reorganization initiative. As of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we commenced a global reconstructive products reorganization program. The program includes the reorganization of our domestic and international reconstructive products corporate structure. Projected costs and savings associated with this program are subject to a variety of risks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to implement the reorganization successfully or that we will realize the projected benefits of this initiative. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits and efficiencies of the reorganization program, our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, our continued implementation of our reorganization program may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If pricing pressures cause us to decrease prices for our goods and services and we are unable to compensate for such reductions through product mix and reductions to our expenses, our results of operations will suffer. We may experience decreasing prices for our goods and services we offer due to pricing pressure exerted by our customers in response to increased cost containment efforts from managed care organizations and other third-party payors and increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates. If we are unable to offset such price reductions through product mix or reductions in our expenses, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. Quality problems with our manufacturing processes or our goods and services could significantly and adversely affect both our reputation for producing high-quality products and our results of operations. Our ability to manufacture and supply high-quality goods and services is critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to satisfy our ISO quality standards, our reputation could be significantly harmed, resulting in the loss of customers and market share and significantly and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Inventory may become obsolete due to shortened product life cycles, reduced product demand or changes in market conditions, resulting in inventory write-downs that may adversely affect our results of operations, possibly materially. In our industry, inventory is routinely placed at hospitals to provide the healthcare provider with the appropriate product when needed. Because product usage tends to follow a bell curve, larger and smaller sizes of inventory are provided, but infrequently used. In addition, the musculoskeletal market is highly competitive, with new products, raw materials and procedures being introduced continually, which may make those products currently on the market obsolete. We make estimates regarding the future use of these products and provide a provision for excess and obsolete inventory. If actual product life cycles, product demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business may be harmed as a result of product liability litigation. Our involvement in the manufacture and sale of medical devices creates exposure to risks of product liability claims, particularly in the United States. In the past, we have received product liability claims relating to our products and anticipate that we will continue to receive claims in the future, some of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, we could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of some of our products. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to satisfy liabilities we might incur. Moreover, even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies have substantial self-insured retentions or deductibles that we remain responsible for. If a product 36 Table of Contents liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or is in excess of our insurance coverage limits, our business could suffer and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely impacted. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. The musculoskeletal products industry is highly litigious with respect to the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property rights. In some cases, intellectual property litigation may be used to gain a competitive advantage. We have in the past and may in the future become a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. A legal proceeding, regardless of the outcome, could put pressure on our financial resources and divert the time, energy and efforts of our management. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and results of operations, in some cases materially. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and receive claims of potential infringement. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. If someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In January 2009, Heraeus Kulzer GmbH initiated legal proceedings in Germany against Biomet Inc. and our subsidiary, Biomet Europe BV, alleging that we and Biomet Europe BV misappropriated Heraeus Kulzer trade secrets when developing our new lines of European bone cements. The lawsuit seeks damages in excess of €30 million and injunctive relief to preclude us from producing our current line of European bone cements. We are vigorously defending this matter and intend to continue to do so. We can make no assurance as to the time or resources that will be needed to devote to this litigation or its final outcome. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets may adversely affect our ability to draw on our current revolving credit facilities as well as the value of certain of our investments. We believe that our cash, other liquid assets and operating cash flow, together with available borrowings and potential access to credit and capital markets, will be sufficient to meet our operating expenses, research and development costs and capital expenditures and service our debt requirements as they become due. However, our ongoing ability to meet our substantial debt service and other obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to business, financial and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. We cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt, support our operations and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. If financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes. 37 Table of Contents Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could impact our business. We depend on our senior managers and other key personnel to run our business and on technical experts to develop new products and technologies. The loss of any of these senior managers or other key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the management, operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to expand, conduct research and development activities successfully and develop marketable products. If we fail to retain our existing relationships with our independent sales agents and distributors or establish relationships with different agents and distributors, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Our revenues and profitability depend largely on the ability of independent sales agents and distributors to sell our products to customers. Typically, these agents and distributors have developed long-standing relationships with our customers and provide our customers with the necessary training and product support relating to our products. If we fail to retain our existing relationships with these agents and distributors or establish relationships with different agents and distributors, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. We may record future goodwill and/or intangible impairment charges related to one or more of our business units, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. We test our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset balances as of March 31 of each fiscal year for impairment. We test these balances more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. In evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates, and discount rates. These assumptions are uncertain and by nature can vary from actual results. Various future events could have a negative impact on the fair value of our reporting units’ goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles when the annual or interim impairment test is completed. The events include, but are not limited to: • our ability to sustain sales and earnings growth; • the effect of anticipated changes in the size, health and activities of the population or on the demand for our products; • our ability and intent to expand in key international markets; • the timing and anticipated outcome of clinical studies; • assumptions concerning anticipated product developments and emerging technologies; • our continued investment in new products and technologies; • the ultimate marketability of products currently being developed; • our success in achieving timely approval or clearance of our products with domestic and foreign regulatory entities; and • the stability of certain foreign economic markets. We recorded a goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge of $529.8 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 that was primarily related to the Company’s spine and bone healing reporting unit and dental reporting unit, principally driven by a reduction in management’s expectations of long-term industry growth rates compared to prior estimates. 38 Table of Contents A natural or man-made disaster could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have 14 manufacturing operations located throughout the world. However, a significant portion of our products are produced at and shipped from our facility in Warsaw, Indiana. In the event that this facility is severely damaged or destroyed as a result of a natural or man-made disaster, we would be forced to shift production to our other facilities and/or rely on third-party manufacturers. Our existing business interruption insurance coverage may be inadequate to satisfy liabilities we might incur in such a situation. If a business interruption claim or series of claims is in excess of our insurance coverage limits, or is not otherwise covered in whole or in part by our insurance coverage, our business could suffer and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely impacted. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations or to otherwise successfully execute strategic transactions could adversely affect our business. We may, from time to time, consider and take advantage of selected opportunities to grow by acquiring businesses whose operations or product lines fit well within our existing businesses or whose geographic location or market position would enable us to expand into new markets. Our ability to implement this expansion strategy will, however, depend on whether any suitable businesses are available at suitable valuations, how much money we can spend and maintaining our customer base. Any acquisition that we make could be subject to a number of risks, including failing to discover liabilities of the acquired company for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator despite any investigation we may make before the acquisition, our inability to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired company, the loss of key personnel in the acquired company and any adverse impact on our financial statements from the amortization of acquired intangible assets or the creation of reserves or write-downs. We may not be able to adequately meet these challenges, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness to finance these acquisitions, the related risks we face from our already substantial level of indebtedness could intensify. On June 15, 2012, we announced the initial closing of the previously announced $280.0 million acquisition of the worldwide trauma business of DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. Our integration of the operations of the acquired business requires significant efforts, including the coordination of complex information technology environments, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. On June 4, 2012, we disclosed our intention to pursue strategic exploratory work to separate our Biomet 3i dental business (“Biomet 3i”) in a tax-free spin-off. There can be no assurance that the evaluation of a potential separation of Biomet 3i will result in a separation. Any such transaction would be subject to customary conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals, an opinion from tax counsel and a favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to ensure the tax-free status of the spin-off, execution of intercompany agreements, further due diligence as appropriate, and final approval by our board of directors. We are in the process of developing detailed plans for the board of directors’ further consideration and final approval. To execute such a separation requires further work on structure, management, governance, transition services and other matters, which is expected to take several months. Any such separation of a business of the size and complexity as Biomet 3i is subject to a variety of risks, including our inability to effectively separate the operations and personnel of Biomet 3i, any adverse impact on our financial statements from the reduction in assets, revenues and earnings of the separated business or failing to identify and effectively address any contingent liabilities resulting from the separation of the acquired business. The integration efforts related to the DePuy Trauma acquisition and the strategic exploratory work to separate Biomet 3i require significant expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time that cannot be dedicated to other initiatives. We may not be able to adequately meet these challenges, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 39 Table of Contents We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, our business could be adversely affected. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. As a result of technology upgrades, recently enacted regulations, improvements in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and keep information technology systems current. In addition, our obligations to protect patient and customer information have increased significantly. Third parties may attempt to hack into our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients with our products or our proprietary information. If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash to fulfill our obligations under the notes, our ability to react to changes in our business and our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund future needs. We are highly leveraged. As of May 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of $5,827.8 million. The following chart shows our level of indebtedness as of May 31, 2012: (in millions) Non-U.S. facility $ 3.5 Term loan facilities 3,274.3 Cash flow revolving credit facilities — Asset-based revolving credit facility — Senior cash pay notes 761.0 Senior PIK toggle notes 771.0 Senior subordinated notes 1,015.0 Premium on debt 3.0 Total $ 5,827.8 As of May 31, 2012, we had outstanding approximately $3,274.3 million in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities that bears interest at a floating rate. The principal amount outstanding under our term loan facilities will be due and payable in full at maturity, seven and a half years from September 25, 2007. The principal amount outstanding under our senior secured cash flow revolving credit facilities will be due and payable in full at maturity, six years from September 25, 2007. The principal amount under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility will be due and payable in full at maturity, six years from September 25, 2007. On August 2, 2012, we entered into an amendment and restatement agreement that amended our existing senior secured credit facilities. The amendment (i) extends the maturity of approximately $1,007.2 million of our U.S. dollar-denominated term loans and approximately €631.3 million of our euro-denominated term loans under the credit facility to July 25, 2017 and (ii) refinances and replaces the existing alternative currency revolving credit commitments under the credit facility with a new class of alternative currency revolving credit commitments in an aggregate amount of $165.0 million and refinances and replaces the existing U.S. dollar revolving credit commitments under the credit facility with a new class of U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit commitments in an aggregate amount of $165.0 million. The new revolving credit 40 Table of Contents commitments will mature on April 25, 2017, except that if as of December 23, 2014, there is an outstanding aggregate principal amount of non-extended U.S. dollar and euro term loans in excess of $200.0 million, then such revolving credit commitments will mature on December 24, 2014. The remaining term loans of the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities who did not elect to extend such loans will continue to mature on March 25, 2015. On August 8, 2012 we completed our offering of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of new 6.500% senior notes. We expect to use the net proceeds of this offering to fund a tender offer for any and all of our outstanding senior toggle notes, including related fees and expenses, and to purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire our outstanding indebtedness. We have also entered into a series of interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rates on approximately 50% of the borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; • increase the risk we assess with our counterparties which could affect the fair value of our derivative instruments related to our debt facilities noted above; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • limit our noteholders’ rights to receive payments under the notes if secured creditors have not been paid; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to dispose of assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development and other corporate purposes; and • prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of certain changes of control, which would constitute a default under the indentures governing the notes. Restrictions imposed by the indentures governing the notes, our senior secured credit facilities and our other outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business and to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including the indentures governing the notes, contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests and other covenants. The failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material 41 Table of Contents adverse effect on us. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including the indentures governing the notes, restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or indebtedness; • make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions; • create restrictions on the payment of dividends or other amounts to us from our restricted subsidiaries; • engage in transactions with our affiliates; • sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; • consolidate or merge; • create liens; and • enter into sale and lease-back transactions. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities also restrict LVB from conducting any business or operations other than, among others, (i) owning Biomet, Inc., (ii) maintaining its legal existence, (iii) performing its obligations with respect to the senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes, (iv) publicly offering its common stock, (v) financing activities, including the issuance of securities, incurrence of debt, payment of dividends, making contributions to the capital of its subsidiaries and guaranteeing the obligations of its subsidiaries, or (vi) providing indemnification to its officers and directors. In addition, although the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes do not require us to comply with any financial ratio maintenance covenants, if less than $35.0 million (plus 10% of any increased commitments thereunder) were available under our asset-based revolving credit facility at any time, we would not be permitted to borrow any additional amounts under our asset-based revolving credit facility unless we maintain a certain pro forma ratio of (a) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA minus Capital Expenditures minus Cash Taxes to (b) Consolidated Fixed Charges (as such terms are defined in our asset-based revolving credit facility). In the event of a default under any of our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable. If the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities or the notes were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. In particular, noteholders will be paid only if we have assets remaining after we pay amounts due on our secured indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities. We, including our subsidiaries, have the ability to incur substantially more indebtedness, including senior secured indebtedness, and our noteholders’ right to receive payments on each series of notes is effectively junior to the right of lenders who have a security interest in our assets to the extent of the value of those assets. Our obligations under the notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the notes are unsecured, but our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and each guarantor’s obligations under its guarantee of our senior secured credit facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of substantially all of our wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries and a portion of the stock of certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the notes, even if an event of default exists under the indentures governing the notes at such time. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any guarantor under the notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, 42 Table of Contents because the notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in the guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which noteholders’ claims could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy noteholders’ claims in full. Subject to the restrictions in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes, we, including our subsidiaries, may incur significant additional indebtedness. As of May 31, 2012: • we and the guarantors had approximately $377.8 million available for borrowing under our cash flow revolving credit facilities, which, if borrowed, would be senior secured indebtedness; • we and the guarantors had $336.1 million available for borrowing under our asset-based revolving credit facility, subject to borrowing base limitations, which, if borrowed, would be senior secured indebtedness; • we and the guarantors have the option to incur additional incremental term loans or increase the cash flow revolving credit facilities commitments under our senior secured credit facilities up to an amount that would cause our Senior Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in our senior secured credit facilities) to be equal to or less than 4.50 to 1.00, which, if borrowed, would be senior secured indebtedness; and • we and the guarantors have the option to increase the asset-based revolving credit facility commitments under our asset-based revolving credit facility by up to $100.0 million, which, if borrowed, would be senior secured indebtedness. Although the terms of our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important exceptions, and indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we and our restricted subsidiaries incur significant additional indebtedness, the related risks that we face could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indentures governing the notes may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. 43 Table of Contents Repayment of our debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own a significant portion of our assets and conduct a significant portion of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness, including the notes, is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of the notes, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the notes or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the notes. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the indentures governing the notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the notes. Claims of noteholders will be structurally subordinated to claims of creditors of all our non-U.S. subsidiaries and some of our U.S. subsidiaries because they will not guarantee the notes. The notes are not guaranteed by any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries or any of our less than wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries. Accordingly, claims of holders of the notes will be structurally subordinated to the claims of creditors of these non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade creditors. Therefore, all obligations of our non-guarantor subsidiaries will have to be satisfied before any of the assets of such subsidiaries would be available for distribution, upon a liquidation or otherwise, to us or a guarantor of the notes. For the years ended May 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our non-guarantor subsidiaries accounted for $1,068.3 million, or 38% of our consolidated net sales, $1,015.7 million, or 37% of our consolidated net sales, and $987.6 million, or 37% of our consolidated net sales, respectively. As of May 31, 2012 and 2011, our non-guarantor subsidiaries accounted for approximately $2,734.3 million, or 26%, of our consolidated assets and $3,236.1 million, or 28% of our consolidated assets, respectively, and approximately $413.1 million, or 5.3%, of our consolidated liabilities and $587.9 million, or 7.2% of our consolidated liabilities, respectively. All amounts are presented after giving effect to intercompany eliminations. The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities will have the discretion to release any guarantors under these facilities in a variety of circumstances, which will cause those guarantors to be released from their guarantees of the notes. While any obligations under our senior secured credit facilities remain outstanding, any guarantee of the notes may be released without action by, or consent of, any holder of the notes or the trustee under the indentures governing the notes, at the discretion of lenders under our senior secured credit facilities, if the related guarantor is no longer a guarantor of obligations under our senior secured credit facilities or any other indebtedness. The lenders under our senior secured credit facilities will have the discretion to release the guarantees under our senior secured credit facilities in a variety of circumstances. Noteholders will not have a claim as a creditor against any subsidiary that is no longer a guarantor of the notes, and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries will effectively be senior to claims of noteholders. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our senior secured credit facilities that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on the notes and substantially 44 Table of Contents decrease the market value of the notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes. In the event of such default: • the holders of such indebtedness may be able to cause all of our available cash flow to be used to pay such indebtedness and, in any event, could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; • the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation; and • the subordination provisions in the senior subordinated notes may prevent us from paying any obligation with respect to such notes. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. The source of funds for any such purchase of the notes will be our available cash or cash generated from our subsidiaries’ operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the notes that are tendered upon a change of control. Further, we will be contractually restricted under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities from repurchasing all of the notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. Accordingly, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to purchase the notes unless we are able to refinance or obtain waivers under our senior secured credit facilities. Our failure to repurchase the notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indentures governing the notes and a cross default under our senior secured credit facilities. Our senior secured credit facilities also provide that a change of control will be a default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. The trading prices for the notes will be directly affected by many factors, including our credit rating. Credit rating agencies continually revise their ratings for companies they follow. The condition of the financial and credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Any such fluctuation may impact the trading price of the notes. In addition, developments in our business and operations could lead to a ratings downgrade which could adversely affect the trading price of the notes, or the trading market for the notes. An adverse rating of the notes may cause their trading price to fall. If a rating agency rates the notes, it may assign a rating that is lower than the rating expected by the noteholders. Ratings agencies also may lower ratings on the notes or any of our other debt in the future. If rating 45 Table of Contents agencies assign a lower than expected rating or reduce, or indicate that they may reduce, their ratings of our debt in the future, the trading price of the notes could significantly decline. Certain covenants under the indentures will be suspended for so long as the notes are rated investment grade by both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s and no default has occurred and is continuing. These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to incur or guarantee debt or issue certain stock, pay dividends, make distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. Because these restrictions will not apply when the notes are rated investment grade, we will be able to incur additional debt and consummate transactions that may impair our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes. In addition, we will not have to make certain offers to repurchase the notes. These covenants will be reinstated if the credit ratings assigned to the notes later decline below investment grade or a default occurs and is continuing. Federal and state fraudulent transfer laws may permit a court to void the notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the notes and the guarantees and require noteholders to return payments received. If this occurs, noteholders may not receive any payments on the notes. Federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of the notes and the incurrence of any guarantees. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, the notes or guarantees could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if (1) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, issued the notes or incurred the guarantees with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (2) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing the notes or incurring the guarantees and, in the case of (2) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof: • we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees; • the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees left us or any of the guarantors, as applicable, with an unreasonably small amount of capital to carry on the business; • we or any of the guarantors intended to, or believed that we or such guarantor would, incur debts beyond our or such guarantor’s ability to pay such debts as they mature; or • we or any of the guarantors was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against us or such guarantor if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied. A court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the notes or the applicable guarantee. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that the issuance of the guarantees would not be further subordinated to our or any of our guarantors’ other debt. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if, at the time it incurred indebtedness: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair value of all its assets; • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. 46 Table of Contents If a court were to find that the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantee was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the notes or such guarantee or further subordinate the notes or such guarantee to presently existing and future indebtedness of ours or of the related guarantor, or require the holders of the notes to repay any amounts received with respect to such guarantee. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, noteholders may not receive any repayment on the notes. Further, the voidance of the notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries’ other debt that could result in acceleration of such debt. Although each guarantee entered into by a guarantor will contain a provision intended to limit that guarantor’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective to protect those guarantees from being voided under fraudulent transfer law, or may reduce that guarantor’s obligation to an amount that effectively makes its guarantee worthless. We are indirectly owned and controlled by the Sponsors, and the Sponsors’ interests as equity holders may conflict with the interests of noteholders as creditors. The Sponsors have the ability to control our policies and operations. The interests of the Sponsors may not in all cases be aligned with our noteholders’ interests. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our equity holders might conflict with our noteholders’ interests. In addition, our equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of the notes. Furthermore, the Sponsors may in the future own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. The Sponsors also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There are risks associated with an investment in our common stock given the generally illiquid nature of our common stock. There is no public market for our common stock and the common stock, options and restricted stock units are subject to significant restrictions on transfer, including restrictions under the federal and state securities laws, the Management Stockholders’ Agreement for Senior Executives among LVB and the stockholders party thereto, dated as of September 13, 2007 and the Management Stockholders’ Agreement among LVB and the stockholders party thereto, dated as of November 6, 2007 (collectively, the “Stockholders Agreement”), which substantially restrict the liquidity of the securities described herein. See “Description of Registrant’s Securities to be Registered.” In addition, there are no assurances that a liquidity event as described in the Stockholders Agreement will occur, and if it does so when such event occurs or on what terms and conditions. Therefore investors must be prepared to bear the economic risk of holding such securities for an indefinite period of time and without any assurance that the options, restricted stock units or the common stock will generate any investment return. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own. As a result, we depend on our operating subsidiaries for cash to make dividend payments. Deterioration in the financial conditions, earnings or cash flow of our significant subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay cash dividends or other distributions to LVB. We may also need to contribute additional capital to improve the capital ratios of certain of our subsidiaries, which could also affect the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends. 47 Table of Contents In addition, the terms of certain of the outstanding indebtedness of subsidiaries of LVB substantially restricts our ability to pay dividends. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Facilities and Notes.” There cannot be any assurance that agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of LVB or its subsidiaries will permit LVB or its subsidiaries to provide LVB’s stockholders with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans. Accordingly, the restrictions above would limit our ability to make dividend payments to our stockholders, and investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur, particularly in view of our transfer restrictions applicable to our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors the board deems relevant. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 48 Table of Contents 