Risk Factors The following factors, among others, could cause the Company’s future results to differ from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks identified in this section are not exhaustive. The Company operates in a dynamic and competitive environment. New risk factors affecting the Company emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors. Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any single factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these inherent risks and uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following discussion of the Company’s risk factors speaks only as of the date on which they were made and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included herein. Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. The Company’s future profitability depends on the success of the Company’s principal product lines. Sales of the Company’s reconstructive products accounted for approximately 67% of the Company’s net sales for the year ended May 31, 2005. The Company expects sales of reconstructive products to continue to account for a significant portion of the Company’s aggregate sales. Any event adversely affecting the sale of reconstructive products may, as a result, adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and market new products and technologies in a timely manner, the demand for the Company’s products may decrease, or the Company’s products could become obsolete, and the Company’s revenue and profitability may decline. The market for the Company’s products is highly competitive and dominated by a small number of large companies. The Company is continually engaged in product development, research and improvement efforts, and new products and line extensions of existing products represent a significant component of the Company’s growth rate. The Company’s ability to continue to grow sales effectively depends on its capacity to keep up with existing or new products and technologies in the musculoskeletal products market. In addition, if the Company’s competitors’ new products and technologies reach the market before the Company’s products, they may gain a competitive advantage or render the Company’s products obsolete. See “Competition” in Item 1 — “Business” of this Form 10-K for more information about the Company’s competitors. The ultimate success of the Company’s product development efforts will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the Company’s ability to create innovative designs, materials and surgical techniques; accurately anticipate and meet customers’ needs; commercialize new products in a timely manner; and manufacture and deliver products and instrumentation in sufficient volumes on time. Moreover, research and development efforts may require a substantial investment of time and resources before the Company is adequately able to determine the commercial viability of a new product, technology, material or other innovation. Even in the event that the Company is able to successfully develop innovations, they may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and may be quickly rendered obsolete as a result of changing customer preferences or the introduction by the Company’s competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. The Company is subject to substantial government regulation that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Most aspects of the Company’s business are subject to some degree of government regulation in the countries in which its operations are conducted. As discussed under the heading “Government Regulation” in Item 1 — “Business” of this Form 10-K, for some products and in some areas of the world, such as the United States, Canada, Japan and Europe, government regulation is significant. Overall, there appears to be a trend toward more stringent regulation throughout the world. The Company does not anticipate this trend to dissipate in the near future. In addition, the medical device industry is subject to a myriad of complex laws governing Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has become increasingly vigilant in recent years with respect to investigations of various business practices. Further, as a publicly-traded company, the Company is subject to increasingly demanding corporate and financial legislation in the United States, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires the time and attention of management and creates additional costs and expenses. 14 Table of Contents In general, the development, testing, manufacture and marketing of the Company’s products are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. The regulatory process requires the expenditure of significant time, effort and expense to bring new products to market. In addition, the Company is required to implement and maintain stringent reporting, labeling and record keeping procedures. The Company cannot assure that the relevant authorities will approve any of its products. Furthermore, governmental and regulatory actions against the Company can result in various actions that could adversely impact the Company’s operations, including: • the recall or seizure of products; • the suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production or sale of a product; • the imposition of fines and penalties; • the delay of the Company’s ability to introduce new products into the market; and • other civil or criminal sanctions against the Company. The Company is subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could increase the Company’s costs and may cause the Company’s profitability to decline. During fiscal year 2005, sales of the Company’s products in foreign markets approximated $641,223,000, or 34% of the Company’s total revenues. Accordingly, the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Measured in local currency, the majority of the Company’s foreign-generated revenues was generated in Europe. Significant increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s consolidated net sales were favorably affected by approximately 2% and 4.6% during fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively, as a result of the impact of foreign currency translations. At the present time, the Company does not engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between any particular foreign currency and the U.S. dollar. Sales may decline if the Company’s customers do not receive adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors for the Company’s products and if certain types of healthcare programs are adopted in the Company’s key markets. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase the Company’s products generally rely on payments from third-party payors (principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans) to cover all or a portion of the cost of the Company’s musculoskeletal products. In the event that third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of reimbursement, the Company may be unable to sell certain of its products on a profitable basis, thus adversely impacting the Company’s results of operations. Further, third-party payors are continuing to carefully review their coverage policies with respect to existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that may include the use of the Company’s products. In addition, some healthcare providers in the United States have adopted or are considering the adoption of a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. Healthcare providers in a managed care system may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures, including joint reconstructive surgeries, or by requiring the use of the least expensive implant available. In response to these, and other, pricing pressures, the Company’s competitors may lower the prices for their products. The Company may not be able to match the prices offered by the Company’s competitors, thus adversely impacting the Company’s results of operations and prospects. Further, in the event that the United States considers the adoption of a national healthcare system in which prices are controlled and patient care is managed by the government, such regulation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly from country to country. In the majority of the international markets in which the Company’s products are sold, government-managed healthcare systems mandate the reimbursement rates and methods for medical devices and procedures. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of the Company’s products may decline. Many foreign markets, including Canada, and some European and Asian countries, have tightened reimbursement rates. The ability of the Company to continue to sell certain of its products profitably in these markets may diminish if the government-managed healthcare systems continue to reduce reimbursement rates. The Company’s business may be harmed as a result of litigation. The Company’s involvement in the manufacture and sale of medical devices creates exposure to significant risk of product liability claims, particularly in the United States. In the past, the Company has received product liability claims relating to the Company’s products and anticipates that it will continue to receive claims in the future, some of which could have a negative impact on the Company’s business. Additionally, the Company could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in its products, a quality system failure, other safety issues, or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of 15 Table of Contents some of the Company’s products. The Company’s existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to satisfy liabilities the Company might incur. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against the Company for uninsured liabilities or in excess of the Company’s insurance coverage limits, the Company’s business could suffer and its results could be materially impacted. In addition, the musculoskeletal products industry is highly litigious with respect to the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property rights. In some cases, intellectual property litigation may be used to gain a competitive advantage. The Company has in the past and may in the future become a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. A legal proceeding, regardless of the outcome, could put pressure on the Company’s financial resources and divert the time and effort of the Company’s management. A natural or man-made disaster could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company has approximately twenty manufacturing operations located throughout the world. However, a significant portion of the Company’s products are produced at and shipped from its facility in Warsaw, Indiana. In the event that this facility were severely damaged or destroyed as a result of a natural or man-made disaster, the Company would be forced to shift production to its other facilities and/or rely on third-party manufacturers. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may not be able to retain its business in the bone cements and cement delivery system market segment. During fiscal year 2006 the Company will no longer be supplied with bone cement products from Heraeus Kulzer GmbH (“Kulzer”). Historically, Kulzer has been the primary supplier of bone cement to the Company, including the Palacos® family of bone cement products. The supply relationship between the parties will terminate during fiscal year 2006. The Company is working to broaden the range of its internally developed and manufactured bone cement products. Although the Company believes the bone cement products under development are well suited to meet the current trends in orthopedic surgery and represent an improvement in bone cement, the market acceptance of those products has yet to be determined. During fiscal year 2005, the Company’s sales of bone cement products supplied by external suppliers represented approximately 3% of the Company’s consolidated sales. The Company can not provide any assurances that it will be able to maintain its historic level of sales of bone cement products and such a decrease in sales may adversely affect the Company’s financial results. 16 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The name, age, business background, positions held with the Company and tenure as an executive officer of each of the Company’s executive officers are set forth below. No family relationship exists among any of the executive officers. Except as otherwise stated, each executive officer has held the position indicated during the last five years. Executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors to serve for one year and until their successors are elected, subject to resignation, retirement or removal. Served as Executive Current Position(s) Name, Age and Business Experience Officer Since with the Company Dane A. Miller, Ph.D., 59 President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. 1977 President and Chief Director of the Company since 1977. Executive Officer and Director of the Company. Niles L. Noblitt, 54 Chairman of the Board of the Company. 1978 Chairman of the Board Director of the Company since 1977. and Director of the Company Charles E. Niemier, 49 Senior Vice President — International Operations of the Company. 1984 Senior Vice President — Director of the Company since 1987. International Operations and Director of the Company. Garry L. England, 51 Senior Vice President — Warsaw Operations of the Company. 1987 Senior Vice President — Warsaw Operations of the Company. Daniel P. Hann, 50 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. 1989 Senior Vice President and Director of the Company since 1989. General Counsel, Secretary and Director of the Company. Joel P. Pratt, 51 Senior Vice President of the Company since June 1999 and President 1990 Senior Vice President of Walter Lorenz Surgical, Inc. since January 2002. Prior thereto, of the Company and President President of Arthrotek, Inc. of Walter Lorenz Surgical, Inc. Gregory D. Hartman, 48 Senior Vice President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the 1991 Senior Vice President — Company. Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. James W. Haller, 48 Controller of the Company and Vice President — Finance 1991 Controller of the Company of Biomet Orthopedics, Inc. since June 2001. Prior thereto, and Vice President — Finance Controller of the Company. of Biomet Orthopedics, Inc. Jerry L. Ferguson, 64 Vice Chairman of the Board of the Company. 1994 Vice Chairman of the Board Director of the Company since 1977. and Director of the Company. Bart J. Doedens, 46 Vice President of the Company since June 2002 and President 2002 Vice President of the Company of EBI, L.P. since June 2005. President of Implant Innovations, Inc. and President of EBI, L.P. from January 2001 to June 2005 and Vice President International Marketing and Sales of Implant Innovations, Inc. prior thereto. 17 Table of Contents Roger P. Van Broeck, 57 Vice President of the Company since July 2004 and President 2004 Vice President of the Company of Biomet Europe B.V. since March 2004. Prior thereto and President of Biomet Chief Executive Officer of BioMer C. V. and Biomet Merck B.V. Europe B.V. Steven F. Schiess, 45 Vice President of the Company and President of Implant Innovations 2005 Vice President of the Company Inc. since June 2005. Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, and President of Implant Sales and Marketing of Implant Innovations, Inc. Innovations, Inc. 18 Table of Contents 