Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company makes forward-looking statements in this document and in other materials it files with the SEC or otherwise makes public. In addition, senior management of the Company might make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. Statements concerning the Company’s future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, future economic performance (including growth and earnings) and demand for our services, and other statements of the Company’s plans, beliefs, or expectations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases these statements are identifiable through the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “target,” “can,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements the Company makes are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to various assumptions, risks, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, those set forth in the following paragraphs and in the other documents that the Company files with the SEC. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Factors That May Affect Future Results and/or Forward-Looking Statements Insurance Limits. The Operating Subsidiaries currently purchases insurance coverage for commercial trucking claims with limits of up to $1.0 million per occurrence. Liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe (sometimes in excess of $1.0 million) and occurrences are unpredictable. If a claim for an amount in excess of $1.0 million was successful, it could have a material adverse effect on US 1 and its subsidiaries, including its results of operations and financial condition. Increased severity or frequency of accidents and other claims. Potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe and occurrences are unpredictable. While the Company’s subsidiaries generally retain deductibles ranging from $5,000 to $50,000 per occurrence, a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or cargo claims, or the unfavorable development of existing claims, could have a material adverse effect through increased insurance costs on US 1 and its subsidiaries, which would adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on third-party insurance companies. The cost of insurance coverage for commercial trucking varies dramatically, but is expensive. Further, the ability of US 1 to purchase coverage for losses in excess of $1.0 million is very limited. A number of the Company’s subsidiaries purchase insurance through AIFE. AIFE reinsures some of its exposure with third party insurance companies. AIFE is managed by Lex Venditti, a director of the Company. Dependence on independent commission agents. As noted above in Item 1, "Business," the Operating Subsidiaries, excluding Patriot Logistics, market their services primarily through independent commission agents. Currently, they have a network of approximately 170 agents. During 2010, 66 of these agents generated revenue for US 1 of at least $1.0 million, and no one agent generated more than $10.0 million of US 1's total revenue. The Operating Subsidiaries compete with motor carriers and other third parties for the services of these independent agents. The Operating Subsidiaries’ contracts with these agents typically are terminable upon 30-days notice by either party and do not restrict the ability of a former agent to comp ete with US 1 following a termination. The loss of some of the agents or a significant decrease in volume generated by these agents could have a materially adverse effect on US 1, including its results of operations and revenue. 6 Dependence on third-party owner operators. As noted above in Item 1, "Business," the Operating Subsidiaries do not generally own trucks and rely on owner/operators who operate as independent contractors and unrelated trucking companies to transport freight for its customers. Operating Subsidiaries compete with other motor carriers and third parties for the services of owner/operators. Almost all of the freight hauled by the Company, through its subsidiaries, is by these owner/operators. A significant decrease in available capacity provided by either of these parties could have a material adverse effect on US 1, including its results of operations and revenue. Dependence on key personnel. The Company is dependent on the services of its officers, particularly the officers of its subsidiaries. All of these officers are free to leave the Company and start competing operations. None have agreed to any covenant not to compete. Given the nature of the relationship with the agents and owner/operators, as described above, it would be relatively easy for the Company to lose a substantial amount of business if one or more of these key people left and set up a competing operation. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including its results of operations and revenue. In October 2006, the Company and the President of Patriot Logistics, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an agreement under which the Company granted the individual the option to purchase 100% of the outstanding stock of Patriot for a purchase price equal to the book value of Patriot. This option terminates in October 2012 or upon a change in control of the Company. The option is immediately exercisable and may be exercised in whole (not in part) at any time prior to October 2011. The fair value of this option was reevaluated at December 31, 2010, and was determined to be deminimis. Patriot Logistics’ revenue was $25.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $26.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Patriot Logistics had pre-tax income of approximately $0. 3 million and $0.03 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Disruptions or failures in the Company's computer systems. The Company's information technology systems used in connection with its operations are located in South Bend, IN and Valparaiso, IN. US 1 and its subsidiaries rely, in the regular course of business, on the proper operation of its information technology systems to link its network of customers, agents and owner operators. These systems in turn are dependent on operation of the Internet. Any significant disruption or failure of these systems could significantly disrupt the Company and its subsidiaries’ operations and impose significant costs on the Company. Status of Owner/Operators. From time to time, various legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced at the federal or state levels to change the status of owner/operators’ classification to employees (from independent contractors) for either employment tax purposes (withholding, social security, Medicare and unemployment taxes) or other benefit purposes. Currently, most individuals are classified as employees or independent contractors for employment tax purposes based on 20 “common-law” factors rather than any definition found in the Internal Revenue Code or the regulations there under. In addition, under Section 530 of the Revenue Act of 1978, taxpayers that meet certain criteria may treat similarly situated workers as emplo yees, if they have received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or a court decision affirming their treatment, or if they are following a long-standing recognized practice. The Operating Subsidiaries treat their owner/operators as independent contractors. The classification of owner/operators as independent contractors does require significant analysis of the facts relating to their service to the Operating Subsidiaries. Although management is unaware of any proposals currently pending to change the employee/independent contractor classification, the costs associated with potential changes, if any, in the employee/independent contractor classification could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations if the Company were unable to reflect them in its fee arrangements with the owner/operators and agents or in the prices charged to its customers. 7 Credit Facility and Economic Financial Environment. Our credit facility with US Bank contains a number of financial covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests. If we fail to comply with the obligations in the credit agreement, we would be in default under the credit agreement. If an event of default is not cured or waived, it could result in acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness under our credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, our credit facility expires in October 2011. If we are unable to extend the credit facility with US Bank or obtain a new credit facility with a new lender, this inability to obtain financing could have a material adverse effect on our business. The rece nt global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the global financial crisis and resulting economic slowdown on our business, including payment delays by customers and/or customer insolvencies, delays in accessing our current credit facilities or obtaining new credit facilities on terms we deem commercially reasonable, and an inability of US Bank to fulfill their funding obligations. Any further deterioration of economic conditions would likely exacerbate these adverse effects and could result in a wide-ranging and prolonged impact on general business conditions, thereby negatively impacting our operations, financial results and/or liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, financial covenants included: maximum total debt service coverage ratio and prohibition of additional indebtedness without prior authorization. At December 31, 2010, the Company, and its subsidiaries, was in compliance with these financial covenants. At December 31, 2009, the Company, and its subsidiaries, was non-compliant with these covenants. The Company’s lender issued a waiver of these violations. Stock Price. The Company’s stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in revenue and operating income, low trading volume, general economic and market conditions. As a result, the Company’s common stock may experience significant fluctuations in market price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 