Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company makes forward-looking statements in this document and in other materials it files with the SEC or otherwise makes public. In addition, senior management of the Company might make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and others. Statements concerning the Company's future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, future economic performance (including growth and earnings) and demand for our services, and other statements of the Company's plans, beliefs, or expectations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases these statements are identifiable through the use of words such as "anticipate, " "believe, " "estimate, " "expect, " "intend, " "plan, " "project, " "target, " "can, " "could, " "may, " "should, " "will, " "would" and similar expressions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements the Company makes are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to various assumptions, risks, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, those set forth in the following paragraphs and in the other documents that the Company files with the SEC. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Factors That May Affect Future Results and/or Forward-Looking Statements Insurance Limits. The Company currently purchases insurance coverage for commercial trucking claims with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence. Liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe (sometimes in excess of $1,000,000) and occurrences are unpredictable. If a claim for an amount in excess of $1,000,000 was successful, it could have a material adverse effect on US 1 and its subsidiaries, including its results of operations and financial condition. Increased severity or frequency of accidents and other claims. Potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe and occurrences are unpredictable. While the Company generally retains deductibles of under $50,000, a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, or cargo claims or the unfavorable development of existing claims could have a material adverse effect through increased insurance costs on US 1 and its subsidiaries, which would adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on third-party insurance companies. The cost of insurance coverage for commercial trucking varies dramatically, but is expensive. Further, the ability of US 1 to purchase coverage for losses in excess of $1,000,000 is very limited. US 1 relies on AIFE for approximately 76% of its insurance. AIFE is managed by Lex Venditti, a director of the Company. AIFE, in turn, retains some of the risk and reinsures the remainder. US 1's access to affordable insurance other than through AIFE historically has been quite limited. Should the premiums charged by AIFE increase significantly, or should coverage be limited in any way or be unavailable, Factors That May Affect Future Results and/or Forward-Looking Statements (continued) it could have a material adverse affect on the Company and its results of operations and financial condition. Dependence on independent commission agents. As noted above in Item 1, "Business," the Company markets its services primarily through independent commission agents. Currently the Company has a network of 87 agents. During 2007, 43 of these agents generated revenue for US 1 of at least $1,000,000 and one agent generated approximately $12,722,000, or 6.9% of US 1's total revenue. The Company competes with motor carriers and other third parties for the services of these independent agents. US 1's contracts with these agents typically are terminable upon 30-days notice by either party and do not restrict the ability of a former agent to compete with US 1 following a termination. The loss of some of the Company's agents or a significant decrease in volume generated by these agents could have a materially adverse effect on US 1, including its results of operations and revenue. Dependence on third-party owner operators. As noted above in Item 1, "Business," US 1 does not generally own trucks and relies on owner/operators who operate as independent contractors and unrelated trucking companies to transport freight for its customers. US 1 competes with other motor carriers and third parties for the services of owner/operators. Almost all of the freight hauled by the Company is by these owner/operators. A significant decrease in available capacity provided by either of these parties could have a material adverse effect on US 1, including its results of operations and revenue. Dependence on key personnel. The Company is dependent on the services of its officers, particularly the officers of its subsidiaries. All of these officers are free to leave the Company and start competing operations. None have agreed to any covenant not to compete. Given the nature of the relationship with the agents and owner/operators, as described above, it would be relatively easy for the Company to lose a substantial amount of business if one or more of these key people left and set up a competing operation. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including its results of operations and revenue. In October 2006, the Company and the general manager of Patriot Logistics, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an agreement under which the Company granted the individual the option to purchase 100% of the outstanding stock of Patriot for a purchase price equal to the book value of Patriot. This option to purchase Patriot was extended in 2007 and now terminates in October 2009 or upon a change in control of the Company. The option is immediately exercisable and maybe exercised in whole (not in part) at anytime prior to October 2009. The fair value of this option was determined to be deminimis. In the event the option were exercised, based upon the actual results of Patriot Logistics, our revenue would have declined by $39,255,861 (a decrease of 21.3%) for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $46,356,069 (a decrease of 24.3%) for the year ended December 31, 2006. Patriot Logistics had pre-tax income (loss) of $501,522 and ($280,799) for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Factors That May Affect Future Results and/or Forward-Looking Statements (continued) Disruptions or failures in the Company's computer systems. The Company's information technology systems used in connection with its operations are located in Arlington Heights, IL and Valparaiso, IN. US 1 relies, in the regular course of business, on the proper operation of its information technology systems to link its network of customers, agents and owner operators. These systems in turn are dependent on operation of the Internet. Any significant disruption or failure of these systems could significantly disrupt the Company's operations and impose significant costs on the Company. Status of Owner/Operators. From time to time, various legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced at the federal or state levels to change the status of owner/operators' classification to employees (from independent contractors) for either employment tax purposes (withholding, social security, Medicare and unemployment taxes) or other benefit purposes. Currently, most individuals are classified as employees or independent contractors for employment tax purposes based on 20 "common-law" factors rather than any definition found in the Internal Revenue Code or the regulations there under. In addition, under Section 530 of the Revenue Act of 1978, taxpayers that meet certain criteria may treat similarly situated workers as employees, if they have received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or a court decision affirming their treatment, or if they are following a long-standing recognized practice. US 1 treats its owner/ operators as independent contractors. The classification of owner/operators as independent contractors does require significant analysis of the facts relating to their service to the Company. Although management is unaware of any proposals currently pending to change the employee/independent contractor classification, the costs associated with potential changes, if any, in the employee/independent contractor classification could adversely affect the Company's results of operations if the Company were unable to reflect them in its fee arrangements with the owner/operators and agents or in the prices charged to its customers. Credit Facility. The primary source of liquidity for US 1 is its revolving credit facility. While this facility has provided all needed liquidity in the recent past, there have been times in the history of US 1 where it was not adequate. In addition, this facility contains both affirmative and negative covenants that must be satisfied. Were the Company to fail to satisfy those covenants, it no longer would be entitled to borrow under the facility and there can be no assurances that an alternative borrowing facility would be available. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 