D. Risk factors. Some of the information in this report constitutes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States federal securities laws, including the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, among others, statements regarding future expenditures, sufficiency of cash generated from operations, maintenance of majority interest in ASM Pacific Technology Ltd. (“ASM Pacific Technology” or “ASMPT”), business strategy, product development, product acceptance, market penetration, market demand, return on investment in new products, product shipment dates and outlooks. These statements may be found under Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” and elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements typically are identified by use of terms such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “potential,” “intend,” “continue” and similar words, although some forward-looking statements are expressed differently. You should be aware that these statements involve risks and uncertainties and our actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including the matters discussed in Item 4 “Information on the Company” and the following discussion of risks. The risks described are not the only ones facing ASMI. Some risks are not yet known and some that we do not currently believe to be material could later become material. Each of these risks could materially affect our business, revenues, income, assets and liquidity and capital resources. All statements are made as of the date of this report and we assume no obligation nor intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or circumstances. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our business could be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. We sell our products to the semiconductor industry, which is subject to sudden, extreme, cyclical variations in product supply and demand. The timing, length and severity of these cycles are difficult to predict. In the period 2001—2003, the semiconductor industry experienced a cyclical downturn characterized by reduced demand for products, lower average selling prices, reduced investment in semiconductor capital equipment and other factors all of which resulted in lower sales and earnings for our business. This downturn lasted longer than past cycles and, although conditions in the semiconductor equipment market improved, the market remains volatile and hard to predict. Semiconductor manufacturers may contribute to the severity of these cycles by misinterpreting the conditions in the industry and over-investing or under-investing in semiconductor manufacturing capacity and equipment. In any event, the lag 5 Table of Contents between changes in demand for semiconductor devices and changes in demand for our products by semiconductor manufacturers accentuates the intensity of these cycles in both expansion and contraction phases. We may not be able to respond effectively to these industry cycles. Downturns in the semiconductor industry often occur in connection with, or anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. Industry downturns have been characterized by reduced demand for semiconductor devices and equipment, production over-capacity and a decline in average selling prices. During a period of declining demand, we must be able to quickly and effectively reduce expenses and motivate and retain key employees. Our ability to reduce expenses in response to any downturn in the semiconductor industry is limited by our need for continued investment in engineering and research and development and extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements. In addition, the long lead time for production and delivery of some of our products creates a risk that we may incur expenditures or purchase inventories for products that we cannot sell. During periods of extended downturn, a portion of our inventory may have to be written down if it is not sold in a timely manner. Industry upturns have been characterized by fairly abrupt increases in demand for semiconductor devices and equipment and insufficient production capacity. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to quickly increase manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand and hire and assimilate a sufficient number of additional qualified personnel. Our inability to quickly respond in times of increased demand could harm our reputation and cause some of our existing or potential customers to place orders with our competitors rather than us. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change and we may not be able to forecast or respond to commercial and technological trends in time to avoid competitive harm. Our growth strategy and future success depend upon commercial acceptance of products incorporating technologies we are developing, such as plasma enhanced atomic layer deposition processes, rapid thermal processing, low-k dielectrics, copper deposition and silicon or silicon-germanium epitaxy. The semiconductor industry and the semiconductor equipment industry are subject to rapid technological change and frequent introductions of enhancements to existing products as well as significant write-downs and impairment charges and costs that can result from such changes. Technological changes have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our business. Our operating results and our ability to remain competitive are affected by our ability to accurately anticipate customer and market requirements and develop technologies and products to meet these requirements. Our success in developing, introducing and selling new and enhanced products depends upon a variety of factors, including, without limitation: • successful innovation of processes and equipment; • accurate technology and product selection; • timely and efficient completion of product design, development and qualification; • timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes; • successful product performance in the field; • effective and timely product support and service; and • effective product sales and marketing. We may not be able to accurately forecast or respond to commercial and technical trends in the semiconductor industry or to the development of new technologies and products by our competitors. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that may be more widely accepted. In addition, we may incur substantial unanticipated costs to ensure the functionality and reliability of our current and future products. If our products are unreliable or do not meet our customers’ expectations, then we may experience reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in collecting accounts receivable, and/or additional service and warranty expense. We have experienced delays from time to time in the introduction of, and some technical and manufacturing difficulties with, some of our systems and enhancements. We may also experience delays and technical and manufacturing difficulties in future introductions or volume production of new systems or enhancements. Significant delays can occur between a product’s introduction and the commencement of volume production of that product. Any of these events could negatively impact our ability to generate the return we intend to achieve on our investments in new products. If we fail to adequately invest in research and development, we may be unable to compete effectively. We have limited resources to allocate to research and development, and must allocate our resources among a wide variety of projects in our front-end and back-end businesses. In 2005, we invested € 100.7 million in research and development, or 13.9% of our net sales. Because of intense competition in our industry, the cost of failing to invest in strategic developments is high. In order to enhance the benefits 6 Table of Contents obtained from our research and development expenditures, we have contractual and other relationships with independent research institutes. If we fail to adequately invest in research and development or lose our ability to collaborate with these independent research entities, we may be unable to compete effectively in the front-end and back-end markets in which we operate. We face intense competition from companies which have greater resources than we do, and potential competition from new companies entering the market in which we compete. If we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. We face intense competition in both the front-end and back-end segments of the semiconductor equipment industry from other established companies. Our primary competitors in the front-end business include Applied Materials, Novellus Systems, Tokyo Electron, Kokusai, and Aviza. Our primary competitors in the back-end business include Kulicke & Soffa, ESEC, Shinkawa, Apic Yamada, BE Semiconductor Industries, Towa, Shinko and Mitsui. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to: • better withstand periodic downturns in the semiconductor industry; • compete more effectively on the basis of price, technology, service and support; • more quickly develop enhancements to, and new generations of products; and • more effectively retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the semiconductor equipment industry. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, without limitation: • our success in developing new products and enhancements; • performance of our products; • quality of our products; • ease of use of our products; • reliability of our products; • cost of ownership of our products; • our ability to ship products in a timely manner; • quality of the technical service we provide; • timeliness of the services we provide; • responses to changing market and economic conditions; and • price of our products and our competitors’ products. Some of these factors are outside our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share, and inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development of new products. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate due to a variety of factors, which may result in volatility or a decrease in the price of our common shares. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary in the future due to a number of factors, including, without limitation: • cyclicality and other economic conditions in the semiconductor industry; • production capacity constraints; • the timing of customer orders, cancellations and shipments; • the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products; 7 Table of Contents • the introduction of new products and enhancements by us and our competitors; • the emergence of new industry standards; • product obsolescence; • disruptions in sources of supply; • our ability to time our expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • our ability to fund our capital requirements; • changes in our pricing and pricing by our suppliers and competitors; • our product and revenue mix; • seasonal fluctuations in demand for our products; • exchange rate fluctuations; e.g. appreciation of the euro versus the U.S. dollar, which would negatively affect the competitiveness of our manufacturing activities that are domiciled in countries whose currency is the euro; and • economic conditions generally or in various geographic areas where we or our customers do business. In addition, we derive a substantial portion of our net sales from products that have a high average selling price and significant lead times between the initial order and delivery of the product. The timing and recognition of net sales from customer orders can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Gross margins realized on product sales vary depending upon a variety of factors, including the mix of products sold during a particular period, negotiated selling prices, the timing of new product introductions and enhancements and manufacturing costs. A delay in a shipment near the end of a fiscal quarter or year, due, for example, to rescheduling or cancellations by customers or to unexpected manufacturing difficulties experienced by us, may cause sales in a particular period to fall significantly below our expectations and may materially adversely affect our operating results for that period. Further, our need to continue expenditures for research and development and engineering make it difficult for us to reduce expenses in a particular quarter even if our sales goals for that quarter are not met. Our inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for any sales shortfall would magnify the adverse impact of a sales shortfall on our operating results. In addition, announcements by us or our competitors of new products and technologies could cause customers to defer purchases of our existing systems, which could negatively impact our earnings and our financial position. As a result of these factors, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Any shortfall in revenues or net income from levels expected by securities analysts and investors could cause a decrease in the trading price of our common shares. Our products generally have long sales cycles and implementation periods, which increase our costs in obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of our earnings. Our products are technologically complex. Prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate our products and to install and integrate them into larger systems. In addition, customers often require a significant number of product presentations and demonstrations, in some instances evaluating equipment on site, before reaching a sufficient level of confidence in the product’s performance and compatibility with the customer’s requirements to place an order. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design and testing of new products. The sales cycles of our products often last for many months or even years. Longer sales cycles require us to invest significant resources in attempting to make sales and delay the generation of revenue. Long sales cycles also subject us to other risks, including customer’s budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews and cancellations. In addition, orders expected in one quarter could shift to another because of the timing of customer’s purchase decisions. The time required for our customers to incorporate our products into their systems can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and generally exceeds several months, which further complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our operating results. Our recent acquisitions and any acquisitions or investments we may make in the future could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. In June 2004 we acquired the remaining 84.3% interest in NuTool, Inc. (“NuTool”) that we did not already own and in August 2004 we acquired Genitech, Inc. (“Genitech”). For additional information regarding this matter, see Notes 2 and 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, we intend to 8 Table of Contents consider additional investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies. We may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses and any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. In particular, our operation of acquired businesses involves numerous risks, including, without limitation: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs and liabilities for which we are not able to obtain indemnification from the sellers; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no, or limited, prior experience; • risks associated with installation, service and maintenance of equipment of which we have limited or no prior experience; • limited technical documentation of the equipment developed in the acquired company; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. In addition, in the event of any future acquisitions of such businesses, products or technologies, we could: • issue shares that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership; • incur debt; • assume liabilities; • incur impairment expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets; or • incur large and immediate accounting write-offs. Substantially all of our equipment orders are subject to operating, performance, safety, economic specifications and other contractual obligations. We occasionally experience unforeseen difficulties in compliance with these criteria, which can result in increased design, installation and other costs and expenses. Substantially all of our equipment sales have specific commercial terms and are conditioned on our demonstration, and our customer’s acceptance, that the equipment meets specified operating and performance criteria, either before shipment or after installation in a customer’s facility. We occasionally experience difficulties in adhering to and demonstrating compliance with these terms and criteria, which can lead to unanticipated expenses for the performance of the contract or the redesign, modification and testing of the equipment and related software. To the extent this occurs in the future, our cost of goods sold and operating income will be adversely affected. If we are not able to demonstrate compliance with the particular contract or the performance and operating specifications in respect of specific equipment, we may have to pay penalties to the customer, issue credit notes to the customer and/or take other remedial action, including payment of damages, any one of which could negatively affect our operating income. We derive a significant percentage of our revenue from sales to a small number of large customers, and if we are not able to retain these customers, or they reschedule, reduce or cancel orders, our revenues would be reduced and our financial results would suffer. Our largest customers account for a significant percentage of our revenues. Our largest customer accounted for 17.2% and our ten largest customers accounted for 43.7% of our net sales in 2005. Sales to and the relative importance of these large customers have varied significantly from year to year and will continue to fluctuate in the future. These sales also may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We may not be able to retain our key customers or they may cancel purchase orders or reschedule or decrease their level of purchases from us, which would reduce our revenues and negatively affect our financial results. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more key customers could harm our financial results. We may need additional funds to finance our future growth and ongoing research and development activities. If we are unable to obtain such funds, we may not be able to expand our business as planned. In the past, we have experienced severe capital constraints that adversely affected our operations and ability to compete. We may require additional capital to finance our future growth and fund our ongoing research and development activities beyond 2006. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including acceptance of and demand for our products, and the extent to which we invest in new technology and research and development projects. 9 Table of Contents If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders would be diluted. If we finance our capital requirements with debt, we may incur significant interest costs. Additional financing may not be available to us when needed or, if available, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to raise needed additional funds, we may have to reduce the amount we spend on research and development, slow down our introduction of new products, reduce capital expenditures necessary to support future growth and/or take other measures to reduce expenses which could limit our growth and ability to compete. We could be harmed by the loss of key management. The success of our operations depends in significant part upon the experience of our management team, particularly our founder and CEO. We do not have employment agreements with some members of our management team and we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies. The loss of services from our key executives and the transition process with new management could harm or cause difficulties in our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recruit or retain qualified personnel or integrate qualified personnel into our organization. Consequently, we could experience reduced sales, delayed product development and diversion of management resources. Our business and future operating results depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, technical, sales and support personnel for our operations on a worldwide basis. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel particularly during sustained economic upturns in the industry. Availability of qualified technical personnel varies from country to country, and may affect the operations of our subsidiaries in some parts of the world. Our operations could be negatively affected if we lose key executives or employees or are unable to attract and retain skilled executives and employees as needed. In particular, if our growth strategies are successful, we may not have sufficient personnel to manage that growth and may not be able to attract the personnel needed. Although we have agreements with some, but not all, employees restricting their ability to compete with us after their employment terminates, we do not maintain insurance to protect against the loss of key executives or employees. Our future growth and operating results will depend on: • our ability to continue to broaden our senior management group; • our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled employees; and • the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. We have in the past experienced intense competition for skilled personnel during market expansions and believe competition will again be intense if the semiconductor market experiences a sustained expansion. Consequently, we generally attempt to minimize reductions in skilled personnel in reaction to industry downturns, which reduces our ability to lower costs by payroll reduction. Although we currently are a majority shareholder of ASM Pacific Technology, we may not be able to maintain our majority interest, which, if other circumstances are such that we do not control ASM Pacific Technology, would prevent us from consolidating its results of operations with ours. This event would have a significant negative effect on our consolidated net earnings from operations. We derive a significant portion of our net sales, earnings from operations and net earnings from the consolidation of the results of operations of ASM Pacific Technology with our results. If we do not maintain our majority interest in ASM Pacific Technology, and if other circumstances are such that we do not control it through other means, we would no longer be able to consolidate its results of operations with ours. Any such determination of whether we could continue to consolidate would be based on whether we still have a “controlling financial interest” within the meaning of United States generally accepted accounting principles. If we were to become unable to consolidate the results of operations of ASM Pacific Technology with our results, the results of operations of ASM Pacific Technology would no longer be included in our earnings from operations. Instead, our proportionate share of ASM Pacific Technology’s earnings would be reflected as a separate line-item called “share of results from investments” in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We would no longer be able to consolidate the assets and liabilities of ASM Pacific Technology and would have to reflect the net investment in ASM Pacific Technology in the line-item “investments” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. This event would have a significant negative effect on our consolidated earnings from operations, although our net earnings would be reduced only to the extent of the reduction of our ownership interest in ASM Pacific Technology. 10 Table of Contents ASM Pacific Technology has an employee share incentive program pursuant to which it can issue up to an aggregate of 5.0% of its total issued shares, excluding shares subscribed for or purchased under the program, to directors and employees. When ASM Pacific Technology issues shares pursuant to this program, our ownership interest is diluted. If the current maximum amount of shares is issued under this program, our ownership interest would continue to be above 50.0%. However, our interest could further be diluted if ASM Pacific Technology issues additional equity. Any such decision by ASM Pacific Technology to issue additional shares requires the approval of a majority of shareholders, which means that, at present, our approval would be required. Although we could purchase shares of ASM Pacific Technology if necessary to maintain our majority interest, we may be unable to do so if we do not have sufficient financial resources at that time. Although we are a majority shareholder, ASM Pacific Technology is not obligated to pay dividends to us and may take actions or enter into transactions that are detrimental to us. ASM Pacific Technology is a Cayman Islands limited liability company that is based in Hong Kong and listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2005, we owned 53.59% of ASM Pacific Technology through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Advanced Semiconductor Materials (Netherlands Antilles) N.V., a Netherlands Antilles company, and the remaining 46.41% was owned by the public. Two of the six directors of ASM Pacific Technology are affiliates of ASM International. However, they are under no obligation to take any actions that are beneficial to us. Issues and conflicts of interest therefore may arise which might not be resolved in our best interests. In addition, the directors of ASM Pacific Technology are under no obligation to declare a payment of dividends to shareholders. As a shareholder of ASM Pacific Technology, we cannot compel the payment or amount of dividends. With respect to the payment of dividends, the directors must consider the financial position of ASM Pacific Technology after the dividend. Since a portion of our cash flows available for our front-end segment is derived from the dividends we receive from ASM Pacific Technology, its failure to declare dividends in any year would negatively impact the cash position of our front-end segment for that year and reduce cash available to service our indebtedness. Cash dividends received from ASM Pacific Technology totaled € 24.1 million, € 40.4 million and € 37.0 million, in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. The directors of ASM Pacific Technology owe their fiduciary duties to ASM Pacific Technology, and may approve transactions to which we are a party only if the transactions are commercially beneficial to ASM Pacific Technology. Further, under the listing rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, directors who are on the boards of both ASM Pacific Technology and ASM International are not permitted to vote on a transaction involving both entities. This would disqualify both of the two affiliates of ASM International who currently serve on the board of ASM Pacific Technology from voting on any such transaction. As a shareholder of ASM Pacific Technology, we can vote our shares in accordance with our own interests. However, we may not be entitled to vote on transactions involving both us and ASM Pacific Technology under the listing rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the Hong Kong Takeover Code. In particular, under the Hong Kong Takeover Code we would be excluded from voting if we were directly involved in a takeover of ASM Pacific Technology in a transaction requiring a shareholder vote. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers could result in disruption of our operations. We outsource a substantial portion of the manufacturing of our front-end business to a limited number of suppliers. We are in the process of developing additional internal and external sources of supply for these manufacturing processes in the future, including an additional front-end supply source in Singapore. If our suppliers were unable or unwilling to deliver products to us in the quantities we require for any reason, including natural disaster, labor unrest, capacity constraints, supply chain management problems or contractual disputes, we may be unable to fill customer orders on a timely basis, which could negatively affect our financial performance and customer relationships. Because the costs to semiconductor manufacturers of switching from one semiconductor equipment supplier to another can be high, it may be more difficult to sell our products to customers having a competing installed base, which could limit our growth in sales and market share. We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer has selected a supplier’s equipment for a particular product line, that manufacturer generally continues to rely on that supplier for future equipment requirements, including new generations of similar products. Changing from one equipment supplier to another is expensive and requires a substantial investment of resources by the customer. Accordingly, it is difficult to achieve significant sales to a customer using another supplier’s equipment. Our inability to sell our products to potential customers who use another supplier’s equipment could adversely affect our ability to increase revenue and market share. 11 Table of Contents Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights from challenges by third parties; claims or litigation regarding intellectual property rights could require us to incur significant costs. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. These agreements and measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third party infringements, or to protect us from the claims of others. In addition, patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, rights granted to us under patents may not provide competitive advantages to us, and third parties may assert that our products infringe their patents, copyrights or trade secrets. Third parties could also independently develop similar products or duplicate our products. In addition, monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. The laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the Netherlands and the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely in these countries. If competitors are able to use our technology as their own, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. In recent years, there has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in semiconductor-related industries. Unrelated to our 1997 settlement with Applied Materials, discussed below, we entered into a settlement agreement with Applied Materials in August 2004 dismissing all claims and counter-claims over certain patent infringement proceedings in the United States without prejudice and without payment of any kind by any party and without licensing any patents. In addition, in April 2003, we and our subsidiary, ASM America entered into a binding memorandum of understanding regarding the settlement of mutual patent infringement claims between ASM America and Genus. In the future, additional litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others would force us to defend ourselves and possibly our customers or suppliers against the alleged infringement. Such claims, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. Regardless of the outcome, patent infringement litigation is time-consuming and expensive to resolve and diverts management time and attention. Intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following, any one of which could severely harm our business: • forfeit our proprietary rights; • stop manufacturing or selling our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell, produce, use, have produced, have sold or have used the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all or may involve significant royalty payments; • pay damages, including treble damages and attorney’s fees in some circumstances; or • redesign those products that use the challenged intellectual property. We license the use of some patents from a competitor pursuant to a settlement agreement; if the agreement is terminated, our business could be adversely affected. In October 1997, we entered into an agreement to settle mutual patent infringement litigation with Applied Materials, which was amended and restated in 1998, pursuant to which Applied Materials agreed to grant us a worldwide, non-exclusive and royalty-bearing license to use all of the litigated patents and certain additional patents that were not part of the litigation. In return we agreed to pay Applied Materials a settlement fee and to grant it a worldwide, non-exclusive and royalty-free license to use a number of our patents including but not limited to those patents which we were enforcing in the litigation. All licenses expire at the end of the life of the underlying patents. Our obligation to pay certain royalties to Applied Materials continues until the expiration of the corresponding underlying patent. In addition, the settlement agreement included covenants for limited periods during which the parties would not litigate the issue of whether certain of our products infringe any of Applied Materials’ patents that were not licensed to us under the settlement agreement. The covenants, which lasted for different periods of time for different products, have expired. Upon the occurrence of an event of default or other specified events, including, among other things, our failure to pay royalties, a change of control of ASM International, and improper use of the licenses, Applied Materials may terminate the settlement agreement, including the licenses included in the agreement. 12 Table of Contents Additional litigation with Applied Materials regarding other matters or the operation of the settlement agreement itself could occur. Litigation with Applied Materials, which has greater financial resources than we do, could negatively impact our earnings and financial position. We must offer a possible change of control transaction to Applied Materials first. Pursuant to our 1997 settlement agreement with Applied Materials, one of our competitors, as amended and restated in 1998, if we desire to effect a change of control transaction, as defined in the settlement agreement, with a competitor of Applied Materials, we must first offer the change of control transaction to Applied Materials on the same terms as we would be willing to accept from that competitor pursuant to a bona fide arm’s-length offer made by that competitor. We operate worldwide; economic, political, military or other events in a country where we make significant sales or have significant operations could interfere with our success or operations there and harm our business. We market and sell our products and services throughout the world. A substantial portion of our manufacturing employees and operations are in the People’s Republic of China and the success of our business depends on our operations there. In addition, we have facilities in the Netherlands, the United States, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and South Korea. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, including, without limitation: • unexpected changes in regulatory or legal requirements or changes in one country in which we do business which are inconsistent with regulations in another country in which we do business; • fluctuations in exchange rates and currency controls; • political conditions and instability, particularly in the countries in which our manufacturing facilities are located; • economic conditions and instability; • terrorist activities; • human health emergencies, such as the outbreak of infectious diseases or viruses, particularly in the countries in which our manufacturing facilities are located; • tariffs and other trade barriers, including current and future import and export restrictions, and freight rates; • difficulty in staffing, coordinating and managing international operations; • burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and licensing requirements; • difficulty in protecting intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; • limited ability to enforce agreements and other rights in some foreign countries; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles in some countries; and • business interruption and damage from natural disasters. To the extent that such disruptions slow the global economy or, more particularly, result in delays or cancellations of purchase orders, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our operational results could be negatively impacted by currency fluctuations. Our assets, liabilities and operating expenses and those of our subsidiaries are to a large extent denominated in the currency of the country where each entity is established. Our financial statements, including our Consolidated Financial Statements, are expressed in euros. The translation exposures that result from the inclusion of financial statements of our subsidiaries that are expressed in the currencies of the countries where the subsidiaries are located are not hedged. As a result, our operational results are exposed to fluctuations of various exchange rates. These net translation exposures are taken into account in determining Shareholders’ Equity. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the prices of our products. Prices for our products for sales to our customers throughout the world are currently denominated in various foreign currencies including, but not limited to, United States dollars, euros, Japanese yen and Chinese yuan. If there is a significant devaluation of the currency in a specific country, the prices of our products will increase relative to that country’s currency and our products may be less competitive in that country. Also, we cannot be sure that our international customers will continue to be willing to place orders denominated in these currencies. If they do not, our revenue and operating results will be subject to additional foreign exchange rate fluctuations. 13 Table of Contents Although we monitor our exposure to currency fluctuations, these fluctuations could negatively impact our earnings, cash flow and financial position. If our products are found to be defective, we may be required to recall and/or replace them, which could be costly and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. One or more of our products may be found to be defective after we have already shipped the products in volume, requiring a product replacement or recall. We may also be subject to product returns and product liability claims that could impose substantial costs and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to liability and increase our costs. Our operations are subject to many environmental laws and regulations wherever we operate governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. In February 2003, the European Commission published a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (“WEEE”) (Directive 2002/96/EC, which was amended in December 2003 by Directive 2003/108/EC), and which has been implemented in the Netherlands. In principle, the rules result in “take-back” obligations of manufacturers and/or the responsibility of manufacturers for the financing of the collection, recovery and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment by requiring that European Union Member States adopt appropriate measures to minimize WEEE disposal and achieve high levels of collection and separation of WEEE. As of August 13, 2005 producers of WEEE will have to provide for the financing of the collection, treatment, recovery and environmentally sound disposal of WEEE. Another directive of the European Commission (Directive 2002/95/EC) provides for a ban on the use of lead and some flame retardants in manufacturing electronic components. To the extent these and other regulations apply to our business in Europe and elsewhere throughout the world, these measures could adversely affect our manufacturing costs or product sales by forcing us or our suppliers to change production processes or use more costly materials. As with other companies engaged in similar activities, we face inherent risks of environmental liability in our current and historical manufacturing activities. Costs associated with future environmental compliance or remediation obligations could adversely affect our business. Members of our Supervisory Board and Management Board and our executive officers control approximately 23.2% of our voting power which gives them significant influence over matters voted on by our shareholders, including the election of members of our Supervisory Board and Management Board and makes it substantially more difficult for a shareholder group to remove or elect such members without the support of management. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer controlled approximately 21.8% of the voting power of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2005, and the members of our Supervisory Board and Management Board and all our executive officers as a group controlled approximately 23.2% of the voting power of our outstanding common shares as of that date. Accordingly, these persons have significant influence on the outcome of matters submitted to a shareholder vote, such as the election of the members of our Supervisory Board and Management Board. Persons nominated in a non-binding nomination by the Supervisory Board for appointment by the shareholders to the Supervisory Board or Management Board at the annual general meeting of shareholders will be elected if the number of affirmative votes exceeds the number of negative votes cast by holders of the outstanding shares present or represented at the meeting and entitled to vote. Persons nominated in a binding nomination by the Supervisory Board for appointment by shareholders to the Supervisory Board and Management Board at the annual general meeting of shareholders are so appointed unless shareholders reject such nomination by a vote of at least two-thirds of the votes cast, provided that the votes to reject represent at least 50% of all issued and outstanding shares eligible to vote. This makes it difficult for a group of shareholders to remove or elect members of our Supervisory Board or Management Board without the support of management. Our anti-takeover provisions may prevent a beneficial change of control. Our shareholders have granted to Stichting Continuïteit ASM International, or Stichting, a non-membership organization with a board composed of our President and Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of our Supervisory Board and three independent members, the right to acquire and vote our preferred shares to maintain the continuity of our company. Toward that objective, Stichting will evaluate, when called for, whether a takeover offer is in our best interest, and may, if it determines that such action is 14 Table of Contents appropriate, acquire preferred shares with voting power equal to 50.0% of the voting power of the outstanding common shares. This is likely to be sufficient to enable it to prevent a change of control from occurring. For additional information regarding Stichting, see Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” These provisions may prevent us from entering into a change of control transaction that may otherwise offer our shareholders an opportunity to sell shares at a premium over the market price. Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated substantially in the past. Between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2005, the sales price of our common shares, as reported on the NASDAQ Stock Market, ranged from a low of US$ 12.83 to a high of US$ 19.15. The market price of our common shares will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in the future in response to a variety of factors, including the risk factors discussed in this report and the following, without limitation: • future announcements concerning our business or that of our competitors or customers; • the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; • litigation regarding proprietary rights or other matters; • changes in analysts’ earnings estimates; • developments in the financial markets; • quarterly fluctuations in operating results; • general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations; or • general conditions in the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries. In addition, public stock markets frequently experience substantial price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the high technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Compliance with Internal Controls Evaluations and Attestation Requirements. We are subject to United States securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations adopted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Act. Under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations, we are required to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditor publicly attest to this evaluation beginning with the year ended December 31, 2006. We have commenced the evaluation and expect to complete it in the course of 2006. Internal control evaluations and attestation requirements are time-consuming and expensive. If we would fail to complete the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting in time, if we would identify material weaknesses in these internal controls, or if our independent accountant could not timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and decreased public confidence in our internal controls, which may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. 