RISK FACTORS We are at an early stage of development We are an early stage company. We have not yet developed any substantial market for our primary products. Our principal revenues have been contract research and testing and consulting services for other companies, which have historically been minimal. To achieve profitable operations, we, alone or with others, must successfully develop, introduce and market our drug discovery and toxicology testing and other products. While we have successfully developed the C3A human liver cell line for drug screening and in vitro toxicology applications, we have to date not developed other cell lines. No assurance can be given that our product research and development efforts will be successfully completed or that any products, if developed and introduced, will be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance. We have a history of operating losses, and our future profitability is uncertain We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception and have generated minimal revenues from operations. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was 137,126,448. To date, we have been dependent on capital infusions for financing. Our ability to achieve a profitable level of operations is dependent in large part on marketing our existing product, completing development of our potential products and making the transition to commercializing such products. No assurance can be given that our product research and development efforts will be completed, that any products will be manufactured or marketed or that profitability will be achieved. We will likely require additional funds to achieve profitable operations. We may not be able to commercially develop our technologies and proposed product lines, which, in turn, would significantly harm our ability to earn revenues and result in a loss of investment Our ability to commercially develop our technologies will be dictated in large part by forces outside our control which cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, the success of our research and pre-clinical and field testing, the availability of collaborative partners to finance our work in pursuing applications of our technology and technological or other developments in the biomedical field which, due to efficiencies, technological breakthroughs or greater acceptance in the biomedical industry, may render one or more areas of commercialization more attractive, obsolete or competitively unattractive. It is possible that one or more areas of commercialization will not be pursued at all if a collaborative partner or entity willing to fund research and development cannot be located. Our decisions regarding the ultimate products and/or services we pursue could have a significant adverse affect on our ability to earn revenue if we misinterpret trends, underestimate development costs and/or pursue wrong products or services. Any of these factors either alone or in concert could materially harm our ability to earn revenues and could result in a loss of any investment in us. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological changes in our field or compete effectively, we will be unable to operate profitably We are engaged in activities in the biotechnology field, which is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments, our ability to operate profitably could suffer. We cannot assure you that research and discoveries by other biotechnology, agricultural, pharmaceutical or other companies will not render our technologies or potential products or services uneconomical or result in products superior to those we develop or that any technologies, products or services we develop will be preferred to any existing or newly-developed technologies, products or services. We have limited marketing experience and capacity Although we believe that the market for our products constitutes a small and manageable number of parties, currently we have minimal sales and marketing employees. To the extent that we determine not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative agreements or to arrange for third party distribution of our potential products, significant additional resources may be required to develop a marketing and sales force. Should we elect to license or sell products to distributors, a significant portion of the profits from such products may be realized by such licensees or distributors, rather than by us. We are dependent on Dr. Kelly and other key personnel Our ability to develop our business depends upon our attracting and retaining qualified management and scientific personnel, including consultants and members of our scientific advisory board. As the number of qualified scientists is limited and competition for such personnel is intense, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain such persons. In particular, we will be dependent upon the continued services of Dr. James H. Kelly, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company. The loss of key personnel, such as Dr. Kelly, or the failure to recruit additional key personnel could significantly impede attainment of our objectives and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Dr. Kelly does not have an employment agreement with us. We may not be able to effectively manage the growth of our staff Our business plan calls for increasing our staffing levels in the future. Our ability to execute our strategies will depend in part upon our ability to integrate such new employees into our operations and fund such added costs. Our planned activities will require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel in areas such as manufacturing and marketing. The inability to acquire such services or to develop such expertise could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We are dependent on the validity of our patents Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for our proprietary products and to preserve our trade secrets related to drug screening and other uses of the C3A cell line and the production and use of other cell lines developed from pluripotent cells. We have obtained one patent, have exclusive license rights to five additional patents and have submitted one more patent application relating to the existing patent and one new patent application family. Any present or future patents may not prevent others from developing competitive products. Moreover, the Hogan patent we license from Vanderbilt University has a term that expires in 2012 and is limited to the United States. No assurance can be given that our patent application will be approved, that any current or future patents will provide us with competitive advantages for our products, or that they will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors. While we believe that the methods described in our patents will provide us freedom to operate our business without infringing patent rights or other intellectual property held by other entities, we have not conducted an exhaustive patent search and no assurance can be given that patents do not exist or could not be filed which would have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products or modifications or improvements to our products. If other companies were to successfully bring legal actions against us claiming patent or other intellectual property right infringements, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to use the affected process or to manufacture or use the affected product or may be required to cease using such products or processes. There can be no assurance that we would prevail in any such action or that any license required under any such patent would be made available on acceptable terms, or at all. There could be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in such litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our financial and human resources, regardless of the outcome of such litigation. Our licensing agreements with Baylor College of Medicine and Vanderbilt University potentially require us to expend significant amounts to prosecute infringement cases to maintain our exclusivity under such agreements. There can be no assurance that we will have the funds sufficient to continue our rights under such agreements, or to commercialize the licensed technology. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or independently developed by competitors. Restrictions on the use of human embryonic stem cells, and the ethical, legal and social implications of that research, could prevent us from developing or gaining acceptance for commercially viable products in these areas or, alternatively, could broaden competition for federal funding Our most important programs involve the use of PC(TM) cells that are derived from aborted fetuses. Use of PC(TM) cells is not as widely accepted in the scientific community as the use of embryonic stem cells. Moreover, the use of PC(TM) cells gives rise to ethical, legal and social issues regarding the appropriate use of these cells. In the event that our research related to human PC(TM) cells becomes the subject of adverse commentary or publicity, the market price for our Common Stock could be significantly harmed. Many research institutions have adopted policies regarding the ethical use of human embryonic tissue. These policies may have the effect of limiting the scope of research conducted using PC(TM) cells, thereby impairing our ability to conduct research in this field. Potential and actual legislation and regulation at the federal or state level related to our technology could limit our activities and ability to develop products for commercial sales, depriving us of our anticipated source of future revenues. Alternatively, a relaxation of existing limits on federal funding of laboratories using embryonic stem cells other than certain pre-existing cell lines could result in more competition for federal funding. While we believe our two liver cell lines are adequate for our current commercial objectives, and while we are not aware of any pending legislation that would affect our ability to utilize those cell lines or to use PC(TM) cells, any future or additional government-imposed restrictions in these or other jurisdictions with respect to use of human PC(TM) cells in research and development could have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things: o harming our ability to establish critical partnerships and collaborations, o delaying or preventing progress in our research and development, o limiting or preventing the development, sale or use of our products, and o causing a decrease in the price of our stock. We face potential product and professional liability exposure We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of products manufactured by us results in adverse effects. We may also face professional liability as a result of our contract research and other services. While we will continue to attempt to take appropriate precautions, there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant exposure to such liabilities. Because we have not yet sold any products except for research purposes, and because of the expense of insurance, we do not carry product or professional liability insurance. While we intend to obtain product liability insurance at such time as our operations require it, subject to our ability to pay for such insurance, we do not currently intend to obtain professional liability insurance. There can be no assurance that any coverage which we may obtain will be adequate or that adequate insurance coverage will be available at acceptable cost, if at all, or that a product or professional liability claim would not materially adversely affect our business or financial condition. We may lack the resources to defend ourself or our employees, officers or directors against any product liability or professional liability claims. There is a limited market for the Common Stock As a result of the absence of any listing on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation system ("Nasdaq") or a national securities exchange, the trading market for the Common Stock is currently limited to the OTC Bulletin Board, and if it were delisted from the OTC Bulletin Board, its trading market would be limited to the "pink sheets." So long as the Common Stock is not listed on Nasdaq or any exchange and the bid price for the Common Stock remains below $5.00 per share, the Common Stock will be subject to additional federal and state regulatory requirements. Among other things, broker-dealers will be required to satisfy special sales practice requirements, including making individualized written suitability determinations and receiving any purchaser's consent prior to any transaction in the Common Stock. Also, the Company's securities are considered "penny stocks," which requires additional disclosures in connection with trades in such securities, including the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the nature and risks of the penny stock market. Such restricted market and additional regulatory requirements limit the liquidity of the Company's securities, as well as adversely affect the ability of the Company to raise additional financing through issuances of its securities. Additional offerings of securities by the Company may be dilutive to current shareholder interests and may not be available on favorable terms As of March 31, 2006, the Company has approximately $2.8 million of cash and cash equivalents, which management of the Company believes will be sufficient to fund the Company's operations for at least 12 months. The Company may have to engage in subsequent offerings to raise additional capital at available prices, which may be substantially dilutive to the holdings of the shareholders. There can be no assurances, in any event, that the Company will be able to raise sufficient funds to continue its operations or pursue its business objectives. In addition, any disruption in the availability of funds may jeopardize relationships with customers, suppliers and personnel and adversely affect the Company's ability to achieve its business objectives. Absence of sufficient authorized shares of Common Stock The Company has only 55 million shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance. However, as a result of the Merger and the other transactions completed concurrent with the Merger, the Company has approximately 1.3 billion shares of Common Stock either outstanding or issuable upon conversion or exercise of outstanding securities. Moreover, pursuant to the Subscription Agreements, the Company will incur substantial penalties if it fails to obtain shareholder approval to increase the authorized Common Stock to two billion shares by January 31, 2007. While the Company believes that complying with this timeframe is feasible, there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so, and any failure could adversely affect the Company and the market for its Common Stock. Volatility of Stock Price The securities of biotechnology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the companies' operating performance. Announcements of technological innovations for new commercial products by us or our competitors, developments concerning proprietary rights or general conditions in the biotechnology and health industries may have a significant effect on our business and on the market price of the Common Stock. Sales of shares of Common Stock by existing security holders could also have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company's securities, given the limited trading and low price of its securities. Control by Insiders; Conflicts of Interest The present officers and directors and founding shareholders of Amphioxus own a majority of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock and Series 1 Preferred taken as a single class. Therefore, they can, and for the foreseeable future will be able to, elect the entire Board of Directors of the Company and to govern its affairs, including whether it enters into any mergers, consolidations, asset sales or acquisitions and other extraordinary transactions. Mark Germain, a director of the Company, has interests in other companies in the biotechnology industry and, while he is not aware of any such situations currently, could be presented with circumstances in which the interests of such other companies may be contrary to the interests of the Company. Anti-Takeover Provisions The Board of Directors of the Company has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix the number of shares constituting any such series, the voting powers, designation, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, including the dividend rights, terms of redemption (including sinking fund provisions), conversion rights and liquidation preferences of the shares constituting any series, without any further vote or action by stockholders. The Board of Directors may, therefore, in the future issue preferred stock with voting and conversion rights which could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of Common Stock or Series 1 Preferred. In addition, the issuance of any such preferred stock, as well as certain statutory provisions of Delaware law, could potentially be used to discourage attempts by others to obtain control of the Company through merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise by making such attempts more difficult to achieve or more costly. Absence of Dividends; Dividend Policy The Company has not paid any dividends on the Common Stock since its formation. The Company does not currently intend to pay any dividends upon the Common Stock in the foreseeable future and anticipates that earnings, if any, will be used to finance the development and expansion of its business. The Company's ability to pay dividends on the Common Stock will be limited by the preferences of any preferred stock which may be outstanding from time to time and may be limited by future indebtedness. Moreover, the terms of the Series 2 Preferred prevent the payment of any dividends on the Common Stock as long as there are any accrued but unpaid dividends on the Series 2 Preferred. Any payment of future dividends and the amounts thereof will be dependent upon the Company's earnings, financial requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the Company's Board of Directors, including the Company's contractual obligations. Possibility of Impediment to Listing of Common Stock Margie Chassman beneficially owns approximately 215,962,468 shares of Common Stock, or approximately 21% of the issued and outstanding Common Stock, assuming conversion of all outstanding Series 1 Preferred and the conversion of all other convertible securities held by Ms. Chassman and the exercise of all outstanding warrants, options and other rights granted by the Company and held by Ms. Chassman. Ms. Chassman is the wife of David Blech, who disclaims beneficial ownership of such securities. Notwithstanding such disclaimer, Mr. Blech may be deemed to own or control a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to assert effective control over the business and affairs of the Company, including but not limited to having sufficient voting power to control the election of its Board of Directors and, in general, to substantially determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to the stockholders of the Company for approval, including mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of the Company's assets or preventing or causing a change in the control of the Company. In addition to Mr. Blech's potential ability to control the affairs of the Company, that potential control may deter other potential financing sources from making an investment in the Company. In May 1998, David Blech pled guilty to two counts of criminal securities fraud, and, in September 1999, he was sentenced by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to five years' probation. Mr. Blech also settled administrative charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission in December 2000 arising out of the collapse in 1994 of D. Blech & Co., a broker-dealer of which Mr. Blech was President and sole stockholder. Such settlement prohibits Mr. Blech from engaging in future violations of the federal securities laws and from association with any broker-dealer. In addition, the District Business Conduct Committee for District No.10 of NASD Regulation, Inc. reached a decision, dated December 3, 1996, in a matter styled District Business Conduct Committee for District No. 10 v. David Blech, regarding the alleged failure of Mr. Blech to respond to requests by the staff of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD") for documents and information in connection with seven customer complaints against various registered representatives of D. Blech & Co. The decision found that Mr. Blech failed to respond to such requests in violation of NASD rules and that Mr. Blech should, therefore, be censured, fined $20,000 and barred from associating with any member firm in any capacity. Furthermore, Mr. Blech was discharged in bankruptcy in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York in March 2000. In the event the Company seeks to list its shares on a securities exchange or on Nasdaq, whether or not in connection with a public offering of the Company's securities, Nasdaq or the exchange(s) to which a listing application is made may refuse to grant such listing or may require as a condition thereof that David Blech and persons associated with him dissociate themselves from the Company. As a result, the Company may be precluded from having its securities listed on any exchange or Nasdaq. Further, trading in the Company's securities may be restricted to the OTC Bulletin Board, which is a less liquid market than the established exchanges and Nasdaq. 