ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Common Stock of Ameris is subject to risks inherent in the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect Ameris are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This Annual Report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Common Stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 18 Table of Contents Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact the Company’s operations and results. Negative developments in the capital markets since the latter half of 2007 and the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing through 2009 have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for the Company’s deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like Ameris, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has the Company’s ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could adversely impact the Company’s operations, including the Company’s ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact the Company’s financial performance. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect Ameris. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to the Company. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. There can be no assurance that enacted legislation or any proposed federal programs will stabilize the U.S. financial system and such legislation and programs may adversely affect Ameris. On October 3, 2008, President George W. Bush signed into law the EESA. The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. In addition, on October 14, 2008, the Treasury established the CPP, pursuant to which the Treasury would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions. The Company has elected to participate in the CPP. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets or the Company’s participation in the CPP. The failure of the EESA or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and access to credit or the trading price of the Common Stock. Contemplated and proposed legislation, state and federal programs, and increased government control or influence may adversely affect the Company by increasing the uncertainty in the Company’s lending operations and expose the Company to increased losses, including legislation that would allow bankruptcy courts to permit modifications to mortgage loans on a debtor’s primary residence, moratoriums on a mortgagor’s right to foreclose on property, and requirements that fees be paid to register other real estate owned property. Statutes and regulations may be altered that may potentially increase the Company’s costs to service and underwrite mortgage loans. Additionally, federal intervention and operation of formerly private institutions may adversely affect the Company’s rights under contracts with such institutions and the way in which the Company conducts business in certain markets. The impact on the Company of recently enacted legislation, in particular the EESA and its implementing regulations, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and the Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects upon the Company. Because the Company participates in the CPP, the Company is subject to increased regulation, and the Company may face additional regulations or changes to regulations to which the Company is subject as a result of its participation. Compliance with such regulation may increase the Company’s costs and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. For example, participation in the CPP limits (without the consent of the Treasury) the Company’s ability to 19 Table of Contents increase its dividend or to repurchase the Common Stock for so long as any securities issued under the CPP remain outstanding. Also, the cumulative dividend payable under the Preferred Shares that the Company issued to the Treasury pursuant to the CPP increases from 5% to 9% after five (5) years. Additionally, the Company may not deduct interest paid on the Preferred Shares for income tax purposes. Participating in the CPP also subjects the Company to additional executive compensation restrictions. These restrictions are discussed in greater detail in the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held in 2009 (the “Proxy Statement”), portions of which are incorporated by reference into Part III, Item 11 “Executive Compensation” of this Annual Report. Treasury “stress tests” and other actions may adversely affect bank operations and the value of the Common Stock. On February 10, 2009, the Secretary of the Treasury outlined a plan to restore stability to the financial system. This announcement included reference to a plan by the Treasury to conduct “stress tests” of banks which received funds under the CPP and similar Treasury programs. The methods and procedures to be used by the Treasury in conducting its “stress tests,” how these methods and procedures will be applied, and the significance or consequence of such tests presently are not known. Any of these or their consequences could adversely affect the Company, its bank operations and the value of the Common Stock, among other things. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the control of Ameris, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities and the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income and, therefore, its earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If the Company has higher loan losses than it has allowed for, its earnings could materially decrease. The Company’s loan customers may not repay loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. Ameris may therefore experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Ameris makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, the Company relies on many factors including its previous experience and its evaluation of economic conditions. If assumptions prove to be incorrect, the current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio and adjustment may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in the loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Company to significantly increase the level of its provision for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. Ameris has a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, could result in losses and materially and adversely affect business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, often loans are secured with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2008, approximately 83.9% of loans have commercial or residential real estate as a component of collateral. The real estate in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. Further adverse changes in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in Ameris’ primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of collateral and ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Furthermore, it is likely that, in a decreasing real estate market, Ameris would be required to increase its allowance for loan losses as occurred in 2008, causing material strain on recurring levels of net income. If the Company is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values or to increase its allowance for loan losses, its profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 20 Table of Contents Ameris operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely impacted by changes in law and regulations. Ameris, primarily through its Bank, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial, unpredictable and adverse ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Ameris relies on dividends from its banking subsidiary for most of its revenue. Ameris is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Common Stock and interest and principal on the Company’s debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. Also, the Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Common Stock and its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Ameris’ Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may prevent or delay a takeover by another company. Ameris’ Articles of Incorporation permit Ameris’ Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareowner action. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage a company from attempting to obtain control of Ameris by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. Additionally, Ameris’ Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws divide Ameris’ Board of Directors into three classes, as nearly equal in size as possible, with staggered three-year terms. One class is elected each year. The classification of Ameris’ Board of Directors could make it more difficult for a company to acquire control of Ameris. Ameris is also subject to certain provisions of the Georgia Business Corporation Code and Ameris’ Articles of Incorporation which relate to business combinations with interested shareholders. Ameris operates in a highly competitive industry and market areas. Ameris faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of whom are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets in which the Bank operates. Ameris also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loan institutions, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can. 21 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: Ÿ the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; Ÿ the ability to expand the Company’s market position; Ÿ the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; Ÿ the rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors; Ÿ customer satisfaction with the Company’s level of service; and Ÿ industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Potential acquisitions may disrupt the Company’s business and dilute shareholder value. Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: Ÿ potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; Ÿ exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; Ÿ difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; Ÿ potential disruption to the Company’s business; Ÿ potential diversion of the Company’s management’s time and attention; Ÿ the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; Ÿ difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and Ÿ potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. Ameris has recently acquired other financial institutions and often evaluates additional merger and acquisition opportunities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities of the Company may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits and synergies from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Ameris continually encounters technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Ameris may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 