Risk Factors, included elsewhere in this annual report. SUNOPTA INC. 3 December 31, 2011 10-K PART I Item 1. Business INTRODUCTION SunOpta, a corporation organized under the laws of Canada in 1973, is a leading global company focused on natural, organic and specialty foods products. We specialize in sourcing, processing and packaging of natural and organic food products, integrated from seed through packaged products, with a focus on strategically vertically integrated business models. Our core natural and organic food operations focus on value-added grains, fiber and fruit based product offerings, supported by a global sourcing and supply infrastructure. Our assets, operations and employees are principally located in North America and Europe. We have two non-core holdings, a 66.2% ownership position in Opta Minerals Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Opta Minerals”), a producer, distributor and recycler of industrial materials, and a non-controlling (18.65%) ownership position in Mascoma Corporation (“Mascoma”), an innovative biofuels company. Segment Information We divide our operations into the following two industry segments: SunOpta Foods, which accounted for approximately 91% of our fiscal 2011 consolidated revenues, and Opta Minerals, which represented approximately 9% of our fiscal 2011 consolidated revenues. SunOpta Foods operates in the natural, organic and specialty foods and natural health product sectors. We believe these markets will continue to grow as consumers focus on health and wellness. SunOpta Foods was comprised of the following four separate operating segments at the end of fiscal 2011: Grains and Foods Group; Ingredients Group; Fruit Group; and International Foods Group. Opta Minerals processes, sells and distributes silica-free loose abrasives and other specialty industrial minerals to the foundry, steel, loose abrasive cleaning, roofing shingle, construction and marine/bridge cleaning industries; sources specialty sands and garnets for the water filtration industry; and recycles inorganic materials under special permits from government authorities at both its Waterdown, Ontario and Norfolk, Virginia sites. The common shares of Opta Minerals are traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”), under the symbol “OPM”. Financial information for each segment describing revenues from external customers, a measure of profit or loss, and total assets for the last three fiscal years, as well as financial information about geographic areas for the last three fiscal years, is set forth in note 21 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. As more fully described below, we are realigning our operating segments for subsequent periods. Beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2012, we will report segmented information for SunOpta Foods based on four operating segments: Grains and Foods, Ingredients, Consumer Products and International Foods. Recent Business Developments Our strategy over the past two years has been to focus on our core natural and organic value-added foods business. In this regard, we have completed a number of selective acquisitions, as follows: In August 2011, we completed the acquisition of the assets and business of Lorton’s Fresh Squeezed Juices, Inc. (“Lorton’s”) for cash consideration and amounts payable for additional working capital of $2,602, plus an earn-out based on pre-determined earnings targets over a three-year period. Lorton’s is a vertically integrated producer of a variety of citrus based products in both industrial and packaged formats. This acquisition expands our vertically integrated operations into the extracting, processing and packaging of citrus-based ingredients through consumer packaged products, and provides increased capacity for future growth and expansion. Lorton’s operations are included in the International Foods Group. SUNOPTA INC. 4 December 31, 2011 10-K In December 2010, we completed the acquisition of the assets and business of Edner of Nevada, Inc. (“Edner”) for cash consideration and amounts payable for additional working capital of $4,198, plus an earn-out based on pre- determined revenue targets over a five-year period. Edner produces a wide variety of nutritious portable foods such as nutrition bars and grains and fruit-based snack bars serving the fast growing wholesome and convenient healthy snacks category from its 104,000 square foot facility, located in Carson City, Nevada. Edner’s operations are included in the Fruit Group. In November 2010, we completed the acquisition of Dahlgren & Company Inc. (“Dahlgren”) for cash consideration and amounts payable for additional working capital of $46,303, plus an earn-out based on pre-determined revenue targets over a two-year period. Dahlgren is an integrated processor and global supplier of confection sunflower seed products including in-shell and kernel products, roasted sunflower and soy nuts, bird food, hybrid seed and other products. Dahlgren serves customers in the U.S. and Canada, as well as Europe, Asia, Australia and South America. Dahlgren’s operations are included in the Grains and Foods Group. In addition, we have invested in a number of internal growth projects to diversify our sources of supply, as well as to add capacity, improve profitability, and expand our value-added processing capabilities at a number of our facilities, as follows: In December 2011, we announced that the International Foods Group will expand its fair trade and organic coffee business with the development of operations in the Republic of Cape Verde. Trabocca B.V. (“Trabocca”), 65% owned by us, together with a local Cape Verde partner have formed Fogo Coffee Spirit Ltd. (“Fogo Coffee”). Fogo Coffee will establish a coffee processing facility to produce the first certified organic, Fogo-origin, high quality coffee in the Republic of Cape Verde. Trabocca will own 51% while Casa Rodrigo Ltd., a Cape Verde company, will own the remaining share, with Trabocca exclusively marketing the coffee worldwide. In December 2011, we completed the installation of an aseptic processing line with a processing capacity of approximately 30 million pounds at Pacific Fruit Processors, our value-added fruit ingredients operation within the Fruit Group. Target applications for the new equipment include fruit bases for yogurts, smoothies, fruit toppings and food service products, in both organic and conventional formats. During 2011, SunOpta Food Solutions, a division of the International Foods Group, installed two flexible re-sealable pouch filling lines at a third-party production facility in California. The flexible re-sealable pouch is applicable to a wide range of product categories including natural and organic fruit and vegetable snacks, apple sauces, tomato products, baby food, yogurts and toppings. The new filling lines have an estimated annual capacity of 36 million pouches. We have also finalized arrangements for a facility to be located on the U.S. east coast to accommodate the addition of at least two more flexible pouch filling lines, scheduled to be operational in August 2012. In October 2011, the Grains and Food Group commenced the expansion of our aseptic non-dairy beverage processing and packaging capabilities at our Modesto, California plant, which will increase our overall aseptic non- dairy beverage and broth capacity by approximately 10% to between 250 and 300 million quarts of non-dairy beverages and broths, depending on product mix. Full capacity is expected to be on-line in the third quarter of 2012. The expansion is required to meet growing demand for natural and organic beverages such as soy, rice, almond and sunflower. In 2010, our Grains and Foods Group completed an upgrade and retrofit at our Alexandria, Minnesota aseptic processing and packaging facility. In March 2010, we commissioned an environmentally responsible energy recovery project at our Cambridge, Minnesota oat fiber facility within our Ingredients Group. The project involves the extraction of methane from the digestion of waste-water resulting from the oat fiber production process, and subsequent conversion of that methane into pipeline quality natural gas used to help power the facility. This project has significantly reduced the amount of greenhouse gases and various waste materials emitted from the facility, as well as provided an acceptable return on invested capital as a result of lower utility expenses. SUNOPTA INC. 5 December 31, 2011 10-K We have also completed the following strategic divestitures of non-core assets in order to simplify our business model: In June 2011, we completed the sale of land and buildings in Irapuato, Mexico to parties related to Fruvemex Mexicali, S.A. de C.V. (“Fruvemex”). In addition, in April 2011, we sold our frozen fruit processing assets in Rosarito and Irapuato, Mexico to Fruvemex. As part of this transaction we also entered into a strategic raw material supply agreement with Fruvemex. These assets were included in the Fruit Group. Aggregate consideration related to these transactions amounted to $5,650, of which $1,000 was received on closing and the balance due in installments over the following 12 months. In May 2011, the Fruit Group completed the sale of frozen fruit processing equipment located in Salinas, California to Cal Pacific Specialty Foods, LLC (“Cal Pacific”) for cash consideration of $1,773. In August 2010, we completed the sale of SunOpta BioProcess Inc. (“SunOpta BioProcess”) to Mascoma Canada Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Mascoma, in exchange for a combination of preferred shares, common shares and warrants of Mascoma valued at $50,925 and net value of $33,345 after settling the preferred share liability with former SunOpta BioProcess shareholders. The combination of the two companies brings together SunOpta BioProcess' fiber preparation and pretreatment technology with Mascoma's consolidated bioprocessing technology, to create a company with comprehensive capabilities for converting non–food cellulose (wood chips, energy crops and organic solid waste) into ethanol and high value co–products. SunOpta BioProcess represented the former SunOpta BioProcess segment. In June 2010, we completed the sale of our Canadian Food Distribution assets to UNFI Canada, Inc., a wholly- owned subsidiary of United Natural Foods, Inc., (“UNFI”) for cash consideration of $65,809 (Cdn $68,000). The divestiture of the Canadian Food Distribution assets was an important step in our strategy to focus on our core food manufacturing platform, further strengthening our balance sheet and positioning SunOpta for the future. The Canadian Food Distribution assets formed part of the former SunOpta Distribution Group. For more information regarding acquisitions and divestitures, see Notes 2 and 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Recent Developments Segment realignment and rationalization efforts In February 2012, we announced that a process to streamline operations and organizational structure had been undertaken to streamline operations, drive efficiencies and better align product innovation and commercial activities. During the first quarter of 2012, we realigned the operating segments within SunOpta Foods will be re-aligned to better align with the markets and customers serviced, rather than by product groupings. As a result, the former Fruit Group has been eliminated and a new Consumer Products Group has been created to focus on non-grains based consumer packaged goods. The Consumer Products Group is comprised of the Frozen Foods and Healthy Snacks operations which were part of the former Fruit Group, and the Food Solutions operations which were formerly part of the International Foods Group. The Fruit Ingredient operation of the former Fruit Group has been merged with the existing Ingredients Group. The International Foods Group is comprised of our international sourcing and supply operations (Tradin Organic) and the operations of Purity Life Health Products. The Grains and Foods Group will remain unchanged. With this realignment, SunOpta Foods consists of four operating segments: Grains and Foods, Ingredients, Consumer Products and International Foods. We intend to begin reporting segmented information based on these new operating segments for the quarter ending March 31, 2012. In hand with these efforts, we also announced the rationalization of a number of operations and functions which led to a 6% reduction of our salaried workforce. Once fully implemented, and after approximately $500 in severance charges, this rationalization is expected to reduce annual costs by approximately $3,000 before tax. Colorado Sun Oil Processing LLC In January 2012, we received the decision of an arbitrator in an action initiated by Colorado Mills, LLC (“Colorado Mills”) in March 2010 relating to claims arising out of a Joint Venture Agreement (“JVA”) between Colorado Mills and SunOpta. Each party had asserted claims against the other with regards to pricing and delivery of sunflower crude oil as per the terms of the JVA. The arbitrator ruled in favor of Colorado Mills and concluded that we should pay Colorado Mills $5,246 in monetary damages, including interest. The full after-tax amount of the award was recorded in discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Adjustments to the accrual may be made in future periods depending on the outcome of a motion to vacate for which we have filed a notice of intent with the supervising court. For more information on this matter, see Note 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. SUNOPTA INC. 6 December 31, 2011 10-K Under the terms of the JVA, Colorado Sun Oil Processing LLC (“CSOP”) was organized in 2008 to construct and operate a vegetable oil refinery adjacent to Colorado Mills’ sunflower seed crush plant. In August 2011, we disposed of our interest in CSOP to Colorado Mills in accordance with a bankruptcy court ruling that approved Colorado Mills’ offer for the assets of CSOP over our offer. A gain on disposal of $71 was recorded in discontinued operations (for more information, see Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). CSOP operated as part of the Grains and Foods Group. Credit Facility Amendment In January 2012, we completed amendments to our syndicated banking facilities, which included increases in the Canadian revolving credit facility from Cdn $5,000 to Cdn $10,000 and the U.S. revolving credit facility from $100,000 to $115,000, with a corresponding $20,000 decrease in the amount of availability under the facilities' accordion feature. The facilities’ maturity date of October 30, 2012 did not change. Opta Minerals Strategic Review In December 2011, the Board of Directors of Opta Minerals decided to suspend a strategic review process that was initiated in September 2011. The intent of this process was to identify and review strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value, including a possible sale of Opta Minerals. The decision to suspend the process was based, in part, on an assessment of current global market conditions and a number of near-term growth opportunities within Opta Minerals. As part of these growth opportunities, Opta Minerals recently completed the following acquisitions: In February 2012, Opta Minerals acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Babco Industrial Corp. (“Babco”) located in Regina, Saskatchewan for cash at closing of approximately $17,600, subject to customary post- closing purchase price adjustments, plus contingent consideration of up to $1,300 based on the achievement of certain EBITDA targets over the next five years. Babco is an industrial processor and supplier of petroleum coke, synthetic slag, ladle sand and crushed graphite. This acquisition complements Opta Minerals existing product portfolio and provides for additional product line offerings to new and existing customers in the region. In November 2011, Opta Minerals acquired the members' interest in Inland RC, LLC, (“Inland”) a manufacturer of pre-cast refractory shapes, injection lances and electric furnace deltas for cash consideration of $658 plus contingent consideration based on the achievement of certain future targets. Inland’s business is complementary with current Opta Minerals product offerings and has capacity for growth and significant synergy opportunities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report In December 2011, we released our inaugural Corporate Social Responsibility Report, intended to provide key economic, social, and environmental information to our stakeholders including customers, employees, consumers, shareholders, business partners, community members, and governmental and non-governmental organizations. The report covers all of our operations, excluding Opta Minerals, and is available on our website. Senior Management Appointments On October 12, 2011, we appointed Robert McKeracher as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) to replace former CFO Eric Davis, who resigned effective June 30, 2011. Mr. McKeracher joined us in 2007 and has served as Vice President of Financial Reporting since 2008. Also on October 12, 2011, we appointed John Ruelle as Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. Mr. Ruelle joined us in 2007 and since that time has served as CFO and Vice President of Finance & Administration for the Grains and Foods Group. SUNOPTA FOODS Introduction SunOpta Foods has been built through business acquisitions and significant internal growth. It is a vertically integrated natural, organic and specialty foods and natural health products business, with global operations, serving domestic and international markets. Below is a summary listing of acquisitions and significant facilities that we have acquired since the inception of SunOpta Foods. The summary below does not include any acquisitions related to divestitures that occurred in 2011 and 2010. SUNOPTA INC. 7 December 31, 2011 10-K Date of Acquisition Business Operations Acquired August 3, 1999 Sunrich Inc. (Grains and Foods Group) August 15, 2000 Certain assets of Hoffman Aseptic (Grains and Foods Group) September 18, 2000 Northern Food and Dairy, Inc. (Grains and Foods Group and Ingredients Group) March 14, 2001 First Light Foods Inc. (Grains and Foods Group) December 4, 2002 Opta Food Ingredients, Inc. (Ingredients Group) May 8, 2003 Kettle Valley Dried Fruit Ltd. (Fruit Group) November 1, 2003 SIGCO Sun Products, Inc. (Grains and Foods Group) December 1, 2003 Sonne Labs, Inc. (Grains and Foods Group) April 19, 2004 Purchase of the assets of General Mills Bakeries & Foodservice oat fiber processing facility (Ingredients Group) September 13, 2004 51% of the outstanding shares of Organic Ingredients, Inc. (The remaining 49% of the outstanding shares were acquired on April 5, 2005) (International Foods Group) June 2, 2005 Earthwise Processors, LLC (Grains and Foods Group) June 20, 2005 Cleugh’s Frozen Foods, Inc. (Fruit Group) July 13, 2005 Pacific Fruit Processors, Inc. (Fruit Group) September 21, 2006 Purity Life Health Products Limited (International Foods Group) November 7, 2006 Hess Food Group LLC (Fruit Group) November 9, 2006 Quest Brand of Vitamins (International Foods Group) August 7, 2007 Operating assets of a soymilk manufacturing facility in Heuvelton, New York (Grains and Foods Group) December 6, 2007 Neo-Nutritionals, Inc. (International Foods Group) April 2, 2008 The Organic Corporation (International Foods Group) November 8, 2010 Dahlgren & Company, Inc. (Grains and Foods Group) December 14, 2010 Assets of Edner of Nevada, Inc. (Fruit Group) August 5, 2011 Assets of Lorton's Fresh Squeezed Juices, Inc. (International Foods Group) SunOpta Foods’ long-term strategy is to leverage the platform that has been developed via implementation of continuous improvement principles, new product development and a focus on value-added components of the business, and to continue to pursue selective acquisitions that align with the value-added components of our vertically integrated business model. We believe that the natural, organic and specialty foods markets offer solid long-term growth opportunities as consumers focus on health and wellness and see diet as a key part of a healthy lifestyle. We also believe these markets remain fragmented with numerous players in North America and internationally. Specific strategies of SunOpta Foods in the last several years have included the following: Diversify the range of organic and non-genetically modified (“non-GMO”) grains-based and fruit-based products that we market, including via the acquisition of businesses that are vertically integrated from sourcing through ingredients and packaged products. Develop value-added natural and organic fiber and food ingredient solutions to meet the demands of food manufacturers wanting to improve the healthfulness of their products or expand into the natural and organic markets. Invest in value added processing capabilities which add further value to sourced raw materials. Expand our ability to source and supply natural and organic food products worldwide. Invest in healthy convenience and nutritious portable foods via both internal growth opportunities and acquisitions, driven by our belief that this segment will continue to be a strong area of growth for natural and organic food products. Expand the number of customer private label natural and organic programs including soy and alternative beverages, frozen fruit, fruit beverages and healthy convenience food categories. SUNOPTA INC. 8 December 31, 2011 10-K Develop and expand our operations outside of North America via acquisitions or by entering into partnerships and strategic alliances with food producers internationally. Grains and Foods Group Operations and Product offerings—Grains and Foods Group The Grains and Foods Group is headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It specializes in marketing organic, identity preserved (“IP”), and non-GMO grains, ingredients, packaged goods and processing services with a core focus on soybean, sunflower and corn products. The Grains and Foods Group works to ensure that it provides its customers with high quality organic, non-GMO and IP specialty grains and seeds by serving as a grower’s supplier of seed, purchaser of the grower’s specialty crops and distributor of IP and organic specialty products. We believe this “seed to table” approach allows the Grains and Foods Group to meet the specific needs of domestic and foreign food manufacturers and processors by providing products in the varieties and quantities needed in a timely fashion; transporting products to meet customers’ needs by being able to package in containers, truck, rail or barge; providing product information and technical support during the growing, processing, and marketing phases; and offering complete product service including grading, formulation, processing, quality control and packaging. The Grains and Foods Group’s products include: 1) A wide variety of IP, non-GMO and organic seeds and whole grains including soy, corn and sunflower for food applications offering premium varieties with superior food quality. The Group's vertically integrated model results in control at every stage of production, from seed selection and growing through storage, processing and transportation. 2) Organic, non-GMO and IP grain-based ingredients, including: Raw material sourcing and processing of soy based ingredients in liquid, spray-dried and roasted formats. Grain-based ingredients which utilize non-GMO and organic soy, corn, sunflower and rice; specialty organic functional ingredients, including maltodextrins, tack blends, fiber products; flavor enhancing products, including snack coatings, cheese powders and flavor systems; an innovative line of organic dairy ingredients; and organic soy and sunflower oils. 3) A variety of packaged food products for retail and foodservice use, including: A wide variety of private label packaged products for retailers and consumer foods companies, including aseptic and refrigerated soy, rice, almond, sunflower and other alternate beverages; aseptic broths; frozen edamame and vegetable blends; and roasted grains based snacks. Branded food products under the Sunrich Naturals brand, including: Alternative beverages – a variety of soy, rice, almond and sunflower based beverages for retail and foodservice. Frozen vegetables – a variety of frozen edamame and vegetable blends for health food stores, foodservice operators and retail outlets. Roasted grains-based snacks – specializing in providing healthy, natural and organic snacks to schools, retailers and healthcare facilities throughout North America. Products include in- shell sunflower and sunflower kernels, roasted corn and soy snacks. 4) A full range of bulk grain-based animal feed and pet food products. The premium feed products originate from select organic and non-GMO soy, corn, sunflower and other grains. The Grains and Foods Group also engages in processing and contract manufacturing services and offers a comprehensive range of services including basic grain cleaning, ingredient processing, custom roasting, and retail-ready packaging. With processing facilities throughout the U.S. plus a number of storage and office facilities, it can handle a range of order sizes, including barge lots, rail cars, bags, pallets, and retail packages. The Grains and Food Group services include: SUNOPTA INC. 9 December 31, 2011 10-K Grain conditioning services for soy, corn and sunflower. The Grains and Foods Group’s advanced equipment and technology for scalping and foreign matter removal is engineered to meet U.S. Department of Agriculture ("USDA") Grain Standards for premium food grade seed and grain conditioning. Grain milling for corn, oat and grain processing, with various granulations and batch sizing. Ingredient processing expertise and equipment needed for extraction, separation and concentration of a wide variety of grains-based and dairy ingredients. Liquid packaging through its aseptic packaging facilities, specializing in Tetra Pak equipment in a variety of pack sizes and offering a variety of opening types and extended shelf life ("ESL") options. The Grains and Foods group also partners with third party fillers to provide extended shelf life ESL refrigerated packaging formats to its customers. Grains roasting and packaging through extensive facilities offering a wide range of consumer and bulk packaging. Competition—Grains and Foods Group The Grains and Foods Group competes with large grain suppliers for customers and competes with other companies active on the international commercial grain procurement market for supply. The Grains and Foods Group’s organic specialty grains compete in the smaller niche U.S. commercial organic grains market. Key to competing in these markets is access to transportation, supply and relationships with producers. The Grains and Foods Group’s aseptic and roasted packaged products facilities compete with a number of other regional manufacturers and ingredient offerings compete with a range of suppliers from small local companies through large multi-nationals. Distribution, Marketing, and Sales—Grains and Foods Group The Grains and Foods Group has well established sales and marketing capabilities. As a leading provider of non-GMO and organic soy, corn, sunflower and grain-based food ingredients, it offers a comprehensive range of ingredients and services to the food industry. Distribution channels can vary greatly by product category, but the Grains and Foods Group enjoys a diverse ‘to market’ strategy in each product category. The Grains and Foods Group’s organic, non-GMO and IP ingredients are sold to manufacturers worldwide. For specialty whole grain raw materials, approximately 50% of the customer base is international. Food ingredients are sold principally to customers in North America that range from major multi-nationals to smaller specialty innovative organic food makers, but are expanding geographically as the Group opens new international markets. The consumer goods distribution channels include private label and store brands, food service and also SunOpta-controlled brands. This wide array of sales and distribution avenues is intended to allow the Grains and Foods Group to maximize sales and margin while mitigating the risk of concentrating business in a single segment of the market. Suppliers—Grains and Foods Group The Grains and Foods Group has an extensive established IP, organic soy and corn grower network with approximately 2,500 producers, with many relationships existing for over 25 years, and relationships with approximately 1,000 sunflower farmers in the Midwest and southern U.S. Because weather conditions and other factors can limit the availability of certain grains in North America, our Grains and Foods Group is focused on expanding production and sourcing capabilities to other parts of the world in hand with the International Foods Group to ensure supply in years when local production is below normal levels. By diversifying supply, it also has the ability to divert available product based on market demand and customer requirements in order to maximize return. SUNOPTA INC. 10 December 31, 2011 10-K Ingredients Group Operations and Product Offerings—Ingredients Group The Ingredients Group is headquartered in Chelmsford, Massachusetts and operates from five processing facilities throughout the U.S. It transforms both internally and externally sourced raw materials into value-added food ingredient solutions with a core focus on oat and soy fiber. The Ingredients Group specializes in the technical processing of specialty food ingredients with a focus on non-GMO, natural, functional and organic offerings. It works closely with customers to identify product formulation, cost and productivity issues, and develops solutions to these problems based on proprietary, value-added, highly functional food ingredients that use the Ingredients Group’s technical knowledge and manufacturing base. The Ingredients Group is an innovator in the value-added food ingredients market with a technical selling and product applications focus. Based on our internal estimates, the Ingredients Group is the world’s largest supplier of oat fiber to the food industry, one of the largest producers of soy fiber in the U.S. and the largest producer of organic soy fiber in the U.S. The Ingredients Group markets the Canadian Harvest ® Oat Fiber, SunOpta® Soy Fibers, and SunOpta® Pea Fiber brands of insoluble organic and conventional fiber products, Barley Balance™ soluble fiber, MultiFiber™ blends, value-added starch-based texturizers, and a number of custom processed ingredients. The Ingredients Group continues to diversify its unique portfolio of products. Products are organized under three main technology platforms: 1) Fibers and Brans, including Canadian Harvest Oat Fibers and Stabilized Bran products as well as SunOpta Soy and Pea Fibers. Canadian Harvest Oat Fibers and SunOpta Soy and Pea Fibers are a family of insoluble fiber products derived from oat, soy and pea hulls. They are used commercially to increase the fiber content of cereals, breads, cookies and crackers, to increase yield and enhance texture in ground and processed meat products, and to add strength and reduce breakage in products such as taco shells and ice cream cones. The Ingredients Group also provides highly functional fiber blends for specific applications under the MultiFiber™ brand name. It also offers Canadian Harvest Stabilized Brans derived from oat, wheat and corn, as well as wheat germ. The Stabilized Brans are heat-treated to extend shelf life and ground to meet customer needs for appropriate particle size. One of our unique soy fibers is a protein and fiber rich by-product of soy concentrate manufacturing. This fiber is used to enrich protein and fiber in a variety of foods. 2) SunOpta Specialty Starch products include OptaGrade® and OptaMist®. OptaGrade is a natural, starch-based texturizing agent that is used commercially in a variety of dairy products including natural, imitation, and processed cheeses, sour cream, cream cheese, cottage cheese and yogurt. OptaMist is also a starch-based texturizing agent that improves the taste, texture and appearance of dairy products, yogurt, cheese products, and salad dressings. 3) Custom ingredients and contract manufacturing services. The Ingredients Group produces a number of unique functional food ingredients, and offer services to customers on a contract basis utilizing proprietary technologies. We believe the Ingredients Group is well positioned to capitalize on the rapid growth of the health conscious natural and organic food markets, with its wide range of fiber, brans and starch-based products. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends choosing foods that provide dietary fiber as fiber consumption is still below recommended levels in the U.S. The Canadian Harvest line of oat fibers and stabilized brans and SunOpta Soy and Pea Fibers and fiber blends are used in numerous products such as fiber-enriched breads and other baked goods, breakfast cereals and snack bars. These products can be used to increase total dietary fiber content of foods while minimizing negative effects on taste, texture and appearance. The Ingredients Group’s insoluble oat, soy and pea fibers enhance overall gastrointestinal health. Oat and soy fibers have become primary ingredients in breads, pastries, muffins, tacos and tortillas as food companies reformulate their products to include more fiber. Recent innovations have expanded applications of fiber into dairy and meat products. Stabilized oat brans can be used as a source of soluble fiber (beta-glucan) which is beneficial to cardiovascular health. Our food ingredients are used by approximately 300 customers worldwide, including some of the largest U.S. consumer packaged food companies and quick service restaurant chains. The Ingredients Group’s product offering is sold internationally via approximately 25 distributors around the world. Many of our starch-based texturizers were originally developed for and are used in reduced-fat versions of a variety of dairy products such as low-fat or fat-free cottage cheese, sour cream, cream cheese, and processed cheeses. A recent product line extension has been successful in yogurt where a natural and clean label is desired. SUNOPTA INC. 11 December 31, 2011 10-K In addition to helping food manufacturers improve the healthfulness of their food products, the ingredients can be used to improve the overall quality of food products, reduce formulation costs, and meet specific processing requirements. We believe that all of our products are Generally Regarded As Safe (“GRAS”) under current U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") regulations (see “Regulation – SunOpta Foods”, below). The Ingredients Group markets a portfolio of functional fibers, including organic and conventional pea fiber via a distribution agreement with Best Cooking Pulses of Portage la Prairie, Manitoba. The production of pea fiber is highly sustainable and this ingredient is non-allergenic, non-GMO, and gluten-free. It is approved by Health Canada as a novel fiber for inclusion in bakery and meat products. The Ingredients Group also represents Polycell Technologies to market and sell Barley Balance™ beta-glucan concentrate. Barley Balance™ is the most concentrated source of barley beta-glucan soluble fiber produced by a natural and sustainable process. Barley Balance™ contains a minimum of 25% beta-glucan, a cholesterol lowering ingredient, and over 35% dietary fiber adding excellent nutritional benefits and functional performance to food and beverage products. Internally developed, MultiFiber™ products are highly functional blends of fibers that meet the needs of customers who are looking for a cost effective, easy-to-source fiber for enrichment while meeting specific textural goals. All MultiFiber™ products deliver a concentrated source of dietary fiber with a smooth texture and bland flavor. These innovative ingredients provide value for food and beverage manufacturers who are looking for ratios of soluble and insoluble fibers similar to what occurs naturally in foods. Competition—Ingredients Group Food ingredients are considered unique niche items usually developed or processed for specific customers or industry segments. The Ingredients Group competes with other product developers and specialty processors for the specialty ingredient business. The food ingredients industry is very competitive. Competitors include major companies with food ingredient divisions, other food ingredient and sourcing companies, other insoluble and soluble fiber processors and consumer food companies that also engage in the development and sale of food ingredients. Many of these competitors have financial and technical resources as well as production and marketing capabilities that are greater than ours. Distribution, Marketing, and Sales—Ingredients Group Sales and marketing is done through a technically oriented customer account team. We believe that the most effective way to solve each customer’s problem is to gain a thorough understanding of the customer at all levels, build solid working relationships throughout the customer’s organization, be knowledgeable of the market segment in which the customer competes, and have a detailed technical understanding of the customer’s needs as well as its preferred solution. We take a multidisciplinary approach to achieve this level of customer understanding and service. Members of the Ingredient Group’s direct sales force are teamed up with the appropriate technical personnel to work as “consultants” in defining and developing a range of potential solutions to our customer’s formulation and product development needs. Suppliers—Ingredients Group The Ingredients Group’s raw materials and packaging are sourced from approximately 65 suppliers with availability subject to world market conditions. There are a number of alternative sources of supply for most raw materials. Oat and soy hulls are primarily sourced from major food companies or their brokers and we believe there is adequate supply to meet current production requirements. Supply shortfalls would have an effect on availability and price and would be reflected in finished product pricing for the Ingredients Group. Certain other raw materials are supplied by processing customers and are not sourced directly from suppliers within SunOpta Foods. Fruit Group Operations and Product Offerings—Fruit Group The Fruit Group is headquartered in Cerritos, California and focuses on providing natural and organic fruit and vegetable-based products to the private label retail, food service, and industrial markets. SUNOPTA INC. 12 December 31, 2011 10-K We estimate that the Fruit Group is the largest supplier of organic individually quick-frozen fruit to the private label retail market in the U.S., and the largest supplier of natural and organic private label fruit snacks in the U.S., providing its customers with a wide range of products including bulk raw materials, value-added ingredients and retail solutions. It services over 500 customers, including food manufacturers, food service distributors, quick-service and casual dining restaurants and retail companies located principally in North America and Asia. The Fruit Group has undergone a series of rationalization and divestiture measures in an effort to address profitability processes, especially in the Group's Frozen Foods division. The business has adjusted to profitability pressures through the rationalization of operations, product mix and go-to-market strategies which have provided increased processing flexibility and a reduced cost base along with the implementation of internal cost improvement initiatives. The Fruit Group comprises the following three divisions: 1) The Frozen Foods division operates a facility with processing and packaging capabilities in Buena Park, California, which processes strawberries, peaches, mangos and other fruits and vegetables, and packs natural and organic frozen fruits and vegetables for the private label retail, food service, and industrial ingredient markets. It sources fruits, berries, and vegetables from various growing regions throughout the U.S., Mexico and other fruit growing regions around the world. Its poly-bag packaging operation provides retail customers with a wide range of private label natural and organic frozen fruits and vegetables, including strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, blackberries, peaches, mangos, tropical fruit, peppers and many other items. 2) The Fruit Ingredient Division (Pacific Fruit Processors), located in South Gate, California produces a range of value- added fruit ingredients in aseptic and conventional formats for sale to food manufacturers, quick service and casual dining restaurants and food service operations. Raw materials consist primarily of strawberries, peaches, pineapples, mangos, honeydew melons, cantaloupes, and other fruits. 3) The Healthy Snacks division operates processing facilities in Omak, Washington and Carson City, Nevada, producing natural and organic fruit snacks and nutritional bars. In December 2010, the Group acquired the assets of Edner, a producer of a wide range of nutritious portable foods such as nutrition bars. The primary raw material, apple, is sourced from local growers and internationally from the International Foods Group. Production capabilities include a variety of fruit-based bar, twist, rope and bite size shapes, as well as the ability to add a variety of ingredients including fiber, plus a range of baked and extruded nutrition bars using a wide variety of ingredients including grains, sweeteners and other ingredients. The Healthy Snacks division has internal research and development capabilities to introduce innovative products to the marketplace. Competition—Fruit Group The Fruit Group faces competition when securing the raw materials required to meet its needs; however, due to the location of its processing facilities, it is able to source raw materials from a number of growing regions and suppliers. It also sources frozen fruits and vegetables from a number of domestic and worldwide growers, processors and traders, including the International Foods Group. The Frozen Food division competes with processors primarily in California and Mexico and frozen fruit imports from Mexico, South America, Europe and Asia. The competitive landscape includes companies with financial resources larger than ours. In many cases, Mexican, South American, European and Asian competitors are able to achieve greater cost efficiencies due to lower relative costs of living and costs of supply in these regions. The Fruit Ingredient division competes with regional and national food manufacturers, and faces research and development competition from those same companies. A number of these competitors have production capabilities and financial resources that are greater than ours. The Healthy Snacks division has a smaller number of competitors, some of whom have production and technical capabilities and financial resources greater than ours. These competitors include independent fruit snack manufacturers, fruit snack divisions of larger food manufacturers and nutrition bar manufacturers. Distribution, Marketing and Sales—Fruit Group The Frozen Fruit division supplies frozen fruit and vegetable products to the private label retail, food service and industrial markets, including food manufacturers and quick service and casual dining restaurants. SUNOPTA INC. 13 December 31, 2011 10-K The Fruit Ingredient division supplies natural and organic value-added fruit ingredients to the dairy, food service and beverage industries. It offers fruit bases and preps for customers seeking high-quality, custom formulations to meet their special flavor and texture profiles. Applications include fruit for yogurts, ice creams, cheeses, smoothies, shakes, frozen desserts, bakery fillings, health bars, various beverages, dressings, marinades, dips and sauces. The fruit ingredient operations’ research and development team is integral to its reputable product quality and customer service. Manufacturing capabilities include aseptic and conventional processing and packaging. The Healthy Snacks division focuses on supplying natural and organic fruit snacks and nutrition bars to branded food companies and the private label retail markets and intends to expand distribution globally due to the portable nature of these products. Suppliers—Fruit Group The Frozen Foods division sources frozen fruits, berries, and vegetables directly from a large number of suppliers throughout the U.S., Mexico and globally, or indirectly through the International Foods Group. The Fruit Ingredient division’s primary raw materials are sourced from processors and traders of frozen fruits and vegetables, including the International Foods Group and our own fruit processing operations, major sweetener producers, and a number of regional and national flavor companies. Availability of supplies is subject to world market conditions, including quantity and quality of supply. The Healthy Snacks division’s raw material suppliers include growers and traders of apples and apple concentrates, flavor companies, processors and traders of fruit and grain products including the International Foods Group and a number of regional and national suppliers of a diverse range of raw materials. This division is subject to the availability of fruit and grains supply which is subject to conditions which may be beyond our control. International Foods Group Operations and Product Offerings—International Foods Group The International Foods Group operations are centered in Santa Cruz, California, Amsterdam, the Netherlands and Acton, Ontario. It comprises SunOpta Food Solutions, The Organic Corporation and Purity Life Health Products. SunOpta Food Solutions utilizes its extensive sourcing and product development expertise to produce a range of product solutions for the private label retail and food service markets. The Organic Corporation operates a diverse global sourcing and supply operation and operates a business in Dalian, China that supplies food grade organic soybeans, feed, organic sunflower kernels and other grains and distributes certain organic foods products, plus has sourcing and processing operations in Ethiopia for organic coffee and organic sesame seeds. The group’s natural health products operation, Purity Life Health Products, maintains processing and packaging facilities in Brantford, Ontario and Rockwood, Ontario and warehousing operations in Acton, Ontario, and Vancouver, British Columbia. The International Foods Group sources raw material ingredients from approximately 60 countries around the world, and, in our estimation, is the largest supplier of a wide range of organic commodities to the food industry in the European, North American and Asian markets. The International Foods Group provides organic food solutions to major global food manufacturers and distributors, and major U.S. supermarket chains with a variety of industrial and private label retail products. It sources or processes organic fruit and vegetable-based ingredients, sweeteners, cocoa, coffee, grains, nuts, seeds and pulses and other organic food products from virtually every continent and in both hemispheres to ensure quality of supply, minimize crop risk and provide contra-seasonal solutions to our customers. In many cases, the International Foods Group will enter into exclusive arrangements with growers and/or processors of key strategic commodities to control the reliability of its supply chain. Utilizing a number of strategic and/or exclusive co-pack relationships, company-operated re-sealable pouch and beverage processing and filling operations, and an experienced research and development team, the International Foods Group is able to provide its retail customers, distributors and food service operators with organic private label turn-key solutions in a variety of product categories, including juices, frozen fruits and vegetables, specialty beverages, vitamin waters, electrolyte waters, energy drinks, soups and tomato products. SUNOPTA INC. 14 December 31, 2011 10-K The Canadian-based natural health products division distributes approximately 5,000 SKUs of natural vitamins, supplements and health and beauty aids, many of which are formulated, processed and packaged within its vertically integrated manufacturing operations and sold under company-owned brands including Herbon™, Vivitas™, Nature’s Harmony™, Rx Balance™ and Quest™. Competition—International Foods Group The organic food industry is very competitive due primarily to the limited worldwide supply of organic raw materials. Our competitors in the supply of industrial organic ingredients include domestic and worldwide brokers, traders and food processors. In the private label retail market, competitors include major food manufacturing companies, some of which have production and technical capabilities more extensive than ours. Our natural health products division competes against much larger conventional distributors; however, we believe that we are Canada’s largest distributor of natural health products. We also compete with national and regional distributors. Distribution, Marketing and Sales—International Foods Group Sales and marketing is conducted through technically oriented sales teams strategically located close to specific geographic sourcing and/or sales regions. The International Foods Group maintains one of the largest global sourcing and supply networks in the world, working closely to manage global organic supply and link these supplies with diverse customer needs and also provides procurement support for other SunOpta operations. Suppliers—International Foods Group The International Foods Group’s raw material suppliers include growers, processors and traders of organic fruit and vegetable-based ingredients, sweeteners and other food products. Raw materials are sourced from growing regions worldwide. Organic food suppliers are required to meet stringent organic certification requirements equivalent to the USDA National Organic Program, European Union ("EU") standards or others. Our natural health products division sources product from approximately 175 suppliers, primarily in North America. Regulation—SunOpta Foods SunOpta Foods is affected by a wide range of governmental regulations and policies in various countries and regions where we operate, including the U.S., Canada, the Netherlands, throughout the rest of the EU, China and Ethiopia. These laws, regulations and policies are implemented, as applicable in each jurisdiction, on the national, federal, state, provincial and local levels. For example, SunOpta Foods is affected by laws and regulations related to: seed, fertilizer and pesticides; the purchasing, harvesting, transportation and warehousing of grain and other products; the processing, packaging and sale of food, including wholesale operations; and product labelling and marketing, food safety and food defense. SunOpta Foods is also affected by government-sponsored price supports, acreage set aside programs and a number of environmental regulations. U.S. Regulations USDA National Organic Program and Similar Regulations SunOpta Foods is involved in the sourcing, manufacturing, supplying, processing, marketing, selling and distribution of organic seed and food products and, as such, is subject to certain organic quality assurance standards. In 1990, Congress passed the Organic Foods Production Act mandating that the USDA develop national standards for organically produced agricultural products to assure consumers that those products marketed as organic meet consistent, uniform standards. The Act established the National Organic Program, a marketing program housed within the Agricultural Marketing Service of the USDA. In December 2000, after considering recommendations from the National Organic Standards Board as well as private, state, and foreign organic certification programs, USDA adopted regulations with respect to a national organic production, handling, labeling and certification program contained within 7 CFR 205. The regulations became fully effective in October 2002. These regulations, among other things, set forth the minimum standards producers must meet, and have reviewed by an accredited USDA-certifying agent, in order to label their products “100% organic”, “organic”, or “made with organic ingredients” and display the USDA organic seal. After becoming certified, organic operations must retain records concerning the production, harvesting, and handling of agricultural products that are to be sold as organic for a period of five years. Any organic operation found to be in violation of the USDA organic regulations is subject to enforcement actions, which can include financial penalties or suspension or revocation of their organic certificate. SUNOPTA INC. 15 December 31, 2011 10-K We currently manufacture and distribute a number of organic products that are covered by these regulations. Additionally, our organic products may be subject to various state regulations. Many states have adopted their own Organic Programs making the state agency responsible for enforcing USDA regulations for organic operations. However, State Organic Programs may also add more restrictive requirements due to specific environmental conditions or the necessity of production and handling practices in that State. Applicable regulatory agencies in the U.S. include the USDA, which monitors and ensures the integrity of both the organic process and agricultural grain business, and the FDA and Department of Homeland Security ("DHS"), which oversee the safety, security and efficacy of the food supply in the U.S. FDA GRAS Food ingredients can be classified into four groups including: food additives; color additives; prior sanctioned substances, and GRAS substances. In particular, a food additive is a substance, “the intended use of which results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, either in their becoming a component of food or otherwise affecting the characteristics of food”. Food additives require premarket approval under the 1958 Food Additive Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 (“FDCA”) as administered by FDA. However, in enacting those amendments, Congress recognized that many substances intentionally used in a manner whereby they are added to food would not require a formal premarket review by FDA to assure their safety, either because their safety had been established by a long history of use in food or by virtue of the nature of the substances, their customary or projected conditions of use, and the information generally available to scientists about the substances. Congress thus excluded from the definition of “food additive” substances that are generally recognized, among qualified experts, as having been adequately shown through scientific procedures to be safe under the conditions of their intended use, or GRAS. Companies may establish GRAS status through “self-affirmation” whereby the producer determines on its own that the ingredient is GRAS, normally with the assistance of a panel of qualified experts. The producer may also voluntarily submit a “GRAS Notification” to the FDA that includes the products description, conditions of use, and the basis for GRAS determination, among other information. The FDA response to a GRAS notice, typically issued within 180 days, is not an approval and the product may be marketed while the FDA is reviewing the information. A food ingredient is eligible for GRAS classification based on the “views of experts qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate the safety” of the product. The expert’s views are either based on scientific procedures or through experience based on common use of the material prior to 1958. If based on scientific procedures they must use the same quantity and quality of scientific evidence as would be required for the FDA to issue a premarket approval of the sale of a food additive. If a food ingredient is not entitled to GRAS status, premarket approval must be sought through the filing of a Food Additive Petition. Many of SunOpta Food’s products are being marketed pursuant to GRAS self-affirmation. We believe that a majority of products for which we have retained commercial rights are GRAS. However, such status cannot be determined until actual formulations and uses are finalized. Thereafter, we decide whether self-affirmation procedures and a GRAS notification will be appropriate. For those components that do not qualify for GRAS, we may be required to file a Food Additive Petition. In the event that a petition is required, we may elect to sell or license its rights to manufacture, market, and distribute the component to another party. Other U.S. Environmental, Food Safety and Food Labelling Regulations SunOpta Foods is also subject to various U.S., state and local environmental regulations. Some of the key environmental regulations in the U.S. include, but are not limited to, the following. Air Quality Regulations: Air quality is regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and certain city/state air pollution control groups. Emission reports are filed annually. Waste Treatment/Disposal Regulations: Solid waste is either disposed of by a third-party or, in some cases, we have a permit to haul and apply the sludge to land. Agreements exist with local city sewer districts to treat waste at specified levels of Biological Oxygen Demand (“BOD”), Total Suspended Solids (“TSS”) and other constituents. This can require weekly/monthly reporting as well as annual inspection. Sewer Regulations: We have agreements with the local city sewer districts to treat waste at specified limits of BOD and TSS. This requires weekly/monthly reporting as well as annual inspection. SUNOPTA INC. 16 December 31, 2011 10-K Hazardous Chemicals Regulations: Various reports are filed with local city/state emergency response agencies to identify potential hazardous chemicals being used in our facilities, including reports filed with the Department of Public Safety Emergency Response Commission in Minnesota and the Kentucky Emergency Response Commission. Storm Water: All facilities are inspected annually and must comply with an approved storm water plan to protect water supplies. Bioterrorism Compliance: We are currently subject to the four recognized and approved sections of the Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. SunOpta Foods is also subject to various other U.S., state and local food safety and food labeling regulations. Some of the key food safety and food labeling regulations in the U.S. include, but are not limited to, the following. Food Safety and Food Defense: In 2011, the Food Safety Modernization Act (“FSMA”) became effective, significantly expanding the authority of the FDA and imposing new regulation of food production, sales and imports. The goal of FSMA is to shift the focus of the current food safety scheme away from one that is reactive to one that is preventative. Although there remains much uncertainty concerning how FSMA will be implemented in light of budgetary concerns, the FDA has taken initial steps to assert its new authority. For instance, the FDA has begun using its authority to administratively detain food products that it has reason to believe are adulterated or misbranded for up to 30 days. In addition, the agency has issued interim final rules on criteria for administrative detention and on prior notice of imported food. Rulemaking concerning other FSMA provisions has not yet occurred. However, once the agency has established regulations, there will be significant changes including the implementation of prevention-based controls across the food supply; utilization of risk-based inspection approaches to improve accountability; the creation of new tools to ensure the safety of imported foods; and the use of mandatory recall authority for all food products. Food Labeling: We are subject to certain requirements for food labeling under the FDCA. Other state and local statutes and regulations may impose additional food labeling requirements. For instance, the California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (commonly referred to as “Proposition 65”) requires, with a few exceptions, that a specific warning appear on any consumer product sold in California that contains a substance, above certain levels, listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. This law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") Enforcement: Pursuant to the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, enacted in 1967, and FTC regulations, FTC retains jurisdiction over the marketing and labeling of food products. Specifically, the FTC requires that all “consumer commodities” be labeled to disclose net contents, identity of commodity, and name and place of business of the product's manufacturer, packer, or distributor in order to prevent consumer deception. For example, the FTC has recently released its revised "Green Guides" for the marketing of eco-friendly products. Canadian and Other Non-U.S. Regulations Countries other than the U.S. also regulate the sale of food ingredients or characterize food ingredients differently. Vitamin and minerals supplements in the U.S. are regulated pursuant to the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act, which regulates these products as foods. Regulations vary substantially from country to country, and we take appropriate steps to comply with such regulations. In Canada, the sale of food, natural health products ("NHPs"), drugs, and cosmetics are regulated under various federal and provincial laws, but are principally regulated federally under Canada’s Food and Drugs Act, Canada Agricultural Products Act, and the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (“CEPA”) and supporting regulations. Some of the key regulations in Canada include but are not limited to the following: Natural Health Products Regulations: NHPs are regulated by Health Canada. In 2004, Health Canada published a compliance policy and guide which had the practical effect of temporarily relaxing enforcement of the NHP Regulations to assist regulated parties to become compliant. This relaxation of enforcement was expected to end during 2011. However, the Unprocessed Product Licence Applications Regulations ("UPLAR") came into force in August 2011 and provides a legal framework for NHPs to obtain an exemption from the Natural Health Products Regulations while a product licence application is in process. UPLAR is set to be repealed in February 2013, by which time full compliance with the NHP Regulations will likely be required for all NHPs without any possibility of an exemption. It remains unclear as to when the current compliance approach will change, such that enforcement efforts by Health Canada are taken against vendors of NHPs, where there is neither an Exemption Number or Natural Product Number issued for the product. SUNOPTA INC. 17 December 31, 2011 10-K Food and Drug Regulations: Food and drugs are subject to specific regulatory requirements, which include without limitation, composition (including without limitation food additives, fortification, and food standards), packaging, labelling, advertising and marketing, and licensing requirements. Cosmetic Regulations: Cosmetics are subject to composition and labelling requirements. We must also file cosmetic notification forms, a post-marketing requirement for those cosmetics manufactured in Canada and a pre-market requirement for those products imported into Canada. Health Canada also publishes a "Hot List" of cosmetic ingredients it deems unsafe in cosmetics. Organic Products Regulations: As of June 30, 2009, the Organic Products Regulations require mandatory certification to the revised National Organic Standard for agricultural products to be represented as organic in international and inter- provincial trade, or that bear the federal organic agricultural product legend (or federal logo). But for certain exceptions and conditions, there is currently a U.S.-Canadian equivalence arrangement, whereby agricultural product produced and processed in conformity with the U.S. Organic Foods Production Act and the National Organic Program Regulations is deemed to have been produced and processed in accordance with the Organic Products Regulations. Waste Treatment/Disposal Regulations: There are specific regulations governing the recycling of solid waste material regulated by various provincial regulatory agencies. Many of the provinces operate stewardship programs for consumer product waste, as well as hazardous or special waste. These waste diversion programs require that the brand owner or a first importer of the designated materials to register, file reports on the materials it supplies for sale or use in the provincial market and remit fees under the stewardship program. Substance Regulations: Various regulations under CEPA regulate the importation and use of certain substances in Canada. For example, prior to the importation and use in products, the importer must ensure that all ingredients are found on the Domestic Substances List (“DSL”) maintained by Environment Canada. In the event that an ingredient is not found on the DSL, then subject to the amount of the substance imported into Canada and used in products sold in Canada, a filing may become necessary under the New Substances Notification Regulations. In addition, the Canadian Government has undertaken a review of ingredients used in commerce for regulated products we sell, with a view of determining whether the use of certain ingredients in these products represent a risk to the environment. This could eventually lead to the removal of certain ingredients in Canada. Canada Consumer Product Safety Act: The Canada Consumer Product Safety Act ("CCPSA") came into force on June 20, 2011. The CCPSA and its regulations will provide greater oversight and regulation of consumer products with respect to manufacturers, importers, and retailers. It will include, without limitation, the ability to require product recalls, mandatory incident reporting, document retention requirements, increased fines and penalties, and packaging and labeling requirements. While the CCPSA will not apply to food, drugs, or NHPs, it does apply to their packaging with respect to safety. It is possible that there will be similar amendments introduced to the Food and Drugs Act, to capture the essence of the regulatory oversight found in the CCPSA. We have no way of anticipating if and when that may occur. All of SunOpta Food’s Canadian manufacturing facilities and warehouses are registered with the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (“CFIA”), which monitors food processing and safety in Canada, and/or Health Canada. All of SunOpta Food’s Canadian import sites for drug and natural health products are licensed with Health Canada to import such products (Site Licence for natural health products and Establishment Licence for drugs). While not yet in effect, it appears that Health Canada is moving forward on the licensing of locations where foods are imported into Canada. All imported materials are shipped in compliance with the notification systems that alert the FDA, Health Canada, the CFIA and customs before the materials enter the country. We are confident that we have the necessary processes and controls in place that provide for an additional level of traceability of all raw materials from the supplier to the immediate subsequent recipient of the finished products. We also recognize and believe that we have the necessary programs to administer a product recall as may be required, and to monitor, assess and report adverse reactions to drug products and NHPs, and consumer products, the former under the Food and Drugs Act and the latter under the CCPSA. As a result of our acquisition of The Organic Corporation headquartered in the Netherlands, we are now subject to Dutch and European Commission (“EC”) regulations and policies. The Organic Corporation is involved in the sourcing, supplying, marketing, selling and distribution of organic food products and, as such, is subject to standards for production, labeling and inspection of organic products contained in EC Regulation 2092/91 (and its subsequent amendments). The Organic Corporation is certified by Skal, the inspection body for the production of organic products in the Netherlands. Products certified as organic by an EU recognized inspection body, such as Skal, can be marketed within the entire EU. SUNOPTA INC. 18 December 31, 2011 10-K The Organic Corporation is also affected by general food legislation both at EU and Dutch level relating to product safety and hygiene, among others. The Organic Corporation is Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point certified in the Netherlands and manages a fully computerized system that guarantees the traceability of each product. In addition, The Organic Corporation also considers and abides by EU and local legislation with regard to packaging and packaging waste. Research and Development—SunOpta Foods Research and development and new product innovation are key priorities of SunOpta Foods and initiatives are focused on continuous improvement of our existing product portfolios and production processes as well as the development of innovative new products. Innovation is a key pillar for us and a necessity in the natural and organic foods and natural health product categories. SunOpta Food’s extensive applications and research and development expertise is organized around five key product categories: Grains and grain-based ingredients through finished packaged products; Value-added ingredients focused on fiber based applications; Fruit, juices and fruit-based ingredients through finished packaged products; Value-added nutritious healthy snacks and portable foods; and Natural health products sold via certain owned brands within Purity Life. Our product development teams include highly trained and experienced food scientists and technologists that are dedicated to both the development of unique new product offerings plus addressing product development opportunities for our customers including new and custom formulations, innovations in packaging formats, and new production processes and applications. Applications and technical support provided by each of our operating groups to our customers include all aspects of product development from concept to commercial launch as well as ongoing manufacturing and processing support. Representatives from our operating groups also meet regularly to coordinate efforts to develop products which leverage the talents and product capabilities from across our organization. SunOpta Foods continues to develop new products to maximize the capabilities of our aseptic packaging facilities in Modesto, California and Alexandria, Minnesota, including the development of sunflower milk and other non-dairy based beverages that address the growing consumer demand for beverages that address allergy concerns and provide a unique nutritional portfolio. The expanding interest to incorporate soy and grain-based foods in consumers’ diets also creates numerous opportunities to develop ingredients that can be incorporated into food developers’ menu items. In addition, SunOpta Foods continues to expand its product portfolio via the addition of new fiber and ingredient offerings that can be used to improve the nutritional content and functionality of a variety of foods. Demand for food fibers has continued to grow and we believe that this is a long-term trend due to an increased focus on healthy foods. Many of our ingredient solutions can be used in products that aid in satiety to respond to the growing epidemic of obesity in North America and elsewhere. Many of our ingredients can also be used in products which qualify for a “whole grain” claim by augmenting the insoluble and soluble fiber content of foods. SunOpta Foods also continues to develop new fruit-based beverages, healthy fruit snacks, nutrition bars and fruit based resealable pouch products as well as innovative fruit ingredient systems for the dairy, food service and beverage industries. We are also looking at using fiber and other ingredients in these fruit products to improve their ability to address satiety and lower glycemic indices. Intellectual Property—SunOpta Foods The nature of a number of SunOpta Food’s products and processes requires that we create and maintain patents, trade secrets and trademarks. Our policy is to protect our technology, brands and trade names by, among other things, filing patent applications for technology relating to the development of our business in the U.S. and in selected foreign jurisdictions, and registering trademarks in the U.S., Canada and selected foreign jurisdictions where we sell products. SUNOPTA INC. 19 December 31, 2011 10-K SunOpta Food’s success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our products, trade names and technology under U.S. and international patent laws and other intellectual property laws. We believe that we own or have sufficient rights to use all of the proprietary technology, information and trademarks necessary to manufacture and market our products; however, there is always a risk that patent applications relating to our products or technologies will not result in patents being issued, or, if issued, will be later challenged by a third party, or that current or additional patents will not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how and confidentiality agreements to protect certain technologies and processes. Even with these steps taken, our outside partners and contract manufacturers could gain access to our proprietary technology and confidential information. All employees are required to adhere to internal policies which are intended to further protect our technologies, processes and trade secrets. Properties—SunOpta Foods SunOpta Foods operates 28 processing facilities in 10 U.S. states, as well as Canada, China and Ethiopia. SunOpta Foods also owns and leases a number of office and distribution locations, and leases and utilizes public warehouses to satisfy its storage needs. For more details see 