Risk Factors, included elsewhere in this report. SUNOPTA INC. 3 December 28, 2013 10-K PART I Item 1. Business INTRODUCTION SunOpta, a corporation organized under the laws of Canada in 1973, is a leading global company operating businesses focused on a healthy products portfolio that promotes sustainable well-being. With expertise in “field-to-table” integration, we specialize in the sourcing, processing and packaging of natural, organic and specialty food products. Our core natural and organic food operations focus on value-added grain-, fiber- and fruit-based product offerings, supported by a global sourcing and supply infrastructure. Using our integrated business models, we source organic and non-genetically modified (“non-GMO”) crops from growers and suppliers; we process these inputs into raw materials; we convert raw materials into food ingredients; and we process food ingredients into consumer-packaged products. As a general principle, we do not own or operate our own farms, retail stores, or extensively market our own consumer brands. Our assets, operations and employees are principally located in North America and Europe. We have two non-core holdings, an approximate 66% ownership position in Opta Minerals Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Opta Minerals”), a producer, distributor and recycler of industrial materials, and an approximate 19% ownership position in Mascoma Corporation (“Mascoma”), an innovative biofuels company, both on a non-dilutive basis. Business Objectives, Goals and Strategies Our vision is to be a recognized global leader in natural and organic food products that drive sustainable well-being. The objective of our business strategy is to maximize stakeholder value through 10% internal revenue growth and 20% earnings growth annually through: Creating a customer centric organization focused on strategically supplying our entire portfolio to retailers, food service and food manufacturers. Leveraging our global, integrated field-to-table supply chain capabilities and sustainability framework. Fostering passionate, accountable and talented employees who make effective decisions every day with a “One SunOpta” mindset. To reach our objective, we have established the following financial goals, among others: 70% of sales mix to comprise core ‘‘multi-touch” products, utilizing our field-to-table production expertise—for example, internally sourced organic soybeans are processed and converted into liquid concentrated soy base for blending and packaging as aseptic soymilk. 60% of strategic capital spending allocated to core products. 10% internal revenue growth annually. 8% operating income as a percentage of revenues in three years. 15% return on net assets in three years. In order to deliver on these goals we have developed the following core strategies: To become a pure play natural and organic foods company. This includes (i) focusing resources on our core products; (ii) divesting non-core assets to focus on key market categories and geographies; and (iii) identifying strategically-aligned acquisitions. To aggressively grow our value-added consumer packaged foods and ingredients portfolios. This includes (i) identifying key product categories, customers and competitors; (ii) enhancing innovation through shared research and development capabilities; and (iii) instituting key account management to better service customers. SUNOPTA INC. 4 December 28, 2013 10-K To leverage the integrated platform we have built. This includes (i) standardizing and sharing expertise across operations to lower costs per unit; (ii) optimizing our supply chain capabilities to achieve increased margins; and (iii) filling available production capacity to improve revenue and margin generated per employee. In summary, our intention is to divest non-core assets to become a pure-play company operating in the natural and organic foods industry; growing the business through multiple touches from raw materials through consumer-packaged products; and leveraging our current asset base to produce our products effectively to increase profit margins. Segment Information We divide our operations into two industry segments: SunOpta Foods, which accounted for approximately 88% of our fiscal 2013 consolidated revenues; and Opta Minerals, which represented approximately 12% of our fiscal 2013 consolidated revenues. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we implemented changes to our organizational structure to align and focus the operations of SunOpta Foods on three key “go-to-market” categories: raw material sourcing and supply; value-added ingredients; and consumer-packaged products. Consequently, we realigned the operating segments of SunOpta Foods to reflect the resulting changes in management reporting and accountability to our Chief Executive Officer. We believe this new operational structure better aligns with SunOpta Foods’ integrated field-to-table business model and product portfolio. The Opta Minerals operating segment remained unchanged. Effective with the realignment, we operate in the following four reportable segments: Global Sourcing and Supply aggregates the Company’s North American-based Raw Material Sourcing and Supply and European-based International Sourcing and Supply operating segments focused on the procurement and sale of specialty and organic grains and seeds, raw material ingredients, and organic commodities. Value Added Ingredients manufactures and supplies fiber, grain and fruit ingredients focusing on cereal, bakery, dairy, snack and food service market categories. Consumer Products manufactures and supplies branded and private label aseptic beverages; re-sealable pouch products; individually quick frozen (“IQF”) fruits and vegetables; premium juices; shelf stable juices and waters; and fruit- and grain-based snacks. Opta Minerals processes, distributes and recycles industrial minerals, silica-free abrasives, and specialty sands for use in the steel, foundry, loose abrasive cleaning, and municipal water filtration industries. In addition, Corporate Services provides a variety of management, financial, information technology, treasury and administration services to each of the operating segments from our head office in Brampton, Ontario, and information technology and shared services from our office in Edina, Minnesota. Financial information for each reportable segment describing revenues from external customers, a measure of profit or loss, and total assets for the last three fiscal years, as well as financial information about geographic areas for the last three fiscal years, is presented in note 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and has been restated to reflect the realigned operating segments of SunOpta Foods. Business Development We have invested in a number of internal growth projects to diversify our sources of supply, as well as to add capacity, improve profitability, and expand our value-added processing capabilities at a number of our facilities, as follows: In the second half of 2013, we expanded our aseptic processing and packaging operations in Modesto, California and Alexandria, Minnesota with the installation of an additional multi-serve filler (liter/quart) at each operation, as well as two single-serve (200/250ml) fillers at the Modesto operation. The addition of further processing and packaging capabilities was in response to continued growth in the non-dairy and alternative beverage categories that we currently serve, as well as adjacent categories such as organic dairy and nutritional beverages. The new fillers also provide unique capabilities and are expected to provide opportunities to bring new and innovative products in a new aseptic package format to the market, which we expect will further enhance the profitability of these operations. SUNOPTA INC. 5 December 28, 2013 10-K In the third quarter of 2013, we completed the construction of our cocoa processing facility in Middenmeer, the Netherlands, which will specialize in the processing of organic and fair trade certified cocoa beans into derivatives, such as organic cocoa powder, butter, and liquor. Operating as “Crown of Holland”, the facility provides needed capacity to accommodate our organic and specialty cocoa business that was previously processed by third parties. All cocoa beans processed at this facility are expected to be sourced internally through Global Sourcing and Supply. The facility will have an annual processing capacity of approximately 9,000 metric tons of raw cocoa when fully operational late in the first half of 2014. Also in the third quarter of 2013, we completed the commissioning of the third and fourth flexible re-sealable pouch filling lines at our facility located in Allentown, Pennsylvania. As the first two filling lines at the Allentown facility had reached capacity through committed long-term contracts, we installed these two additional lines to create additional capacity to meet demand. We entered the flexible, re-sealable pouch business in 2011 with the installation of two pouch filling lines at a third-party production facility in California. The flexible re-sealable pouch is applicable to a wide range of product categories including natural and organic fruit and vegetable snacks, apple sauces, tomato products, baby food, yogurts, toppings, and a variety of beverages. In December 2011, we completed the installation of a new aseptic processing line at our South Gate, California facility with a processing capacity of approximately 30 million pounds of value-added fruit ingredients. Applications for this processing line include fruit bases for yogurts, smoothies, fruit toppings and food service products. In addition, we completed the following selective acquisitions over the preceding three fiscal years: On December 31, 2012, we acquired a grains handling and processing facility located in Silistra, Bulgaria and operated as the Organic Land Corporation OOD (“OLC”), for cash consideration of $3,898. The facility is located near a protected and chemical free agricultural area, which produces organic products including sunflower, flax seed, corn, barley and soybeans. We had been sourcing non-GMO sunflower kernel from OLC since late 2011. This acquisition diversified our non-GMO and organic sunflower processing operations and should allow us to expand our capabilities into the other organic products grown in the region. OLC’s operations are included in Global Sourcing and Supply. In August 2011, we completed the acquisition of the assets and business of Lorton’s Fresh Squeezed Juices, Inc. (“Lorton’s”) for cash consideration of $2,500. Located in San Bernardino, California, Lorton’s is an integrated producer of a variety of citrus based products in both industrial and packaged formats. This acquisition expanded our integrated operations into the extracting, processing and packaging of citrus-based ingredients through consumer packaged products, and provided increased capacity for future growth and expansion. In 2013, we initiated a retrofit and expansion of the San Bernardino facility, with an increased focus on its filling and extraction capabilities, which is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2014. The San Bernardino operation is included in Consumer Products. We have also completed the following strategic divestitures of non-core assets in order to focus our platform on our core natural and organic foods business: In June 2012, we completed the sale of Purity Life Natural Health Products (“Purity”), our Canadian natural health products distribution business, for cash consideration of $13,443. The divestiture of Purity completed our exit from all non-core distribution businesses. Purity was formerly part of the former International Foods Group operating segment. In June 2011, we completed the sale of land and buildings in Irapuato, Mexico to parties related to Fruvemex Mexicali, S.A. de C.V. (“Fruvemex”). In addition, in April 2011, we sold our frozen fruit processing assets in Rosarito and Irapuato, Mexico to Fruvemex. As part of this transaction we entered into a strategic raw material supply agreement with Fruvemex. These assets were included in the former Fruit Group operating segment. Aggregate consideration related to these transactions amounted to $5,650. In May 2011, the former Fruit Group also completed the sale of frozen fruit processing equipment located in Salinas, California for cash consideration of $1,773. SUNOPTA INC. 6 December 28, 2013 10-K For more information regarding acquisitions and divestitures, see Notes 2 and 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Developments Senior Management Changes Effective January 31, 2014, Allan Routh retired from his management position as Senior Vice President, Business Development. Mr. Routh will continue to serve as a member of SunOpta’s Board of Directors and has entered into a three-year consulting agreement with the Company. Mr. Routh was formerly President of our former Grains and Foods Group and, prior to March 2003, was President and Chief Executive Officer of the SunRich Food Group, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In July 2013, Dan Turney was appointed Senior Vice President Operations. Mr. Turney brings over 25 years of food experience with large consumer-packaged goods companies including Campbell Soup Company. In June 2013, Michelle Coleman was appointed Chief Human Resources Officer. Ms. Coleman brings 25 years of progressive human resources and organizational development experience to SunOpta. Also in June 2013, Joe Davidson was appointed Senior Vice President and General Manager, Consumer Products. Mr. Davidson brings more than 20 years of experience in the food industry and was previously Vice President Sales for Tetra Pak North America. Finally in June 2013, Mike Thyken was appointed Chief Information Officer. Mr. Thyken brings nearly 30 years of business and information technology leadership to the role. Corporate Social Responsibility Report In September 2013, we released Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Report, which provided an update on progress towards our 2013 goals covering social, environmental and economic objectives and further reinforces SunOpta’s commitment to becoming an increasingly sustainable organization. This report covers all of our operations, excluding Opta Minerals, and is available on our website. In an effort to improve the timeliness of sustainability reporting and standardize the timing of the report in the future, we are transitioning to annual reporting in June instead of December of each year. As a result, our next Corporate Social Responsibility Report will be published in June 2014. The Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Report and the other information included on our website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K. SUNOPTA INC. 7 December 28, 2013 10-K SUNOPTA FOODS Introduction SunOpta Foods has been built through business acquisitions and significant internal growth. The following is a summary listing of acquisitions and significant facilities that we have acquired since the inception of SunOpta Foods. This summary does not include any acquisitions that were subsequently divested. Date of Acquisition Business Operations Acquired Reportable Segment August 3, 1999 Sunrich Inc. Global Sourcing and Supply August 15, 2000 Certain assets of Hoffman Aseptic Consumer Products September 18, 2000 Northern Food and Dairy, Inc. Consumer Products and Value Added Ingredients March 14, 2001 First Light Foods Inc. Consumer Products December 4, 2002 Opta Food Ingredients, Inc. Value Added Ingredients May 8, 2003 Kettle Valley Dried Fruit Ltd. Consumer Products November 1, 2003 SIGCO Sun Products, Inc. Global Sourcing and Supply December 1, 2003 Sonne Labs, Inc. Global Sourcing and Supply April 19, 2004 Purchase of the assets of General Mills Bakeries & Foodservice oat fiber processing facility Value Added Ingredients September 13, 2004 51% of the outstanding shares of Organic Ingredients, Inc. (The remaining 49% of the outstanding shares were acquired on April 5, 2005) Consumer Products June 2, 2005 Earthwise Processors, LLC Global Sourcing and Supply June 20, 2005 Cleugh’s Frozen Foods, Inc. Consumer Products July 13, 2005 Pacific Fruit Processors, Inc. Value Added Ingredients November 7, 2006 Hess Food Group LLC Consumer Products August 7, 2007 Operating assets of a soymilk manufacturing facility in Heuvelton, New York Consumer Products April 2, 2008 The Organic Corporation Global Sourcing and Supply November 8, 2010 Dahlgren & Company, Inc. Global Sourcing and Supply December 14, 2010 Assets of Edner of Nevada, Inc. Consumer Products August 5, 2011 Assets of Lorton’s Fresh Squeezed Juices, Inc. Consumer Products December 31, 2012 Organic Land Corporation OOD Global Sourcing and Supply SunOpta Foods’ long-term strategy is to leverage the platform that has been developed via implementation of continuous improvement principles, new product development and a focus on value-added components of the business, and to continue to pursue selective acquisitions that align with the value-added components of our integrated business models. We believe that the natural, organic and specialty foods markets offer solid long-term growth opportunities as consumers focus on health and wellness and see diet as a key part of a healthy lifestyle. We also believe these markets remain fragmented with numerous players in North America and internationally. Specific strategies of SunOpta Foods in the last several years have included the following: Invest in value-added processing assets, including expanded aseptic beverage and re-sealable pouch processing and packaging capabilities and capacities, which add further value to sourced raw materials and processed food ingredients. Invest in healthy convenience and nutritious portable (“on-the-go”) foods via both internal growth opportunities and acquisitions, driven by our belief that these categories will continue to be a strong area of growth for natural and organic food products. Expand the number of customer private label natural and organic programs including alternative beverages, frozen fruit, fruit beverages, re-sealable pouch and healthy convenience food categories. Develop value-added natural and organic fiber and food ingredient solutions to meet the demands of food manufacturers wanting to improve the healthfulness of their products or expand into the natural and organic markets. SUNOPTA INC. 8 December 28, 2013 10-K Diversify the range of organic and non-GMO grain-, fiber- and fruit-based products that we market, including via the acquisition of businesses that are integrated from sourcing through ingredients and packaged products. Expand our ability to source and supply natural and organic food products worldwide. Develop and expand our operations outside of North America via acquisitions or by entering into partnerships and strategic alliances with food producers internationally. Global Sourcing and Supply Operations and Product offerings—Global Sourcing and Supply Global Sourcing and Supply aggregates our North American and International raw material sourcing and supply operating segments focused on the procurement, processing and sale of specialty and organic grains, fruits and other commodities. Its operations are centered in Edina, Minnesota, Santa Cruz, California and Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Global Sourcing and Supply sources products from approximately 60 countries around the world, which include: Identity preserved (“IP”), non-GMO and organic seeds and grains including soy, corn and sunflower for food applications, with control maintained at every stage of production, from seed selection and growing through storage, processing and transportation. Grain-based animal feed and pet food products that originate from select organic and non-GMO soy, corn, sunflower and other grains. Organic fruit- and vegetable-based raw materials and ingredients, sweeteners, cocoa, coffees, ancient grains, nuts, seeds and pulses and other organic food products. Global Sourcing and Supply also engages in processing and contract manufacturing services that include: Grain conditioning services for soy, corn and sunflower. Grain milling for corn, oat and grain processing, with various granulations and batch sizing. Cocoa, coffee and sesame seed processing. Dry and oil roasting and packaging, including in-shell sunflower and sunflower kernels, corn and soy snacks. Competition—Global Sourcing and Supply Global Sourcing and Supply competes with large seed, grain and raw material suppliers for customers and competes with other companies active on the international commercial seed, grain and raw material procurement market for supply. Its non-GMO and organic specialty products compete in the smaller niche commercial non-GMO and organic seed, grain and raw material markets. Key to competing in these markets is access to transportation, supply and relationships with producers. The international organic food industry is very competitive due primarily to the limited worldwide supply of organic raw materials. Global Sourcing and Supply competes with worldwide brokers, traders and food processors for the limited supply of organic raw material ingredients. In many cases, it will enter into exclusive arrangements with growers and/or processors of key strategic commodities to control the reliability of its supply chain. Distribution, Marketing, and Sales—Global Sourcing and Supply As a leading provider of IP, non-GMO and organic seed, grain and other raw materials, Global Sourcing and Supply has well established sales and marketing capabilities, including technically oriented sales teams strategically located close to specific geographic sourcing and/or sales regions. Its specialty seeds, grains and other raw materials are sold to food manufacturers and producers worldwide, with approximately 50% of the customer base being international. In addition, in our estimation, it maintains one of the largest organic raw material ingredient sourcing and supply networks in the world, working closely to develop and manage global organic supply and link these supplies with diverse customer needs. It also provides procurement support to Value Added Ingredients and Consumer Products. SUNOPTA INC. 9 December 28, 2013 10-K Suppliers—Global Sourcing and Supply Global Sourcing and Supply has an extensive established IP, organic soy, corn and sunflower grower network in North America, with many relationships existing for over 25 years. It also has a network of growers in Europe, South America, Africa and Asia. Because weather conditions and other factors can limit the availability of raw materials in a specific geography, it continues to focus on expanding production and sourcing capabilities to other parts of the world to ensure supply in years when local production is below normal levels. By diversifying supply, it also has the ability to divert available product based on market demand and customer requirements in order to maximize return. Organic raw material ingredient suppliers include growers, processors and traders of non-GMO and organic fruit and vegetable based ingredients, sweeteners and other food products. The diversity of our supplier base helps to ensure continual supply by providing contra-seasonal solutions to mitigate crop and quality risks. Organic food suppliers are required to meet stringent organic certification requirements equivalent to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) National Organic Program, European Union (“EU”) standards, or others. Value Added Ingredients Operations and Product Offerings—Value Added Ingredients Value Added Ingredients is focused primarily on fiber-, grain- and fruit-based ingredients. It works closely with its customers to identify product formulation, cost, and productivity opportunities aimed at transforming raw materials into value-added food ingredient solutions. Value Added Ingredients’ products include: Fibers and brans, including Canadian Harvest® Oat Fiber, SunOpta® Soy Fiber, SunOpta® Rice Fiber, SunOpta® Cellulose Fiber and SunOpta® Pea Fiber brands of insoluble organic and conventional fiber products derived from oat, soy, pea and rice hulls, as well as two gluten-free cellulose fibers, which are highly concentrated sources of insoluble dietary fiber. It also offers Barley Balance™ soluble fiber, MultiFiber™ blends, value-added starch-based texturizers, and a number of custom processed ingredients, as well as Canadian Harvest® Stabilized Brans derived from oat, wheat, corn and wheat germ, which are heat-treated to extend shelf life and ground to meet customer needs for appropriate particle size. Specialty Starch products, including OptaGrade®, a natural, starch-based texturizing agent that is used commercially in a variety of dairy products including natural, imitation, and processed cheeses, sour cream, cream cheese, cottage cheese, and yogurt; and OptaMist®, a starch-based texturizing agent that improves the taste, texture and appearance of dairy products, yogurt, cheese products, and salad dressings. Grain-based ingredients in both liquid and dried formats utilizing non-GMO and organic soy, corn, sunflower and rice; specialty organic functional ingredients, including maltodextrins, tack blends, flavor enhancing products, including snack coatings, cheese powders and flavor systems; an innovative line of organic dairy ingredients; and organic soy and sunflower oils. Specialty fruit-based ingredients in aseptic and conventional formats, which are custom formulated to provide unique flavor and texture profiles for a wide range of specialized applications. Applications include fruit for yogurts, ice creams, cheeses, smoothies, shakes, frozen desserts, bakery fillings, health bars, various beverages, dressings, marinades, dips and sauces. Custom ingredients and contract manufacturing services. It produces a number of unique functional food ingredients, and offer services to customers on a contract basis utilizing proprietary technologies. Value Added Ingredients’ portfolio of insoluble fibers, stabilized brans and fiber blends are used in numerous products such as fiber-enriched breads and other baked goods, breakfast cereals and snack bars. These products can be used to increase total dietary fiber content of foods, including dairy and meat products, while minimizing negative effects on taste, texture and appearance. Stabilized oat brans can be used as a source of soluble fiber, which is beneficial to cardiovascular health. Value Added Ingredients has the processing expertise and equipment needed for extraction, separation and concentration of a wide variety of non-GMO and organic grain-based and dairy ingredients to meet the needs of food manufacturers. Its fruit-based applications are formulated to improve the nutritional content of its customers’ products through the use of natural and organic ingredients, including strawberries, blueberries, peaches, and other fruits. In addition to helping food manufacturers improve the healthfulness of their food products, its ingredient offerings can be used to improve the overall quality of food products, reduce formulation costs, and meet specific processing requirements. We believe that all of our ingredient products are Generally Regarded As Safe (“GRAS”) under current U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) regulations (see “Regulation – SunOpta Foods”, below). SUNOPTA INC. 10 December 28, 2013 10-K Competition—Value Added Ingredients Food ingredients are considered unique niche items usually developed or processed for specific customers or industry segments. Value Added Ingredients competes with other product developers and specialty processors for the specialty ingredient business. Competitors include major food companies with food ingredient divisions, other food ingredient and sourcing companies, and consumer food companies that also engage in the development and sale of food ingredients. Many of these competitors have financial and technical resources, as well as production and marketing capabilities that are greater than our own. Distribution, Marketing, and Sales—Value Added Ingredients Value Added Ingredients utilizes a technically-oriented customer account team. It works closely with customers to identify product formulation, cost and productivity opportunities, and develops solutions for customers based on proprietary, highly functional food ingredients that use its technical knowledge and manufacturing base. It takes a multidisciplinary approach to achieve this level of customer understanding and service. Members of its direct sales force are teamed up with the appropriate technical personnel to work as “consultants” in defining and developing a range of potential solutions to its customers’ formulation and product development needs. Its food ingredients are used by customers worldwide, including some of the largest U.S. consumer-packaged food companies. Its product offerings are sold through distributors around the world, including Global Sourcing and Supply. Suppliers—Value Added Ingredients The availability of food ingredient raw materials is subject to world market conditions; however, there are a number of alternative sources of supply for most raw materials. Oat and soy hulls are primarily sourced from major food companies or their brokers and we believe there is adequate supply to meet current production requirements. Supply shortfalls would have an effect on availability and price and would be reflected in finished product pricing. Certain other raw materials are supplied by processing customers. In addition, grain- and fruit-based ingredient raw materials are sourced through Global Sourcing and Supply’s established grower network. Fruit-based ingredient raw materials are also sourced from processors and traders of frozen fruits, major sweetener producers, and a number of regional and national flavor companies. Availability of supplies is subject to world market conditions, including quantity and quality of supply. Consumer Products Operations and Product Offerings—Consumer Products Consumer Products provides natural and organic consumer-packaged food products to major global food manufacturers, food service distributors and retailers with a variety of branded and private label products. Consumer Products’ packaged food products include: Aseptic beverages including soy, rice, almond, sunflower and other non-dairy and alternative beverages, as well as adjacent categories such as organic dairy and nutritional beverages, including milk, broths and teas. Specializing in aseptic product offerings, it produces a variety of pack sizes, including multi-serve and single-serve formats, all shelf stable with long shelf lives. Organic and conventional re-sealable pouch products, in a variety of pack sizes and shapes, containing a variety of products including baby food, soups, sauces, healthy fruit, vegetable and protein based snacks and beverages serving the adult nutrition category. SUNOPTA INC. 11 December 28, 2013 10-K Organic and conventional beverage products, including shelf stable and refrigerated juices; specialty beverages; vitamin and electrolyte waters; and energy drinks. It also partners with third-party fillers to provide extended shelf life refrigerated packaging formats to its customers. Nutritious snacks including natural and organic fruit-based snacks in bar, twist, rope and bite size shapes, with the ability to add a variety of ingredients including fiber; and baked and extruded nutrition (protein, energy and meal replacement) bars using a wide variety of ingredients including grains, proteins and other ingredients. IQF natural and organic frozen fruits and vegetables, including strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, peppers, broccoli and many other items. Competition—Consumer Products Consumer Products faces competition when securing grain, fruit, vegetable and dairy raw materials; however, due to the location of its processing facilities, it is able to source these raw materials from a number of growing regions and suppliers. In particular, it sources from a number of domestic and worldwide growers, processors and traders, including Global Sourcing and Supply. Consumer Products’ aseptic and refrigerated beverages, pouch and snack products compete with the offerings of major food manufacturing companies, as well as a number of other regional manufacturers. Its frozen fruit and vegetable products compete with processors primarily in California and Mexico, and frozen fruit imports from Mexico, South America, Europe and Asia. In many cases, Mexican, South American, European and Asian competitors are able to achieve greater cost efficiencies due to lower relative costs of living and costs of supply in these regions. Distribution, Marketing and Sales—Consumer Products Consumer Products supplies the private-label retail market, including large retailers and club stores, branded food companies, food manufacturers, food service distributors, quick service and casual dining restaurants located principally in North America. In addition, it markets branded food products under SunOpta-controlled brands, including Sunrich® Naturals, Pure Nature™ and Nature’s Finest™. Suppliers—Consumer Products Consumer Products’ raw materials are subject to the availability of grain, fruit, vegetable and dairy supply, which is based on conditions that are beyond our control. Grains are sourced through Global Sourcing and Supply’s established grower network. Frozen fruits, berries, and vegetables are sourced directly from a large number of suppliers throughout the U.S., Mexico and globally, or through Global Sourcing and Supply. Organic dairy ingredients are sourced from two independent distributors, with a third supplier expected to be added in the near-term. Regulation—SunOpta Foods SunOpta Foods is subject to a wide range of governmental regulations and policies in various countries and regions where we operate, including the U.S., Canada, the Netherlands, throughout the rest of the EU, China and Ethiopia. These laws, regulations and policies are implemented, as applicable in each jurisdiction, on the national, federal, state, provincial and local levels. For example, SunOpta Foods is affected by laws and regulations related to: seed, fertilizer and pesticides; the purchasing, harvesting, transportation and warehousing of grain and other products; the processing, packaging and sale of food, including wholesale operations; and product labelling and marketing, food safety and food defense. SunOpta Foods is also affected by government-sponsored price supports, acreage set aside programs and a number of environmental regulations. U.S. Regulations SunOpta Foods is required to comply with the regulations and policies promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and corresponding state agencies, as well as the USDA, the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyard Administration, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) and the Commodities and Futures Trading Commission. SUNOPTA INC. 12 December 28, 2013 10-K USDA National Organic Program and Similar Regulations SunOpta Foods is involved in the sourcing, manufacturing, supplying, processing, marketing, selling and distribution of organic seed and food products and, as such, is subject to certain organic quality assurance standards. In 1990, Congress passed the Organic Foods Production Act mandating that the USDA develop national standards for organically produced agricultural products to assure consumers that those products marketed as organic meet consistent, uniform standards. The Organic Foods Production Act established the National Organic Program, a marketing program housed within the Agricultural Marketing Service of the USDA. In December 2000, after considering recommendations from the National Organic Standards Board, as well as private, state, and foreign organic certification programs, USDA adopted regulations with respect to a national organic production, handling, labeling and certification program contained within 7 CFR 205. The regulations became fully effective in October 2002. These regulations, among other things, set forth the minimum standards producers must meet, and have reviewed by an accredited USDA-certifying agent, in order to label their products “100% organic”, “organic”, or “made with organic ingredients” and display the USDA organic seal. The regulations impose strict standards on the production of organic food products and limit the use of non-organic or synthetic materials in the production of organic foods. Generally, organic food products are produced using: agricultural management practices intended to promote and enhance ecosystem health; no genetically engineered seeds or crops, sewage sludge, long-lasting pesticides, herbicides or fungicides; and food processing practices intended to protect the integrity of the organic product and disallow irradiation, genetically modified organisms or synthetic preservatives. After becoming certified, organic operations must retain records concerning the production, harvesting, and handling of agricultural products that are to be sold as organic for a period of five years. Any organic operation found to be in violation of the USDA organic regulations is subject to enforcement actions, which can include financial penalties or suspension or revocation of their organic certificate. Additionally, our organic products may be subject to various state regulations. Many states have adopted their own organic programs making the state agency responsible for enforcing USDA regulations for organic operations. However, state organic programs may also add more restrictive requirements due to specific environmental conditions or the necessity of production and handling practices in the state. Applicable regulatory agencies in the U.S. include the USDA, which monitors and ensures the integrity of both the organic process and agricultural grain business, and the FDA and Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), which oversee the safety, security and efficacy of the food supply in the U.S. We currently manufacture and distribute a number of organic products that are subject to the standards set forth in the Organic Foods Production Act and the regulations adopted thereunder by the National Organic Standards Board. We believe that we are in material compliance with the organic regulations applicable to our business. Food-Related Regulations As a manufacturer and distributor of food products, SunOpta Foods is also subject to a number of federal, state and local food-related regulations, including, but not limited to, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 (the “FDCA”) and regulations promulgated thereunder by the FDA. This comprehensive regulatory framework governs the manufacture (including composition and ingredients), labeling, packaging and safety of food in the U.S. The FDA: regulates manufacturing practices for foods through its current good manufacturing practices regulations; specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, including many of the products we sell; and prescribes the format and content of certain information required to appear on food product labels. SUNOPTA INC. 13 December 28, 2013 10-K Some of the key food safety and food labeling regulations in the U.S. include, but are not limited to, the following: 1. Food Safety Regulations In 2011, the Food Safety Modernization Act (the “FSMA”) became effective, significantly expanding the authority of the FDA and imposing new regulation of food production, sales and imports. The goal of FSMA is to shift the focus of the current food safety scheme away from one that is reactive to one that is preventative. Although there remains uncertainty concerning how FSMA will be implemented in light of budgetary concerns, the FDA has taken initial steps to assert its new authority. For instance, the FDA has begun using its authority to administratively detain food products that it has reason to believe are adulterated or misbranded for up to 30 days. In addition, the agency has issued interim final rules on criteria for administrative detention and on prior notice of imported food. The FDA has proposed several new rules for public comment, including: (1) Standards for Produce Safety; (2) Current Good Manufacturing Practice and Hazard Analysis and Risk-Based Preventive Controls for Human Food; (3) Current Good Manufacturing Practice and Hazard Analysis and Risk-Based Preventive Controls for Food for Animals; (4) Foreign Supplier Verification Programs (FSVP) for Importers of Food for Humans and Animals; (5) Accreditation of Third-Party Auditors/Certification Bodies to Conduct Food Safety Audits and to Issue Certifications; (6) Focused Mitigation Strategies to Protect Food Against Intentional Adulteration; and (7) Sanitary Transportation of Human and Animal Food. Many of the FDA’s proposed rules are not expected to become final until sometime in 2015-16. Once finalized, we will need to develop regulatory compliance programs related to these new regulations. The proposed rules on preventive controls relating to human food for human consumption would apply to SunOpta Foods as we manufacture, process, pack and hold food for human consumption. The rule proposes a requirement that firms have written plans in place to identify potential hazards, put in place steps to address them, verify that the steps are working, and outline how to correct any problems that arise. The rule also proposes a requirement that each covered facility prepare and implement a written food safety plan, which would include the following: hazard analysis; risk based preventive controls; monitoring procedures; corrective actions; verification; and recordkeeping. Many of the FDA’s proposed rules are not expected to become final until sometime in 2015. If adopted, we will need to develop regulatory compliance programs related to these new regulations. In addition, we are subject to the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 (the “Bioterrorism Act”) and regulations issued thereunder. The Bioterrorism Act authorizes the FDA to take the regulatory action necessary to protect the nation’s food supply against the threat of intentional or accidental contamination. The major components of the Bioterrorism Act include registration of food facilities with the FDA; prior notice of virtually all imported food shipments under FDA authority; recordkeeping requirements for food facilities; FDA authority to administratively detain food; FDA authority to institute debarment of food importers for various violations related to food importation; and creation of a clear way to re-import previously refused foods if certain criteria are met. Lastly, we are subject to numerous other federal, state and local regulations involving such matters as the licensing and registration of manufacturing facilities, enforcement by government health agencies of standards for our products, inspection of our facilities and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of food products. 2. Food Labeling Regulations SunOpta Foods is subject to certain requirements relating to food labeling under the FDCA and corresponding FDA regulations as well as the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act enacted in 1967 and corresponding FTC regulations. Although the FTC, FDA, and USDA share jurisdiction over claims made by manufacturers of food products, the FDA retains primary jurisdiction over the labeling of food products whereas the FTC regulates advertising. The FDA and FTC require that all food products be labeled to disclose the net contents, the identity of commodity, nutrition information, and the name and place of business of the product’s manufacturer, packer, or distributor in order to prevent consumer deception. Both agencies also require that any claim on the product be truthful and not misleading. Other state and local statutes and regulations may impose additional food labeling requirements. For instance, the California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (commonly referred to as “Proposition 65”) requires, with a few exceptions, that a specific warning appear on any consumer product sold in California that contains a substance, above certain levels, listed by that state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. This law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products. SUNOPTA INC. 14 December 28, 2013 10-K FDA GRAS Regulations Food ingredients can be classified into four groups including: food additives; color additives; prior sanctioned substances, and GRAS substances. In particular, a food additive is a substance, “the intended use of which results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, either in their becoming a component of food or otherwise affecting the characteristics of food”. Food additives require premarket approval under the 1958 Food Additive Amendments to the FDCA as administered by FDA. However, in enacting those amendments, Congress recognized that many substances intentionally used in a manner whereby they are added to food would not require a formal premarket review by FDA to assure their safety, either because their safety had been established by a long history of use in food or by virtue of the nature of the substances, their customary or projected conditions of use, and the information generally available to scientists about the substances. Congress thus excluded from the definition of “food additive” substances that are generally recognized, among qualified experts, as having been adequately shown through scientific procedures to be safe under the conditions of their intended use, or GRAS. Companies may establish GRAS status through “self-affirmation” whereby the producer determines on its own that the ingredient is GRAS, normally with the assistance of a panel of qualified experts. The producer may also voluntarily submit a “GRAS Notification” to the FDA that includes the products description, conditions of use, and the basis for GRAS determination, among other information. The FDA response to a GRAS notice, typically issued within 180 days, is not an approval and the product may be marketed while the FDA is reviewing the information. A food ingredient is eligible for GRAS classification based on the “views of experts qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate the safety” of the product. The expert’s views are either based on scientific procedures or through experience based on common use of the material prior to 1958. If based on scientific procedures they must use the same quantity and quality of scientific evidence as would be required for the FDA to issue a premarket approval of the sale of a food additive. If a food ingredient is not entitled to GRAS status, premarket approval must be sought through the filing of a Food Additive Petition. Many of SunOpta Food’s products are being marketed pursuant to GRAS self-affirmation. We believe that a majority of products for which we have retained commercial rights are GRAS. However, such status cannot be determined until actual formulations and uses are finalized. Thereafter, we decide whether self-affirmation procedures and a GRAS notification will be appropriate. For those components that do not qualify for GRAS, we may be required to file a Food Additive Petition. In the event that a petition is required, we may elect to sell or license its rights to manufacture, market, and distribute the component to another party. Environmental Regulations SunOpta Foods is also subject to various U.S. federal, state and local environmental regulations. Some of the key environmental regulations in the U.S. include, but are not limited to, the following. Air quality regulations – air quality is regulated by the EPA and certain city/state air pollution control groups. Emission reports are filed annually. Waste treatment/disposal regulations – solid waste is either disposed of by a third-party or, in some cases, we have a permit to haul and apply the sludge to land. Agreements exist with local city sewer districts to treat waste at specified levels of Biological Oxygen Demand (“BOD”), Total Suspended Solids (“TSS”) and other constituents. This can require weekly/monthly reporting as well as annual inspection. Sewer regulations – we have agreements with the local city sewer districts to treat waste at specified limits of BOD and TSS. This requires weekly/monthly reporting as well as annual inspection. Hazardous chemicals regulations – Various reports are filed with local city/state emergency response agencies to identify potential hazardous chemicals being used in our facilities, including reports filed with the Department of Public Safety Emergency Response Commission in Minnesota and the Kentucky Emergency Response Commission. Storm water – all facilities are inspected annually and must comply with an approved storm water plan to protect water supplies. SUNOPTA INC. 15 December 28, 2013 10-K Employee Safety Regulations We are subject to certain safety regulations, including OHSA regulations. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing safety standards to protect our employees from accidents. We believe that we are in material compliance with all employee safety regulations applicable to our business. Canadian and Other Non-U.S. Regulations Outside of the U.S., regulations concerning the sale or characterization of food ingredients vary substantially from country to country, and we take appropriate steps to comply with such regulations. In Canada, the sale of food is regulated under various federal and provincial laws, principally the federal Food and Drugs Act (“FADA”), Canada Agricultural Products Act (“CAPA”), and the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (“CEPA”), along with their supporting regulations. Some of the key Canadian regulatory instruments include but are not limited to the following: Food and Drug Regulations (under the FADA) – food and drugs are subject to specific regulatory requirements, including composition (such as food additives, fortification, and food standards), packaging, labelling, advertising and marketing, and licensing requirements. Organic Products Regulations, 2009 (“OPR”) (under the CAPA) – as of June 30, 2009, the OPR require mandatory certification to the revised national organic standard for agricultural products that are to be represented as organic in international and inter-provincial trade, or that bear the federal organic agricultural product legend (or federal logo). Except for certain exceptions and conditions, a U.S.-Canada Organic Equivalence Arrangement is currently in place whereby agricultural products produced and processed in conformity with the U.S. Organic Foods Production Act and the Canadian OPR are deemed to have been produced and processed in accordance with the OPR and may be sold, labelled or represented in Canada as organic. Canada Consumer Product Safety Act (“CCPSA”) – the CCPSA provides oversight and regulation of consumer products with respect to manufacturers, importers, and retailers. It includes, without limitation, the ability to require product recalls, mandatory incident reporting, document retention requirements, increased fines and penalties, and packaging and labeling requirements. While the CCPSA does not apply to food, it does apply to its packaging with respect to safety. It is possible that there will be amendments introduced to the FADA, to capture the essence of the regulatory oversight found in the CCPSA. We have no way of anticipating if and when that may occur. We are subject to Dutch and European Commission (“EC”) regulations and policies. Our European subsidiary, TOC, is involved in the sourcing, supplying, marketing, selling and distribution of organic food products and, as such, is subject to standards for production, labeling and inspection of organic products contained in EC Regulation 2092/91 (and its subsequent amendments). TOC is certified by Skal, the inspection body for the production of organic products in the Netherlands. Products certified as organic by an EU-recognized inspection body, such as Skal, can be marketed within the entire EU. In addition, under the terms of an equivalency arrangement between the U.S. and the EU, organic operations certified to the USDA organic or EU organic standards may be labeled and sold as organic in both the U.S. and EU. TOC is also affected by general food legislation both at EU and Dutch level relating to product safety and hygiene, among others. TOC is Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point certified in the Netherlands and manages a fully computerized system that guarantees the traceability of each product. In addition, TOC also considers and abides by EU and local legislation with regard to packaging and packaging waste. TOC is also subject to the regulations and policies of the countries outside of the EU in which it operates, including China and Ethiopia. SUNOPTA INC. 16 December 28, 2013 10-K Research and Development—SunOpta Foods Research and development and new product and process innovation are key priorities of SunOpta Foods and initiatives are focused on continuous improvement of our existing product portfolios and production processes, as well as the development of innovative new products. Innovation is a key pillar for us and a necessity in the natural and organic foods categories. SunOpta Food’s extensive applications and research and development expertise is organized around the following product categories: Integrated consumer product applications focused on aseptic, pouch, various healthy snack options, frozen IQF, and refrigerated beverage formats; Value-added food ingredients focused on fiber-, grain- and fruit-based applications; and Raw material applications including grains, fruits, vegetables, sweeteners, and others for use in ingredients and consumer products. Our product development teams include highly trained and experienced food scientists and technologists that are dedicated to both the development of unique new product offerings plus addressing product development opportunities for our customers including new and custom formulations, innovations in packaging formats, and new production processes and applications. Applications and technical support provided to our customers include all aspects of product development from concept to commercial launch, as well as ongoing manufacturing and processing support. SunOpta Foods continues to develop new products to maximize the capabilities of our aseptic packaging facilities in Modesto, California and Alexandria, Minnesota, including the development of non-dairy based beverages that address the growing consumer demand for beverages that address allergy concerns and provide a unique nutritional portfolio, as well as organic dairy and nutritional beverages. The expanding interest to incorporate grain-based foods in consumers’ diets also creates numerous opportunities to develop ingredients that can be incorporated into food developers’ menu items. In addition, SunOpta Foods continues to expand its product portfolio via the addition of new fiber and ingredient offerings that can be used to improve the nutritional content and functionality of a variety of foods. Many of our ingredient solutions can be used in products that aid in satiety to respond to the growing epidemic of obesity in North America and elsewhere. Many of our ingredients can also be used in products which qualify for a “whole grain” claim by augmenting the insoluble and soluble fiber content of foods. SunOpta Foods also continues to develop new fruit-based beverages, fruit- and grain-based snacks, nutrition bars and fruit-based re-sealable pouch products, as well as innovative fruit ingredient systems for the dairy, food service and beverage industries. We are continually looking to develop new value-added products for our customers that leverage our global sourcing and supply capabilities. Intellectual Property—SunOpta Foods The nature of a number of SunOpta Food’s products and processes requires that we create and maintain patents, trade secrets and trademarks. Our policy is to protect our technology, brands and trade names by, among other things, filing patent applications for technology relating to the development of our business in the U.S. and in selected foreign jurisdictions, registering trademarks in the U.S., Canada and selected foreign jurisdictions where we sell products, and maintenance of confidentiality agreements with outside parties and employees. SunOpta Food’s success will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our products, trade names and technology under U.S. and international patent laws and other intellectual property laws. We believe that we own or have sufficient rights to use all of the proprietary technology, information and trademarks necessary to manufacture and market our products; however, there is always a risk that patent applications relating to our products or technologies will not result in patents being issued, or, if issued, will be later challenged by a third party, or that current or additional patents will not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how and confidentiality agreements to protect certain technologies and processes. Even with these steps taken, our outside partners and contract manufacturers could gain access to our proprietary technology and confidential information. All employees are required to adhere to internal policies which are intended to further protect our technologies, processes and trade secrets. SUNOPTA INC. 17 December 28, 2013 10-K Properties—SunOpta Foods As at December 28, 2013, SunOpta Foods operated 30 processing facilities in 11 U.S. states, as well as China, Ethiopia, Bulgaria and the Netherlands. SunOpta Foods also owns and leases a number of office and distribution locations in the U.S., Canada, the Netherlands, Ethiopia and China, and leases and utilizes public warehouses to satisfy its storage needs. For more details see 