ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this report. 7 Table of Contents Our operations are not profitable and may not become profitable in the future. We had net losses of $27,574,000, $9,466,000 and $9,244,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and losses from operations of $7,521,000, $801,000 and $4,029,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our ability to become profitable depends significantly upon factors over which we have limited or no control. Those factors include, among other things, the quantity and quality of our subsidiaries’ long term fuel supply, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, rates paid for energy sales, the continuing development of the green energy market and interest rates. While we are pursuing value enhancement alternatives, including accreditive acquisitions, there can be no assurance that we will become profitable. Our subsidiaries have substantial indebtedness and related interest expense and in connection with their existing indebtedness we have agreed to significant restrictions upon their operations, including their ability to use their cash. We have substantial debt that has been incurred to finance the acquisition and development of energy facilities. As of December 31, 2006, our total consolidated debt, exclusive of debt issuance costs which offset the debt for financial statement presentation purposes, was $266,341,000. Our interest expense in 2006 was $22,971,000. For the debt associated with the UK Transaction, the interest associated with a portion of the debt is not paid currently but added to the outstanding principal balance thereby increasing subsequent period’s interest expense. The actual quantity and quality of the landfill gas extracted by USEB from the various landfills may vary from that anticipated by management which could result in lower production and a subsequent reduction in revenues. The quantity and quality of the landfill gas extracted by USEB from the various landfills is predicated on variables over which the Company has no control, including the rate at which the landfill accepts trash, the type of trash the landfill accepts, the application of landfill cover by the landfill operator and other operating characteristics of the landfill. Changes in these variables can effect the quantity and quality of the landfill gas produced by the landfill, a decrease of which could result in a reduction of USEB’s production and revenues. We have rate risk in the replacement of electricity rates received within the Illinois Retail Rate Program. Ten of USEB’s Illinois projects were participating in the Illinois Retail Rate Program (the “Program”), which provided subsidies in excess of the utility’s avoided costs rates. This subsidy was in the form of a 10 year interest free loan. As part of USEB’s settlement with the ICC, USEB agreed to withdraw its ten Illinois projects from the Program effective May 31, 2007, which terminated each project’s eligibility to receive the subsidized rates. USEB must now sell its output from the Illinois projects at market rates which may not be equivalent to those provided under the Program. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company received 19%, 21% and 26%, respectively, of its revenues from the rates provided under the Program. A significant source of USEB’s revenues are generated from special tax credits provided for the sale of landfill gas to third parties and these credits expire on December 31, 2007. USEB benefits from Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 29”). Section 29 provides that owners of biogas facilities that collect and sell biogas as fuel are permitted to reduce their annual federal income tax liability with a tax credit based upon the volume of the biogas sold to unrelated third parties. USEB has sold interests in the Gascos producing these tax credits to financial investors and such sales have provided USEB with additional revenue. Part of the purchase price is contingent on gas production. If gas production were to fall, USEB’s revenues may decline. The tax credit is available for biogas produced at projects that had existing gas collection facilities that were placed in service before July 1, 1998. The tax credits are available for qualifying projects until December 31, 2007, except that projects which were in operation prior to 1993 qualified for the tax credits only through 2002. Upon the expiration of the Section 29 tax credits on December 31, 2007, USEB’s revenues may be reduced. Revenues related to the Section 29 tax credits were $914,000, $926,000, and $1,212,000 for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 8 Table of Contents Neither USEB, nor any of the Gascos, nor any Gasco partners have received a ruling from the IRS confirming that the biogas facilities of the Gascos meet the requirements of Section 29, that the sales of interests in the Gascos by USEB were structured in a way that would entitle the buyers to Section 29 credits, or that sales of methane from the Gascos to the Gencos or Transcos generate Section 29 credits. While a ruling is not required, as is the case with any Section 29 transaction in which a ruling is not obtained, the IRS may challenge the availability of Section 29 credits to any of the Gascos or to other partners. USEB has agreed to indemnify the financial investors that have purchased interests in the Gascos for certain losses suffered by such investors in the event that the Section 29 tax credits are denied in certain circumstances. Under Section 29, the amount of the tax credit generated from non-conventional fuel sources, such as landfill gas, shall be reduced or eliminated should the reference price of an equivalent barrel of energy (“EBE”) utilized to establish the value of the credit reach certain levels. Should the EBE reference price exceed the specified levels, the resultant decline in the tax credit value generated by the sale of landfill gas by USEB will reduce the amount of proceeds USEB receives related to the tax credits. For the year 2006, based on a reference price for oil of $59.28, the value of the 2006 section 29 tax credits were reduced by 33% due to this phase out provision. We may face substantial impediments to completing future acquisitions and development projects. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and acquire appropriate companies or energy projects, our ability to develop new energy projects, our ability to integrate the acquired and developed operations effectively and our ability to increase our market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify viable acquisition candidates or development projects, that any identified candidates or development projects will be acquired or developed, that acquired companies or power facilities and developed projects will be effectively integrated to realize expected efficiencies and economies of scale, or that any acquisitions or development projects will prove to be profitable or be without unforeseen liabilities. In the event that acquisition candidates or development projects are not identifiable or acquisitions or development projects are prohibitively costly, we may be forced to alter our future growth strategy. As we continue to pursue our acquisition and development strategy in the future, our stock price, financial condition and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. We may be unable to acquire or renew the numerous permits and approvals required to operate power facilities. The construction and operation of energy projects, both in the United States and the United Kingdom, require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies, as well as compliance with environmental laws and other regulations. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable regulations and that each of our projects has the requisite approvals, our projects require compliance with a varied and complex body of laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. There can be no assurance that new laws or amendments to existing laws which would have a materially adverse affect will not be adopted, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals for proposed projects or that completed facilities will comply with all applicable permit conditions, statutes and regulations. In addition, regulatory compliance for the construction of new facilities is a costly and time consuming process which may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain permits, and may create a significant risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. We are subject to commodity price risk. The price received for our energy output is subject to market fluctuations and our revenues, operating cash flows and remaining cash reserves are dependent upon the price of electricity and gas. Changes in the market price for energy could substantially reduce revenues, operating cash flows and could result in a reduction in the carrying value of our gas assets and goodwill. While the energy prices for the output from the UK Assets are hedged, establishing a minimum floor pricing for our output, the hedge expires in July 2009 and subsequent to the expiration of the hedge, UK sales will be subject to market fluctuations. 9 Table of Contents The actual natural gas reserve acquired in the UK Transaction may be below estimated quantities or quality and the actual costs associated with location and extraction of the gas may exceed current estimates. The actual quantities of natural gas reserves acquired in the UK Transaction and the costs associated with the location and extraction of the natural gas, while based upon professional, third-party engineering studies, may vary from estimates as they constitute future events which cannot be predicted with certainty. In the event the actual amounts of natural gas fall below estimated quantities or the cost associated with the exploration and extraction of the gas exceed estimated costs, the net cash flow derived from the UK operations may be adversely affected. A reduction in the actual amount or quality of gas available for the production of energy would have a negative effect on the Company’s revenues and could result in a reduction in the carrying value of our gas assets. We have risks associated with the exploration for gas. We have risks associated with gas exploration including the failure to locate adequate gas reserves, the investment in dry wells or wells that do not result in adequate output and cost overruns associated with the construction of the wells and the distribution system. In addition, we have safety and environmental risks associated with the exploration, development and construction process. US Energy is a holding company and has no operations or revenues. US Energy is a holding company. All of its operations are conducted through its subsidiaries. Its operating subsidiaries have substantial debt, and the terms of the loan agreements underlying such debt restrict the subsidiaries’ ability to declare dividends or otherwise transfer cash or assets to US Energy. In particular, USEB has agreed to a sharing of its net profits in connection with the Silver Point financing which will result in limitations on USEB’s ability to declare dividends to US Energy for a significant number of years following the amortization or prepayment of the Silver Point financing. If US Energy were able to sell a controlling interest in USEB by February 28, 2008 and prepay the Silver Point financing, the net profits interest will be cancelled and no sharing of net profits will be required, subject to an additional interest payment. Any sale of a controlling interest in USEB is subject to Silver Point’s consent. US Energy relies on a USEB management agreement with Silver Point and issuances of US Energy common stock to fund US Energy’s expenses. Due to certain contractual restrictions, there can be no assurance that US Energy will receive all, or any portion, of the management fee. If US Energy issues its common stock to raise funds, there can be no assurance that it will be at current market rates, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders. We may have insufficient funds available to complete the expansion plans for the UK Assets which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and value. The Company has significant reserves intended to fund the expansion plans for the UK Assets but those funds may not be adequate to complete the expansion as planned or for any modified expansion plans. If current funds are insufficient, the Company would have to obtain such funds through the execution of a refinancing or through the raising of additional equity. There can be no assurance that the Company could refinance or raise additional equity and, if so, whether it would be on acceptable terms. The failure to obtain such funds would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and value. US Energy has insufficient funds currently available to fund the required additional contributions pursuant to the UK financing agreements. US Energy does not have sufficient funds currently available to fund the required additional contributions pursuant to the UK financing agreements. US Energy intends to obtain these funds through a refinancing or through the raising of additional equity. There can be no assurance that US Energy could refinance or raise additional equity and, if so, whether it would be on acceptable terms. The failure to obtain such funds would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and value. We have risks associated with compliance with various agreements and contracts. The Company and its subsidiaries operate under various contractual obligations and financing agreements. A failure to maintain compliance with these contracts and obligations could result in the cancellation or non-renewal of the contract which may have a negative effect on the operations of the Company. We have limited available capital, and we may need additional financing in the future. We believe that our current and anticipated cash flow from operations, financings and equity transactions will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months; however, there can be no assurance in this regard. If we are unable to generate cash flows from operations to fund our working capital needs or other contemplated expenditures, we would be required to obtain additional equity or debt financing to continue to operate our business. In addition, we anticipate that each project we acquire or develop will require us to raise additional financing, some of which may be in the form of additional equity. Our ability to raise additional funds is restricted by our financing arrangements which, among other things, limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to issue equity, incur debt or sell assets. In particular, the Silver Point financing 10 Table of Contents arrangements prohibit us and our subsidiaries from incurring any additional debt and require us, with certain exceptions, to prepay the UK Silver Point loan if, among other things, we or our subsidiaries issue equity. As the result of the sale of $6,400,000 worth of U.S. Energy Systems, Inc.’s common stock, as further described in Note X to the consolidated financial statements, the Company paid Silver Point $1,700,000 against the UK loan and is obligated in the future to make additional payments against the UK loan equal to 50% of the net proceeds from any future equity sales. Further, Silver Point has the exclusive right to arrange financing for us through December 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us, or if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. If we are required to issue equity to raise additional funds, significant dilution to existing stockholders may result. If additional financing for projects is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to cancel, decline or defer new projects. Any inability by us to obtain additional financing to meet cash or capital requirements, if required, may have a material adverse effect on our operations. There are environmental health and safety risks which may result in additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in projects’ and systems’ activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted and which may be material. Our projects are regulated by numerous and significant laws, including statutes, regulations, by-laws, guidelines, policies, directives and other requirements governing or relating to, among other things: air emissions, discharges into water, the storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of dangerous goods and hazardous and residual materials, such as chemicals; the prevention of releases of contaminants, pollutants or hazardous materials into the environment; the presence, remediation and monitoring of contaminants, pollutants or hazardous materials in soil and water, including surface or groundwater, both on and off site; land use and zoning matters; and workers health and safety matters. As such, the operation of the projects and systems carry an inherent risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities (including potential civil actions, compliance or remediation orders, fines and other penalties), and may result in the projects and systems being involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings relating to such matters, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Our projects have obtained environmental permits that are required for their operation. Although we believe that the operations of the facilities are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, including permits required for the operation of the projects and systems and although there are environmental monitoring and reporting systems in place with respect to all the projects and systems, there is no guarantee that more stringent laws will not be imposed, that there will not be more stringent enforcement of applicable laws or that such systems may not fail, which may result in material expenditures. Failure by the projects and systems to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements, or increases in the cost of such compliance, including as a result of unanticipated liabilities (whether as a result of newly discovered issues or known issues that have not been quantified) or expenditures for investigation, assessment, remediation or monitoring, could result in additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the projects’ and systems’ activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted and which may be material. We depend on our electricity and landfill gas customers. Our energy facilities rely on one or more energy sales agreements with one or more customers for a substantial portion of their revenues. Any material failure by any customer to fulfill its obligations under an energy sales agreement could have a negative effect on the cash flow available to us and on our results of operations. Commonwealth Edison accounted for 33%, 39% and 42% of our revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our business of owning and operating power plants and district energy systems involves considerable operating risk. Our equipment may break down which could have an adverse effect of operating results and cash flows. The operation of energy generation facilities involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation, heating and cooling equipment, transmission lines, pipes or other equipment or processes and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. Although we have insurance that will allow us to recover certain expenses and lost revenues, such insurance is subject to deductibles and other limitations. Any costs incurred or revenue lost and not recovered through such insurance could have an adverse effect on operating results and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Some of our projects are operated by independent, third party operators. USEB’s ten Illinois projects are operated by two independent third-party operators. USEB is and will be dependent on these third party operators for the successful operation of these projects. To the extent that these parties do not fulfill their obligations, USEB’s operations at these projects could be adversely affected. The energy business is very competitive and increased competition could adversely affect us. In addition to competition from electric utilities in the markets where our projects are located, our energy business also faces competition from companies currently involved in the cogeneration, landfill gas to energy market and the independent power market. Some of these companies are larger and better financed than we are. No assurances can be made that there will not be significant competition in such markets. Additionally, in recent years, such competition has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices in certain markets. We may experience project development risks. Our ability to develop new projects is dependent on a number of factors outside our control, including obtaining customer contracts, power agreements, governmental permits and approvals, fuel supply and transportation agreements, electrical transmission agreements, site agreements, permits and appraisals. Project development involves significant environmental, engineering and construction risks. Although we have insurance it may not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. Although we maintain insurance of various types to cover many of the risks that apply to our operations, including $1,000,000 of general liability insurance, a $20,000,000 umbrella policy, as well as separate insurance for each project, our insurance will not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. The occurrence of a significant adverse event, the risks of which are not fully covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. We have numerous outstanding options and warrants which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding options, restricted stock units, both vested and unvested, and warrants to acquire up to an aggregate of 17,539,139 shares of our common stock at prices ranging from $0.01 to $25 per share. For the term of the agreements, the holders thereof will have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risk of ownership. This may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and on the terms upon which we could obtain additional capital. 12 Table of Contents Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 