Item 1A. Risk Factors. As an investment management firm, risk is an inherent part of our business. Capital markets, by their nature, are prone to uncertainty and expose participants to a variety of risks. While we devote significant resources across all of our operations to identify, measure, monitor, manage and analyze market and operating risk, our business, financial condition, operating results, or share price could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. Additionally, other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material or of which we are not presently aware may become important factors that affect us in the future. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Risks Related to Our Business Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by negative performance of the securities markets. Our investment advisory and investment management business would be expected to generate lower revenues in a market or general economic downturn. Under our asset management business arrangements, investment advisory fees we receive typically are based on the market value of AUM. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities would be expected to cause our revenue and net income to decline by: •causing the value of our AUM to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory fees, and/or •causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our asset management business in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which also would result in lower investment advisory fees. Because of market fluctuations, there may not be a consistent pattern in our financial results from period to period. This may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may experience significant fluctuations in revenue and profits. Because our revenues are based on the value of AUM, a decline in the value of AUM would adversely affect our revenues. Because of 15 Table of Contents market fluctuations, it may be difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could lead to large adverse movements in the price of our common stock or increased volatility in our stock price. Investment performance affects our AUM related to existing clients and is one of the most important factors in retaining clients and competing for new asset management business. Poor investment performance could impair our revenue and growth because: •existing clients might withdraw funds from our asset management business in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment advisory fees; •third-party financial intermediaries, advisers or consultants may rate our products poorly, which may result in client withdrawals and reduced asset flows from these third parties or their clients; or •firms with which we have strategic alliances may terminate such relationships with us, and future strategic alliances may be unavailable. Our investment style in the asset management business may underperform other investment approaches, which may result in significant client or asset departures or a reduction in AUM. Even when securities prices are rising, performance can be affected by investment style. Many of the equity investment strategies in our asset management business share a common investment orientation towards fundamental security selection. Our overall investment philosophy is focused on achieving a superior risk-adjusted return by investing in companies that generate free cash flow. We believe this style tends to outperform the market in some market environments and underperform it in others. In particular, a prolonged "growth" environment (i.e., a prolonged period whereby growth stocks outperform value stocks) may cause our investment strategy to go out of favor with some clients, consultants or third-party intermediaries. In combination with poor performance relative to peers, any changes in personnel, extensive periods in particular market environments, or other difficulties, may result in significant client or asset departures or a reduction in AUM. The significant growth we have experienced since inception may not be indicative of future growth. Our assets under management have increased from approximately $0.8 billion at June 30, 2004 to approximately $11.3 billion at June 30, 2010, and represents a significant rate of growth that may be difficult to sustain. The growth of our business will depend on, among other things, our success in producing attractive returns in our investment strategies, our ability to expand our distribution capabilities, overall performance of the equity markets, our ability to deal with changing market conditions, our ability to maintain adequate financial and business controls, and our ability to comply with new legal and regulatory requirements. Because our clients can remove the assets we manage on short notice, we may experience unexpected declines in revenue and profitability. Our investment advisory and sub-advisory contracts are generally cancellable upon very short notice. Institutional and individual clients, and firms with which we have strategic alliances, can terminate their relationship with use, reduce the aggregate amount of AUM or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for a number of reasons—including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. Poor performance relative to other investment management firms may result in decreased inflows into our investment products, increased withdrawals from our investment products, and the loss of institutional or individual accounts or strategic alliances. In addition, the ability to terminate relationships may allow clients to renegotiate for lower fees paid for asset management services. 16 Table of Contents In addition, in the U.S., as required by the Investment Advisers Act, each of our investment advisory contracts with the mutual funds we advise or sub-advise automatically terminates upon its "assignment," or transfer of our responsibility for fund management. Each of our other investment advisory contracts subject to the provisions of the Investment Advisers Act, as required by this act, provides that the contract may not be "assigned" without the consent of the customer. A sale of a sufficiently large block of shares of our voting securities or other transactions could be deemed an "assignment" in certain circumstances. An assignment, actual or constructive, will trigger these termination provisions and could adversely affect our ability to continue managing these client accounts. To the extent that a technical "assignment" of investment advisory contracts arises, we will take the necessary steps to provide clients an opportunity to consent to the continuation of their advisory agreements. Such new agreements may need approval by the stockholders of the respective funds. In the event that any of these clients do not consent to a renewal of their agreement, we could lose AUM, which would result in a loss of revenue. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could lower our net income or negatively impact the portfolios of our clients and may affect the levels of our AUM. Although most portfolios are in U.S. dollar base currency, certain client portfolios are invested in securities denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currency fluctuations can adversely impact investment performance for a client's portfolio. Accordingly, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the levels of our AUM. As our AUM includes assets that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to those non-U.S. currencies may result in a decrease in the dollar value of our AUM, which, in turn, would result in lower U.S. dollar denominated revenue in our business. Additionally, while this risk could be limited by foreign currency hedging, some risks cannot be hedged and there is no guarantee that our hedging activity would be successful. Access to clients through intermediaries is important to our asset management business, and reductions in referrals from such intermediaries or poor reviews of our products or our organization by such intermediaries could materially reduce our revenue and impair our ability to attract new clients. Our ability to market its services relies, in part, on receiving mandates from the client base of international and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators, investment consultants and other intermediaries. To an increasing extent, our business uses referrals from accountants, lawyers, financial planners and other professional advisers. The inability to have this access could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, these intermediaries review and evaluate our products and our organization. Poor reviews or evaluations of either the particular products or of our Company may result in client withdrawals or an inability to attract new assets through such intermediaries. Some members of management are critical to our success, and the inability to attract and retain key employees could compromise our future success. If key employees were to leave the firm, whether to join a competitor or otherwise, we may experience a decline in revenue or earnings, which may have an adverse effect on our financial position. Loss of key employees may occur due to perceived opportunity for promotion, increased compensation, work environment or other individual reasons, some of which may be beyond our control. Except for our CEO, there are no employment agreements with any other key employees. The loss of services of one or more key employees, or failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel 17 Table of Contents could negatively impact the business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. As with other asset management businesses, future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain officers, portfolio managers and other key marketing, client service and management personnel. There is substantial competition for these types of skilled personnel. In order to attract or retain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation. Compensation levels in the investment management industry are highly competitive and can fluctuate significantly from year to year. Our reputation is critical to our success. As a financial services firm, we depend, to a large extent, on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services. Any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management. Additionally, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur in our business, as well. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. In our business, we have discretion to trade client assets on the client's behalf and must do so acting in the best interest of the client. As a result, we are subject to a number of obligations and standards, and the violation of those obligations or standards may adversely affect the Company's clients and the Company. We have adopted and implemented a number of insider trading, code of ethics, and other related policies and procedures to address such obligations and standards. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. We derive more than 10% of its operating revenue from one client. Pursuant to a strategic relationship with New York Life Investment Management, EIP is the sub-advisor of several mutual funds within New York Life Investment Management's MainStay group of funds. As such, New York Life Investment Management accounted for approximately 16% of revenues for FY 2010. A loss of this client could negatively impact our operating revenues. Changes in fee levels or asset mix could reduce revenues and margins. Our profit margins and net income are dependent, in significant part, on our ability to maintain current fee levels for the products that we offer. There has been a trend towards lower fees in some segments of the asset management industry and no assurances can be given that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure. Although our investment management fees vary from product to product, we compete primarily on the basis of our performance and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and client service that incentivize our clients to pay our fees. Additionally, a shift in the mix in our assets under management from higher revenue-generating assets to lower revenue-generating assets may result in a decrease in revenues even if our aggregate level of assets under management remains unchanged or increases. Other operational risks may disrupt our business, result in regulatory action against us, or limit our growth. Our business is dependent on communications and information systems, including those of our vendors. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could materially adversely 18 Table of Contents affect our operating results. Although we have back-up systems in place, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to its clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. We expect that we will need to continue to upgrade and expand these capabilities in the future to avoid disruption of, or constraints on, our operations. We may be exposed to data security risks. A failure to safeguard the integrity and confidentiality of client data from the infiltration by an unauthorized user that is either stored on or transmitted between our information systems or to other third party service provider systems may lead to modifications or theft of critical and sensitive data pertaining to our clients. The costs incurred to correct client data and prevent further unauthorized access could be extensive. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Various factors may prevent the declaration and payment of common stock dividends. We began to pay a quarterly cash dividend, commencing in the quarter ended December 31, 2007. However, the payment of dividends in the future is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and various other factors may prevent us from paying dividends. Our Board of Directors will take into account such matters as general business conditions, our financial results, and legal or regulatory restrictions. We may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures that could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs and could dilute the stock ownership of our stockholders. We routinely assess our strategic position and may seek acquisitions or other transactions to further enhance our competitive position. As part of our long-term business strategy, we may pursue joint ventures and other transactions aimed at expanding the geography and scope of our operations. We expect to explore partnership opportunities that we believe to be attractive. If we are not correct when we assess the value, strengths and weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates or are not successful in integrating the operations of the acquired business, the success of the combined business could be compromised. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, difficulty with integrating personnel and financial and other systems, hiring additional management and other critical personnel and increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Our clients may react unfavorably to our acquisition and joint venture strategy, we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions, and may be exposed to additional liabilities of any acquired business or joint venture, any of which could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. In addition, future acquisitions or joint ventures may involve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which would dilute our existing ownership. 19 Table of Contents Certain changes in accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), the SEC or other standard-setting bodies could have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. We are subject to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), which periodically are revised and/or expanded. As such, we periodically are required to adopt new or revised accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by recognized accounting standard setters or regulators, including the FASB and the SEC. It is possible that future requirements, including the recently proposed implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"), could change our current application of GAAP, resulting in a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry We face strong competition from financial services firms, many of whom have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we can offer, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The financial services industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so. In addition to performance, we compete on the basis of a number of factors including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We believe that we may experience pricing pressures in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees. Any event that negatively affects the asset management industry could have a material adverse impact on us. Any event affecting the asset management industry that results in a general decrease in AUM or a significant general decline in the number of advisory clients or accounts could negatively impact revenues. Future growth and success depends, in part, upon favorable market conditions and the growth of the asset management industry. Extensive regulation of our business limits our activities and results in ongoing exposure to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on our ability to conduct its business. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of an investment adviser. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including customer protection and market conduct requirements. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to modifications and further regulation. New laws, regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our Company and our clients may also adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. In addition, the regulatory environment in which our clients operate may impact our business. For example, changes in antitrust 20 Table of Contents laws or the enforcement of antitrust laws could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity and changes in state laws may limit investment activities of state pension plans. Instances of criminal activity and fraud by participants in the asset management industry, disclosures of trading and other abuses by participants in the financial services industry, and the recent massive governmental intervention and investment in the financial markets and financial firms have lead the U.S. government and regulators to increase the rules and regulations governing, and oversight of, the U.S. financial system. The cumulative effect of these actions may result in increased expenses, or lower management fees, and therefore, adversely affect the revenues or profitability of our business. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts, have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seeks to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. These policies and procedures may result in increased costs, additional operational personnel, and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to our policies and procedures could result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Specific regulatory changes may also have a direct impact on the revenue of our asset management business. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the asset management industry. These regulatory changes and other proposed or potential changes may result in a reduction of revenue associated with asset management. The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial advisers has been increasing. In our business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients which could result in substantial losses. This may subject us to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. We may also be subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. Due to the extensive laws and regulations to which we are subject, management is required to devote substantial time and effort to legal and regulatory compliance issues. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 