ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this report. Our operations are not profitable and may not become profitable in the future We had net losses of $9,466,000 and $9,244,000 in 2005 and 2004, respectively, and losses from operations of $801,000 and $4,029,000 in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our ability to become profitable depends significantly upon factors over which we have limited or no control. Those factors include, among other things, the quantity and quality of USEB’s long term fuel supply, rates paid for energy sales, the continuation of governmental subsidies for “green power” such as the Illinois Retail Rate Program and Section 29 tax credits, foreign currency exchange rates and interest expense. While we are pursuing value enhancement alternatives such as the Viking Petroleum acquisition and related transactions, there can be no assurance that we will become profitable. Our subsidiaries have substantial indebtedness and related interest expense and in connection with their existing indebtedness we have agreed to significant restrictions upon their operations, including their ability to use their cash. We have substantial debt that has been incurred to finance the acquisition and development of energy facilities. As of December 31, 2005, our total consolidated debt was $89,161,000. Our interest expense in 2005 was $10,800,000. The terms of this debt require USEB to deposit $250,000 per calender quarter into the debt service reserve fund provided that cash available, as defined in the loan agreement, is at certain levels. USEB was only required to make $84,000 of additional deposits into the debt service reserve during 2004 and none during 2005. Until an amount is deposited into the reserve equal to $250,000 per quarter since the April 8, 2004 closing, USEB is precluded from making dividend or royalty payments or from expending funds to expand its production capacity. Whether USEB will be able to meet its debt service obligations will depend primarily upon the performance of its energy projects. 9 We have rate risk within the Illinois Retail Rate Program. Rates paid to USEB projects participating in the Illinois Retail Rate Program are adjusted annually in arrears. These rate adjustments are based upon the rate the municipality local to the project pays for their electrcity. During 2005 and 2004, USEB experienced rate reductions of 3.2% and 8.9%, respectively, in the average rates received under this program and rate reductions of 23% and 31% in three Illinois projects whose electricity production is sold to one customer that accounted for more then 35% or our revenues in 2004 and 2005. Projects participating in this program accounted for 57% and 59% of our revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively. USEB cannot predict whether any other rate changes are likely or whether such changes will result in an increase or a decrease in the rate paid. Any additional rate decreases will have a negative effect on our operating results and cash flow. We may not be able to complete the acquisition of Viking Petroleum and the related transactions and even if completed, these transactions may not be profitable to us. We are in the process of acquiring Viking Petroleum. To realize the full economic benefits of this acquisition, we must, among other things, complete the acquisition of a 42 MW gas fired power plant, terminate and enter into various gas and power sales agreements and implement various improvements to the acquired assets. The contemplated improvements require, among other things, the issuance of various governmental permits and infrastructure development. The estimated cost of these transactions and the related capital expenditures required over the next three years is approximately $132 million. We require external financing to finance these transactions. We are exploring various alternative sources of external financing, including project debt financing secured by the project assets. No assurance can be given that the external financings required to complete these transactions will be available or available on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. Further, we have limited experience in completing and managing projects of this magnitude. No assurance can be given that we will complete the acquisition of Viking Petroleum or the related transactions or that if completed, such activities will be profitable to us. Our results may be impacted by foreign currency exchange rates. Pursuant to the terms of the financing arrangements with the Countryside Fund, USEB is required to make debt service payments to the Countryside Fund in Canadian dollars. As the result of changes in foreign currency rates, USEB has incurred foreign currency transaction expenses of $2,775,000 in 2005 and $6,989,000 in 2004. USEB has entered into a hedge agreement expiring March 2007 with financial institutions fixing the Canadian dollar to the US dollar exchange rate at $1.331 Canadian dollar per US dollar through the expiration date. Beginning April 1, 2007, USEB is required to maintain a foreign currency hedge agreement for a minimum of 75% of the remaining debt service payments. USEB will be at risk for fluctuations in the currency exchange rate should the rate vary from the exchange rate existing in the expiring hedge agreement. Had USEB not been hedged from the effects of changes in the foreign currency exchange rates, debt service payments for 2005 would have been significantly higher. A significant source of USEB’s revenues are generated from special tax credits provided for the sale of landfill gas to third parties and these credits expire on December 31, 2007. USEB benefits from Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 29 provides that owners of biogas facilities that collect and sell biogas as a fuel are permitted to reduce their annual federal income tax liability with a tax credit based upon the volume of the biogas sold to unrelated third parties. USEB has sold interests in the Gascos producing these tax credits to financial investors and such sales have provided USEB with additional revenue. Part of the purchase price is contingent on gas production. If gas production were to fall, USEB’s revenues may decline. The tax credit is available for biogas produced at projects that had existing gas collection facilities that were placed in service before July 1, 1998. The tax credits are available for qualifying projects until December 31, 2007, except that projects which were in operation prior to 1993 qualified for the tax credits only through 2002. Upon the expiration of the Section 29 tax credits on December 31, 2007, USEB’s revenues may be reduced. Revenues related to the Section 29 tax credits were $926,000, $1,212,000 and $1,060,000 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 10 Neither USEB, any of the Gascos, nor any Gasco partner has received a ruling from the IRS confirming that the biogas facilities of the Gascos meet the requirements of Section 29, that the sales of interests in the Gascos by USEB were structured in a way that would entitle the buyers to Section 29 credits, or that sales of methane from the Gascos to the Gencos or Transcos generate Section 29 credits. While a ruling is not required, as is the case with any Section 29 transaction in which a ruling is not obtained, the IRS may challenge the availability of Section 29 credits to any of the Gascos or to other partners. USEB has agreed to indemnify the financial investors that have purchased interests in the Gascos for certain losses suffered by such investors in the event that the Section 29 tax credits are denied in certain circumstances. Under the Internal Revenue Service Code Section 29, the amount of the tax credit generated from non conventional fuel sources, such as landfill gas, shall be reduced or eliminated should the reference price of an equivalent barrel of energy (“EBE”) utilized to establish the value of the credit reach certain levels. Should the EBE reference price exceed the specified levels, the resultant decline in the tax credit value generated by the sale of landfill gas by USEB will reduce the amount of proceeds USEB receuves related to the tax credits. We have legislative risk pertaining to the continuation of the Illinois Retail Rate Program. Ten of the Illinois project owned by our USEB subsidiary operate under the Illinois Retail Rate program. Under the program, the Illinois Commerce Commission mandates that the local utility purchase power from our projects at above market rates. The utility is reimbursed by Illinois for any payments made to our projects above market rates or avoided costs. During 2004, 2005 and again in 2006, the Governor and/or Lieutenant Governor of Illinois and members of the Illinois legislature have proposed changes to or the elimination of the Illinois Retail Rate Program and have introduced legislation to such effect. While legislation has not been adopted, the adoption of legislation or the implementation of rules that would reduce or eliminate the benefits received by the Company under this program would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Gross revenues received under the Illinois Retail Rate Program constituted 57% of our revenues for 2005. Revenues directly related to the receipt of the rate subsidy under the Program constituted 21% of our revenues for 2005. We may face substantial impediments to completing future acquisitions and development projects. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and acquire appropriate companies or energy projects, our ability to develop new energy projects, our ability to integrate the acquired and developed operations effectively and our ability to increase our market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify viable acquisition candidates or development projects, that any identified candidates or development projects will be acquired or developed, that acquired companies or power facilities and developed projects will be effectively integrated to realize expected efficiencies and economies of scale, or that any acquisitions or development projects will prove to be profitable or be without unforeseen liabilities. In the event that acquisition candidates or development projects are not identifiable or acquisitions or development projects are prohibitively costly, we may be forced to alter our future growth strategy. As we continue to pursue our acquisition and development strategy in the future, our stock price, financial condition and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. We may be unable to acquire or renew the numerous permits and approvals required to operate power facilities. The construction and operation of energy projects require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies, as well as compliance with environmental laws and other regulations. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable regulations and that each of our projects has the requisite approvals, our projects require compliance with a varied and complex body of laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. There can be no assurance that new laws or amendments to existing laws which would have a materially adverse affect will not be adopted, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals for proposed projects or that completed facilities will comply with all applicable permit conditions, statutes and regulations. In addition, regulatory compliance for the construction of new facilities is a costly and time consuming process which may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain permits, and may create a significant risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. 11 We have limited available capital, and we may need additional financing in the future. We believe that our current and anticipated cash flow from operations and assets sales from the financing sources and transactions described herein will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months; however, there can be no assurance in this regard. As of December 31, 2005 we had $11,301,000 in unrestricted cash available. If we are unable to generate cash flows from operations to fund our working capital needs or other contemplated expenditures, we would be required to obtain additional equity or debt financing to continue to operate our business. In addition, we anticipate that each project we acquire or develop will require us to raise additional financing, some of which may be in the form of additional equity. There can be no assurance that this capital will be available to us, or if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. If we are required to issue equity to raise additional funds, significant dilution to existing stockholders may result. If additional financing for projects is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to cancel, decline or defer new projects. Any inability by us to obtain additional financing to meet cash or capital requirements, if required, may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Environmental Health and Safety Risks Our projects are regulated by numerous and significant laws, including statutes, regulations, by-laws, guidelines, policies, directives and other requirements governing or relating to, among other things: air emissions, discharges into water, the storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of dangerous goods and hazardous and residual materials, such as chemicals; the prevention of releases of contaminants, pollutants or hazardous materials into the environment; the presence, remediation and monitoring of contaminants, pollutants or hazardous materials in soil and water, including surface or groundwater, both on and off site; land use and zoning matters; and workers health and safety matters. As such, the operation of the projects and systems carry an inherent risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities (including potential civil actions, compliance or remediation orders, fines and other penalties), and may result in the projects and systems being involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings relating to such matters, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Our projects have obtained environmental permits that are required for their operation. Although we believe that the operations of the facilities are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, including permits required for the operation of the projects and systems and although there are environmental monitoring and reporting systems in place with respect to all the projects and systems, there is no guarantee that more stringent laws will not be imposed, that there will not be more stringent enforcement of applicable laws or that such systems may not fail, which may result in material expenditures. Failure by the projects and systems to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements, or increases in the cost of such compliance, including as a result of unanticipated liabilities (whether as a result of newly discovered issues or known issues that have not been quantified) or expenditures for investigation, assessment, remediation or monitoring, could result in additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the projects’ and systems’ activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted and which may be material. Resource Availability and Constancy The Biogas Projects rely on the extraction of biogas from public and privately-owned landfill sites. The decomposition of waste generates gas that is comprised of methane, carbon dioxide, and other gaseous material. Landfills typically can generate biogas for more than 30 years. Landfills generally produce biogas in increasing volumes during their initial years of operation and for several years after they are closed. Then the biogas volume gradually declines over ensuing years. Therefore each project is likely to produce less revenue after the first years following the landfill closing, and may over time become unprofitable as the volume of biogas continues to decline. Thus in many cases it is not profitable to maintain projects more than a certain number of years following the closing of the related landfill. The quantity of available biogas is determined by numerous factors including, without limitation, filling pattern of the landfill, the composition of the waste, compaction, moisture content, time and climatic conditions. These factors are beyond the control of USEB. Further, they constitute future events that cannot be predicted with certainty. In the event that the amount of biogas produced by a landfill is less than expected, the methane component of the gas is less than expected or the duration of biogas emission is shorter than expected, the sale of biogas by USEB, the production of electricity by USEB and/or the amount of revenue received by USEB from the sale of Section 29 tax credits may be adversely affected in a material manner. 12 Generally with respect to each Biogas Project: (i) the Gasco’s right to extract biogas from the landfill is subject to a long-term gas rights agreement with the landfill owner; (ii) the Genco or Transco’s right to purchase biogas from the Gasco is subject to a long-term gas purchase agreement with the Gasco; and (iii) the Genco or Transco’s right to occupy the landfill is subject to a long-term lease with the landfill owner. In certain cases, based on the occurrence of certain events, including an event of default by the Gasco, Genco or Transco the contract counterparty may terminate the applicable agreement or lease prior to the expiry of its term. While USEB believes that the Biogas Projects, Gascos, Gencos and Transco’s are in material compliance with all of their respective agreements or leases, if one of the foregoing agreements or leases was terminated prematurely, for any reason, the relevant Biogas Project would be affected in a material adverse manner. QSWEF Status All of USEB’s Illinois-based Biogas Projects qualify as Qualified Solid Waste to Energy Facilities (“QSWEFs”) and therefore benefit from the Illinois Retail Rate Program. The Program permits such QSWEFs to sell electricity that they generate to public utilities in whose service areas the QSWEFs are located at a rate that during the period of the Rate Incentive Program (a) is equal to the average amount per kwh paid by the local governmental entities for electricity (with certain exceptions) in such QSWEFs’ respective jurisdictions and (b) typically exceeds the public utilities’ respective Avoided Costs. Eligibility for the Rate Incentive Program is based on compliance with the requirements contained in the Illinois Public Utility Act, regulations promulgated by the Illinois Commerce Commission (“ICC Regulations”) and the ICC Orders issued by the ICC respecting QSWEFs. A QSWEF would lose all or some of the benefits provided by the Rate Incentive Program if it were found to be in non-compliance with these requirements. Similarly, a QSWEF may lose all or some of such benefits in the event of modifications to the Illinois Public Utility Act, the ICC Regulations, the ICC Orders or ICC policies or repeal of the Illinois Public Utility Act. In such event, the revenues and profits from the affected QSWEFs may be materially adversely impacted. The rate incentive received by each QSWEF, which must be reimbursed to Illinois, represents the excess of the Gross Contract Rate received by such QSWEF from the public utility less the public utility’s Avoided Cost. Therefore, the QSWEF’s rate incentive and corresponding reimbursement obligation will depend, among other things, on the level of such Avoided Cost, which is beyond the control of the QSWEF. Loss of QSWEF status could trigger defaults under covenants to maintain QSWEF status in various purchase and loan agreements (including the loans agreements with Countryside Fund) and result in termination, penalties or acceleration of indebtedness under such agreements plus interest. Illinois Subsidy Liability Repayment The ICC has broad powers to enforce and interpret the provisions of the Illinois Public Utility Act, ICC Regulations and ICC Orders. In the future, the ICC may promulgate new regulations and establish new policies or modify existing regulations and policies. Such actions may have a materially adverse impact on some or all of the Illinois-based Biogas Projects. The ICC has enforcement authority to direct each owner of an Illinois-based Biogas Project to satisfy its subsidy liability repayment obligations, which authority may extend to, among other matters, the legal entity that is to hold the Illinois Accounts, the amount of funds to be deposited annually in the Illinois Accounts and the kinds of investments in which such funds are or may be invested. Although the ICC has considered imposing and has imposed such requirements in the past as a condition to its approval of certain proposed transactions, it cannot be predicted with certainty whether and under what similar or different circumstances the ICC may attempt to impose any of such requirements in the future. However, provided the QSWEFs (a) remain in compliance in good faith with the current Illinois Public Utilities Act, ICC Regulations and ICC Orders, (b) make timely deposits to their Illinois Accounts that, together with earnings thereon from a reasonable and balanced investment portfolio, are reasonably sufficient to meet the QSWEFs’ reimbursement obligations to the Illnois, and (c) do not seek approval from the ICC for any transactions that require ICC approval or modify existing ICC Orders, the we have no reason to believe that the ICC will take any such actions respecting the QSWEFs in a manner materially adverse to them. 13 Under the Illinois Retail Rate Program, each QSWEF must begin to repay the subsidy it has received to Illinois beginning no later that the earlier of the date the QSWEF has paid or otherwise satisfied in full the capital costs or indebtedness incurred in developing its facility and 10 years after the date its facility commenced commercial operation, with such repayment to be completed no later than the earlier of 20 years after such date of commencement of commercial operation or the end of its facility’s actual useful life. In order to meet this obligation, each QSWEF has established an Illinois Account in which it has deposited and is required to deposit a portion of the subsidy as it is received with the expectation that such deposits, when invested prudently in a balanced portfolio managed by professional advisors, will over time generate sufficient earnings to permit such QSWEF to meet its reimbursement obligations to Illnois as and when they come due. However, in the event the ICC exercised its enforcement authority in a manner that resulted in a lower return than expected or the investments in the Illinois accounts otherwise do not generate the expected earnings, a QSWEF may not have sufficient funds to meet its obligations to reimburse the Illnois when such obligations come due with potential material adverse consequences to the affected QSWEF. We depend on our electricity and landfill gas customers. Our energy facilities rely on one or more energy sales agreements with one or more customers for a substantial portion of their revenues. Any material failure by any customer to fulfill its obligations under an energy sales agreement could have a negative effect on the cash flow available to us and on our results of operations. Commonwealth Edison accounted for 39% and 42% of our revenues in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our business of owning, operating power plants and district energy systems involve considerable risk. Our equipment may breakdown and we rely on third parties to operate certain projects. The operation of energy generation facilities involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation, heating and cooling, equipment, transmission lines, pipes or other equipment or processes and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. Although the facilities in which we are or will be involved contain some redundancies and back-up mechanisms, no assurances can be made that those redundancies or back-up mechanisms would allow the affected facility to perform under applicable power purchase and energy sale agreements. Two third party operators operate ten USEB projects in Illinois. As a result, USEB is and will be dependent on these third party operators for the successful operation of these projects. To the extent that these parties do not fulfill their obligations, USEB’s operations at these projects could be adversely affected. The energy business is very competitive and increased competition could adversely affect us. In addition to competition from electric utilities in the markets where our projects are located, our energy business also faces competition from companies currently involved in the cogeneration and independent power market throughout the United States. Some of these companies are larger and better financed than we are. Although we believe that we will be entering segments of the marketplace where we will not face extensive competition, no assurances can be made that we will be able to enter these markets or that there will not be competition in such markets. Additionally, in recent years, such competition has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices in certain markets. While a majority of the off-takers of our projects are contractually obligated to purchase electricity under long-term power PPAs, the projects based on market pricing will be exposed to fluctuations in the wholesale price of electricity. In addition, should any of the long-term contracts terminate or expire, we will be required to either negotiate new PPAs or sell into the wholesale market for electricity, in which case the prices for electricity will depend on market conditions at the time. Similarly, when the Biogas Projects located in Illinois are no longer eligible to receive incentives under the Rate Incentive Program, it is expected that the projects will seek to negotiate new contracts in the Green Power Market based on rates prevailing in the Green Power Market at the time. Further, the Gross Contract Rate which USEB’s Illinois-based Biogas Projects receive is equal to the average amount per kwh paid by the local government entities in the project’s respective jurisdiction and, therefore, may be subject to change. 14 We may experience project development risks. Our ability to develop new projects is dependent on a number of factors outside our control, including obtaining customer contracts, power agreements, governmental permits and approvals, fuel supply and transportation agreeements, electrical transmission agreement, site agreements, permit and appraisals. Project development involves significant environmental, engineering and construction risks. Although we have insurance it may not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. Although we maintain insurance of various types to cover many of the risks that apply to our operations, including $1,000,000 of general liability insurance, a $20,000,000 umbrella policy, as well as separate insurance for each project, our insurance will not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. The occurrence of a significant adverse event, the risks of which are not fully covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 