Item 1A. Risk Factors. As an investment management firm, risk is an inherent part of our business. Capital markets, by their nature, are prone to uncertainty and expose participants to a variety of risks. While we devote significant resources across all of our operations to identify, measure, monitor, manage and analyze market and operating risk, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, or share price could be materially adversely affected by any of the following risks. Additionally, other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material or of which we are not presently aware may become important factors that affect us in the future. Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including reducing the value of our AUM and/or causing clients to withdraw funds, each of which could materially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. We derive all of our revenues from investment management services. The investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of AUM. Accordingly, a general or prolonged decline in securities markets, and equity markets in particular, may cause our revenues and net income to decline due to (i) the value of our AUM decreasing, and/or (ii) clients withdrawing funds in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk. The securities markets have recently been and may continue to be highly volatile and securities prices may decrease for many reasons beyond our control, including a general economic downturn, deterioration in the credit of sovereign nations, political uncertainty or acts of terrorism or war. In addition, any such decline in the equity markets, failure of these markets to sustain their prior levels of growth, or continued volatility in these markets could result in clients withdrawing funds from our investment strategies in full or in part, or decreased demand for our investment services, which would adversely affect us. Our operating margin may also be adversely affected if we are unable to reduce fixed costs and other expenses within a time frame sufficient to match any decrease in revenue relating to changes in our AUM. Our investment style in the asset management business may underperform other investment approaches, which may result in client or asset departures or a reduction in AUM. Even when securities prices are rising, performance can be affected by investment style. Many of the equity investment strategies in our asset management business share a common investment orientation toward fundamental security selection. Our overall investment philosophy is focused on achieving superior long-term, 13 Table of Contents total and risk-adjusted returns by investing in companies that generate free cash flow. We believe this style tends to outperform the market in some market environments and underperform it in others. In particular, a prolonged “growth” environment (i.e., a prolonged period whereby growth stocks outperform value stocks) may cause our investment strategy to be out of favor with some clients, consultants or third-party intermediaries and may result in client or asset departures or a reduction in AUM. If our investment strategies perform poorly, our results of operations, financial condition and our prospects for future growth may be materially adversely affected. The relative performance of our investment strategies is critical in retaining existing clients as well as attracting new clients. If our investment strategies perform poorly, our earnings could be reduced because: • existing clients may withdraw funds from our asset management business in favor of better performing investment strategies, which could cause the revenues that we generate from our investment advisory fees to decline; • third-party financial intermediaries, advisers or consultants may rate our investment strategies poorly, which may result in client withdrawals and reduced asset flows from these third parties or their clients; • the investment funds which we advise or sub-advise may decide not to renew or decide to terminate the agreements pursuant to which we advise or sub-advise them and we may not be able to replace these relationships; or • firms with which we have strategic alliances may terminate such relationships with us, and future strategic alliances may be unavailable. Because our clients can remove the assets we manage on short notice, we may experience unexpected declines in revenue and profitability. Our investment advisory and sub-advisory agreements can generally be terminated upon very short notice. Institutional and individual clients, and firms with which we have strategic alliances, can terminate their relationships with us, reduce the aggregate amount of AUM or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different fee structures for a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, changes in investment preferences, changes in their management or control, loss of our key investment management or other personnel, and financial market performance. Further, the ability to terminate relationships may allow clients to renegotiate for lower fees paid for asset management services. The decrease in revenues that results from any such significant terminations, withdrawals or reductions in fees could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in the U.S., as required by the Investment Company Act, each of our investment advisory agreements with the mutual funds we advise or sub-advise automatically terminates upon its “assignment,” or transfer of our responsibility for fund management. Each of our other investment advisory agreements subject to the provisions of the Investment Advisers Act provides that the agreement may not be “assigned” without the consent of the client. A sale of a sufficiently large block of shares of our voting securities or other transactions could be deemed an “assignment” in certain circumstances. An assignment, actual or constructive, will trigger these termination provisions and could adversely affect our ability to continue managing these client accounts. To the extent that a technical “assignment” of investment advisory agreements arises, we will take the necessary steps to provide clients an opportunity to consent to the continuation of their advisory agreements. Such new agreements may need approval by the stockholders of the respective funds. In the event that any of these clients do not consent to a renewal of their agreement, our revenue and profitability may be materially adversely impacted. 14 Table of Contents Our business and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted by the highly variable nature of our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, because of market fluctuations, there may not be a consistent pattern in our financial results from period to period. Because our revenues are based on the value of our AUM, fluctuations in the equity markets and our AUM affect our revenues. A reduction in the equity markets generally has a negative impact on the level of our AUM and consequently our revenues. Additionally, asset flows, whether inflows or outflows, can be highly variable from month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter. Accordingly, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows are all highly variable. We may also experience fluctuations in our results from quarter to quarter due to a number of other factors, including changes in our operating expenses and unexpected business developments and initiatives. Such variability and unpredictability may lead to volatility or declines in the price of our common stock and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in a future period or particularly meaningful as a basis of comparison against results for a prior period. Access to clients through intermediaries is important to our asset management business, and reductions in referrals from such intermediaries or poor reviews of our investment strategies or our organization by such intermediaries could materially reduce our revenue and impair our ability to attract new clients. Our ability to grow our business relies, in large part, on receiving mandates from the client base of investment consultants, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators, international and regional securities firms, mutual fund providers, third-party distributors and other intermediaries. These intermediaries review and evaluate our investment strategies and our organization. Poor reviews or evaluations of either the particular investment strategies or of our organization may result in client withdrawals or an inability to attract new assets through such intermediaries. The inability to have this access could materially adversely affect our business. We depend on the continued services of our key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend upon the skills, expertise and continued contributions of our key personnel and our management team. The loss of any such personnel, without adequate replacement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Loss of key personnel may occur due to perceived external opportunity for promotion, increased compensation, work environment or other individual reasons, some of which may be beyond our control. Except for our CEO, there are no employment agreements with any other key employees. The loss of services of one or more key employees, or failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, may prevent us from sustaining the performance of our investment strategies, or adversely affect our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients. We do not carry any “key man” insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any key members of senior management, our investment team, or senior marketing personnel. The market for experienced asset management professionals is extremely competitive and is increasingly characterized by the movement of employees among different firms. Compensation levels in the investment management industry are highly competitive and can fluctuate significantly from year to year. Due to the competitive market for asset management professionals and the success achieved by some of our key personnel, the costs to retain key personnel are significant and will likely increase over time. We also anticipate that it will be necessary for us to hire additional key personnel as we further develop our business. Consequently, in our efforts to attract and retain highly skilled individuals, our compensation expense could increase at a level that could adversely affect our profitability. Additionally, we use share-based awards as part of our compensation program and as a means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. A decline in our share price could lessen the effectiveness of retaining employees through share-based awards. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. 15 Table of Contents If our techniques for managing risk are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses. To manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, assess and manage the full spectrum of our risks including market, fiduciary, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. While we believe that our approach to risk management helps us to manage the risks in our business, our risk management methods may prove to be ineffective due to their design or implementation, or as a result of the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information or otherwise. If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation and sanctions or fines from regulators. Our techniques for managing risks in client portfolios may not fully mitigate the risk exposure in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in those portfolios or to achieve positive, risk-adjusted returns. In addition, any risk management failures could cause portfolio losses to be significantly greater than historical measures predict. If approaches to managing those risks prove insufficient, it may expose us to material unanticipated losses in the value of client portfolios, a reduction in our revenues, and a material adverse impact on our business. Our reputation is critical to our success. As a financial services firm, we depend on our reputation of integrity and high-caliber professional services. Any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our AUM. In recent years, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud, conflicts of interest or other misconduct by individuals in the financial services industry, and there is the risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, if an employee were to engage—or be accused of engaging—in illegal or suspicious activities (such as improper trading, disclosure of confidential information or breach of fiduciary duties), we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our business and our authority over the assets we manage as well as our status as a public company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Accordingly, we have adopted and implemented a code of ethics and other related policies and procedures to address such obligations and standards. However, it is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Misconduct by our employees, or even unsubstantiated allegations, could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business. Failure to comply with client requirements and/or guidelines could result in losses, damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. The investment management agreements under which we provide investment advisory services specify certain guidelines or requirements that we are required to observe in the provision of our services. While we maintain various compliance procedures and controls to monitor such guidelines and prevent related errors, a failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in losses to a client or investors in a fund which, depending on the circumstances, could result in our making clients or fund investors whole for such losses. If we believed that the circumstances did not justify a reimbursement, or clients and investors believed the reimbursement offered was insufficient, they could seek to recover damages from us or could withdraw assets from our management or terminate the investment management agreement. Any of these events could harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could lower our net income or negatively impact the portfolios of our clients and may affect the levels of our AUM. Certain client portfolios include securities denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the levels of our AUM. For securities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to those non-U.S. currencies may result in a decrease in the dollar value of our AUM, which, in turn, would result in lower U.S. dollar denominated revenues. Additionally, a limited portion of our clients are billed for management and performance fees in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and the amounts due to us are subject to foreign currency fluctuation. If the currency in which our fees are paid depreciates against the U.S. dollar, our net income could decline. While these risks could be limited by foreign currency hedging, some risks cannot be hedged and there is no guarantee that our hedging activity would be successful. Additionally, hedging would result in additional costs to us. The significant growth we have experienced in recent years may not be indicative of future growth. Our AUM increased from approximately $7.9 billion at June 30, 2009 to approximately $23.2 billion at June 30, 2012, and it represents a significant rate of growth that may be difficult to sustain. The growth of our business depends on, among other things, our success in producing attractive returns in our investment strategies, our ability to expand our distribution capabilities, the overall performance of the equity markets, and our ability to deal with changing market conditions. Our continued growth places significant demands on our legal, compliance, accounting, risk management, administrative and operational resources. Rapid growth in our AUM imposes substantial demands on our legal, compliance, accounting, risk management, administrative and operational infrastructures. We must maintain adequate infrastructure, including technological capacity, backup facilities and sufficient space for expanding staff levels. Furthermore, our future growth will depend on, among other things, our ability to maintain highly reliable operating platforms, management systems and financial reporting and compliance infrastructures that are also sufficiently flexible to promptly and appropriately address our business needs, applicable legal and regulatory requirements and relevant market and operating conditions, all of which change rapidly. Addressing these matters may require us to incur significant additional expenses and to commit additional senior management and operational resources, even during periods when we are experiencing declines in AUM. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our operations efficiently without incurring substantial additional expense or that we will be able to effectively grow our business and AUM, and any failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business. We derive more than 10% of our operating revenue from one client. Pursuant to a strategic relationship with New York Life Investment Management, EIP is the sub-advisor to several mutual funds within New York Life Investment Management’s MainStay group of funds. As such, New York Life Investment Management accounted for approximately 17% of revenues for FY 2012. There can be no assurance that our relationship with New York Life will remain in place. A loss of this client would significantly impact our operating revenues and net income, and we may not be able to establish relationships with other clients in order to replace the lost revenues and net income. Changes in fee levels or asset mix could reduce revenues and margins. Our profit margins and net income are dependent, in significant part, on our ability to maintain current fee levels for the investment strategies that we offer. In recent years, however, in response to market pressures, there has been a trend towards lower fees in the asset management industry and no assurances can be given that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure. Although our investment management fees vary from investment strategy to investment strategy, we compete primarily on the basis of our investment performance and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment 17 Table of Contents returns and client service that incentivize our clients to pay our fees. We cannot be assured that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure. Additionally, a shift in the mix in our AUM from higher revenue-generating AUM to lower revenue-generating AUM may result in a decrease in revenues even if our aggregate level of AUM remains unchanged or increases. Our future results are dependent upon maintaining an appropriate level of expenses, which is subject to fluctuation. Our expenses are subject to fluctuation and may increase for various reasons, including: variations in compensation due to changes in employee staffing levels, mix, or incentive compensation, expenses incurred to support the distribution of our investment strategies, and changes in expenses and costs incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative and operating services infrastructure. We may not be able to adjust our expenses quickly enough to match a significant deterioration in revenues. If we are unable to implement appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may enter into more performance-based fee arrangements with our clients in the future, which could cause greater fluctuations in our revenues. A small portion of our investment advisory revenues is currently derived from performance fees. We earn performance fees under certain client agreements if the investment performance in the portfolio meets or exceeds a specified benchmark. In these instances, we charge a base advisory fee and are eligible to earn an additional performance-based fee or incentive allocation that is calculated as a percentage of investment results in excess of a stated benchmark over a specified period of time. In addition, some performance-based fee arrangements include a high-watermark provision, which generally provide that if a client account underperforms relative to its performance target (whether absolute or relative to a specified benchmark), it must gain back such underperformance before we can collect future performance-based fees. Therefore, if we fail to achieve the performance target or underperform for a particular period, we will not earn a performance fee for that period and, for accounts with a high-watermark provision, our ability to earn future performance fees may be impaired. We earned $5.2 million, $1.8 million and $0.8 million in performance fees during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Performance fees may become more prevalent in our industry. An increase in performance fees, or in performance-based fee arrangements with clients, could create greater fluctuations in our revenues. Expansion into international markets may increase operational, regulatory and other risks. We offer investment management services in many different regulatory jurisdictions globally and intend to continue to expand our operations. As we increase our international business activities and expand our investment strategy offerings, we will face increased operational, regulatory, compliance, reputational and other risks. Additionally, we will likely incur additional costs and expenses. A failure of our compliance and internal control systems to properly mitigate such risks, or of our operating infrastructure to support such international expansion, could result in a loss of clients or inability to attract new clients, regulatory fines or sanctions, damage to our reputation, or other material adverse impacts on our business. We are subject to numerous operational risks which may disrupt our business, result in regulatory action against us, damage our reputation, cause losses, or limit our growth. We face numerous operational risks related to our business on a day-to-day basis. Among other things, we must be able to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process investment transactions and provide reports and other customer service to our clients. Any failure to keep current and accurate books and records can render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental and self-regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients. If any of our financial, portfolio accounting or other data processing systems, or the systems of third parties on whom we rely for information or communication, do not operate properly or are 18 Table of Contents disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, or those of third parties on whom we rely, we could suffer a financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory problems or damage to our reputation. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavors to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that have a security impact. If one or more of such events occurs, it potentially could jeopardize confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to spend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to reputational damage, litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against fully or not covered through any insurance that we maintain. Lastly, we depend on our headquarters, which is located in New York City, for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our headquarters, or an event disrupting the ability of our employees to perform their job functions there, including terrorist attacks or a disruption involving electrical communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, directly affecting our headquarters, may have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Although we have disaster recovery programs in place, there can be no assurance that these will be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses. Insurance coverage may not protect us from all of the liabilities that could arise from the risks inherent in our business. We maintain insurance coverage focused on reducing potential losses related to our operations. We purchase insurance in amounts, and against risks, that we consider appropriate. There can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be completely covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of our existing insurance coverage. If a loss occurs that is partially or completely uninsured, we could be exposed to substantial liability. Insurance costs are impacted by market conditions and our risk profile and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. Renewals of insurance policies may result in additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability. Various factors may prevent the declaration and payment of cash dividends. We have paid a quarterly cash dividend each quarter since the quarter ended December 31, 2007 and have paid special dividends from time to time. However, the payment of dividends in the future is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and various events or factors may prevent us from paying dividends. Our Board of Directors will take into account factors such as general economic and business conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our strategic plans and prospects, working capital requirements and anticipated cash needs, and any legal, contractual or regulatory restrictions. We may pursue strategic transactions that could create risks, present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs, and could dilute the stock ownership of our stockholders. As part of our long-term business strategy, we routinely assess our strategic position, and from time to time address potential transactions, including acquisitions, joint ventures or other transactions aimed at expanding the geography and scope of our operations, and further enhancing our competitive position. We expect to explore partnership opportunities that we believe to be accretive. 19 Table of Contents Any such strategic transactions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, difficulty with integrating personnel and operating infrastructure, and increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Our clients may react unfavorably to any such strategic transaction, we may not realize anticipated benefits, and may be exposed to additional liabilities of any acquired business or joint venture, any of which could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. In addition, strategic transactions may involve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which would dilute our existing ownership. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • difficult global market and economic conditions; • withdrawals by clients of their assets; • poor investment performance; • unanticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • a reduction or termination of the regular dividend; • failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates; • publication of negative research or press reports about us, or our investments or the investment management industry; • departures of key investment or management personnel; • fluctuations in the performance or share price of other investment management companies; • adverse publicity about the asset management industry generally or scandals specifically; • sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur; and • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters. Our officers and directors own a substantial amount of our common stock and therefore exercise significant control over our corporate governance and affairs. Our executive officers and directors control approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock (including exercisable stock options held by them). These shareholders, if they act together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock without approval by the holders of our common stock could adversely affect the rights of common shareholders and could be used as an anti-takeover device. Our charter allows our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock and to determine its rights, powers, and preferences without shareholder approval (“blank check preferred stock”). Future preferred stock issued under the Board’s authority could contain preferences over our common stock as to dividends, distributions, and voting power. Holders of preferred stock could, for example, be given the right to separately elect some number of our 20 Table of Contents directors in all or specified events or an independent veto right over certain transactions, and redemption rights and liquidation preferences assigned to preferred shareholders could affect the residual value of common stock. We could also use the preferred stock to deter or delay a change in control that may be opposed by management. Risks Related to Our Industry We face strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies, many of whom have greater resources and the ability to offer clients a wider range of investment strategies and services than we can offer. We compete with numerous investment management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Some of these institutions have greater capital, marketing and other resources, and offer more strategies and services than we do. Our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the strategies and services we offer. If these competitors are successful, we may lose clients or fail to attract new clients and our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels globally have also resulted in increased competition. In recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation. Further consolidation may occur in the future. The increasing size and market influence of certain competitors may have a negative impact on our prospects for growth and our profit margins in the future. Extensive regulation of our business affects our activities and results in ongoing exposure to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on our ability to conduct our business. The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex regulation. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. The regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us, including U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., have the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on our business. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in censure, fines, suspension of personnel, or the suspension or revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients or impede our ability to obtain new client relationships, which may reduce our revenues. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect clients and other third parties who deal with us and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to modifications and further regulation. New laws, regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our Company and our clients may also adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. In addition, the regulatory environment in which our clients operate may impact our business. For example, changes in antitrust laws or the enforcement of antitrust laws could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity and changes in state laws may limit investment activities of state pension plans. Instances of criminal activity and fraud by participants in the asset management industry, disclosures of trading and other abuses by participants in the financial services industry, and the previously required massive governmental intervention and investment in the financial markets and financial firms have lead the U.S. government and regulators to increase the rules and regulations governing, and oversight of, the U.S. financial system. The cumulative effect of these actions may result in increased expenses, or lower management fees, and therefore, adversely affect the revenues or profitability of our business. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts, and we have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and 21 Table of Contents regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. These policies and procedures may result in increased costs, additional operational personnel, and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to our policies and procedures could result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Specific regulatory changes may also have a direct impact on our revenue. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the asset management industry. These regulatory changes and other proposed or potential changes may result in a reduction of revenue or an increase in expenses associated with asset management. The financial services industry faces substantial litigation risks which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant harm to our reputation. We depend to a large extent on our network of relationships and on our reputation in order to attract and retain clients. If a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging in our business than in other types of businesses. In our business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients which could result in substantial losses to them. If our clients suffer significant losses, or are otherwise dissatisfied with our services, we could be subject to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. Our agreements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. Separately, we may also be subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. The above risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 