Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other written or oral communication made by or with the approval of any of our authorized personnel. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect us, our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Report. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Long-Term Growth Strategy We cannot assure the successful implementation and results of the long-term strategic plan that we announced in July 2007. Our ability to execute our long-term growth plan and achieve our projected results is subject to a variety of risks, including the following: • In June 2007, we announced that we reorganized our Company into five operating segments that aggregate into two reportable segments, Direct Brands and Partnered Brands, and realigned our management structure around this new organization. There can be no assurances that such restructuring and realignment will improve our operations or our results. • As part of our strategic plan, we designated 16 brands for strategic review, which included possible sale, licensing or closure. There can be no assurances that we appropriately identified the appropriate brands for strategic review or that we appropriately valued the assets which we have sold or licensed to third parties. Moreover, we have not closed the previously announced sales of our prAna and ELLEN TRACY brands, and such closings are subject to a variety of closing conditions; accordingly, there can be no assurances that those transactions will in fact close. • Our strategic plan involves a significant expansion of our specialty retail business. The successful operation and expansion of our specialty retail business in our Direct Brands segment is subject to, among other things, our ability to successfully expand the specialty store base of our Direct Brands segment, our ability to successfully find appropriate sites, negotiate favorable leases, design and create appealing merchandise, appropriately manage inventory levels, install and operate effective retail systems, apply appropriate pricing strategies and integrate such stores into our overall business mix. There can be no assurances that we can be successful in this regard, and our inability to successfully expand our specialty retail business would have a material adverse effect on our results. • We have announced a number of initiatives designed to achieve greater collaboration with our wholesale customers and to improve results of the Company’s wholesale-based Partnered Brands. These initiatives include design agreements with Isaac Mizrahi with respect to our LIZ CLAIBORNE brand and John Bartlett with respect to our CLAIBORNE (men’s) brand. Our wholesale customers have been seeking differentiated product and we believe that these design agreements will enable us to distinguish our product offering. However, there can be no assurances that these arrangements will result in improved product or that the resulting products will be acceptable to our wholesale customers or consumers. • The successful implementation of our strategic plan will require us to evolve our supply chain system, including our product development, sourcing, logistics and technology functions, to reduce product cycle-time and costs and meet customer demands and the requirements of the projected growth of our retail-based Direct Brands segment. There can be no assurances that we can be successful in these efforts and our failure to evolve our supply chain capabilities and reduce costs in this area will have a material adverse impact on our business and results. • We previously announced that our structural realignment and other initiatives would yield substantial cost savings, and that we expected such savings would drive operating margin expansion beginning in 2008. There can be no assurances that we can successfully implement the anticipated cost savings as announced on June 20, 2007. 17 • Our strategic plan focuses on building strong brands through increased marketing spending. Our ability to fund such efforts is critical to the success of our strategy. Our inability to fund marketing initiatives appropriate to support our strategic plan will have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve the growth we project in our Direct Brands segment. We cannot assure that we can attract and retain talented highly qualified executives, or maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees, both union and non-union. Our success depends, to a significant extent, both upon the continued services of these individuals, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain additional talented and highly qualified management in the future, including in the areas of design, merchandising, sales, supply chain, marketing, production and systems, as well as our ability to hire and train qualified retail management and associates. In addition, we will need to provide for the succession of senior management. The loss of key members of management and our failure to successfully plan for succession could disrupt our operations and our ability to successfully operate our business and execute our strategic plan. At the 2007 fiscal year end, we had approximately 16,500 full-time employees worldwide. We are bound by a variety of collective bargaining agreements with two unions, covering approximately 1,480 employees, mostly in our warehouse and distribution facilities. We consider our relations with our non-union and union employees to be satisfactory and to date we have not experienced any interruption of our operations due to labor disputes. While our relations with the unions have historically been amicable, the Company cannot rule out the possibility of a labor dispute at one or more of its facilities, particularly in light of facility closings. Any such dispute could have a material adverse impact on our business. The success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends, across multiple product lines, shopping channels and geographies. The apparel and accessories industries have historically been subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends. We believe that our success is largely dependent on our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and taste, across multiple product lines, shopping channels and geographies, in the design, pricing, styling and production of our products and in the merchandising and pricing of products in our retail stores. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to constant change. Also, we must maintain and enhance favorable brand recognition, which may be affected by consumer attitudes towards the desirability of fashion products bearing a “mega brand” label and which are widely available at a broad range of retail stores. We attempt to schedule a substantial portion of our materials and manufacturing commitments relatively late in the production cycle; however, in order to secure necessary materials and manufacturing facilities, we must make substantial advance commitments, often as much as five months prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers for the items to be produced. We need to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings relatively far in advance, while minimizing excess inventory positions, and correctly balance the level of our fabric and/or merchandise commitments with actual customer orders. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles and brands or successfully meet changing customer and consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received and supported by our wholesale customers or consumers. Our failure to gauge consumer needs and fashion trends and respond appropriately, and to appropriately forecast our ability to sell products, could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with substantial outstanding fabric and/or manufacturing commitments, resulting in increases in unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may need to employ markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory, which may harm our business and results. At the same time, our focus on inventory management may result, from time to time, in our not having a sufficient supply of products to meet demand and cause us to lose potential sales. Our business could suffer if we cannot adequately establish, defend and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are significantly important to our success and competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities on a worldwide basis. Counterfeiting of our products, particularly our JUICY COUTURE, LUCKY BRAND and KATE SPADE brands, continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some of our trademarks or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have, in the past, resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurances that the actions taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Moreover, there can be no assurances that in certain countries others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and 18 other proprietary rights or that we will be able to successfully resolve such conflicts. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The loss of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, or the loss of the exclusive use of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, could have a material adverse effect on us. Any litigation regarding our trademarks or other proprietary rights could be time consuming and costly. Our success will depend on our ability to successfully develop or acquire new product lines or enter new markets or product categories. We have in the past, and may, from time to time, acquire or develop new product lines and/or enter new markets or product categories, including through licensing arrangements. This would include our acquisition of KATE SPADE in 2006, our agreement with NARCISO RODRIGUEZ, the license of our DANA BUCHMAN brand to Kohl’s and the sale of our LIZ & CO. and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE brands outside of better department stores. These activities are accompanied by a variety of risks inherent in any such new business venture, including the following: • Our ability to identify appropriate business development opportunities, including new product lines and markets. • New businesses, product lines or market activities may require methods of operations, investments and marketing and financial strategies different from those employed in our other businesses, and may also involve buyers, store customers and/or competitors different from our historical buyers, store customers and competitors. • We may not be able to generate projected or satisfactory level of sales, profits and/or return on investment for a new business or product line, and may also encounter unanticipated events and unknown or uncertain liabilities that could materially impact our business. • We may experience possible difficulties, delays and/or unanticipated costs in integrating the business, operations, personnel and/or systems of an acquired business and may also not be able to retain and appropriately motivate key personnel of an acquired business. • We may not be able to maintain product licenses, which are subject to agreement with a variety of terms and conditions, or to enter into new licenses to enable us to launch new products and lines. • With respect to a business where we act as licensee, such as our licensed DKNY JEANS® and DKNY ACTIVE® brands and our NARCISO RODRIGUEZ brand, there are a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, compliance with terms set forth in the applicable license agreements, including among other things the maintenance of certain levels of sales and the public perception and/or acceptance of the licensor’s brands or other product lines, which are not within our control. Our ability to continue to have the liquidity necessary, through cash flow from operations and financing, may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including the downgrading of our credit rating. Our primary ongoing cash requirements are to fund growth in working capital (primarily accounts receivable and inventory), to invest in our supply chain and information systems, to fund investment in marketing and capital expenditures, and to fund our anticipated retail store expansion, as well as expenditures for in-store merchandise shops and normal maintenance activities. We also require cash to fund potential acquisitions and payments related to earn-out provisions of existing acquisition agreements. In addition, we will require cash to fund any repurchase of Company stock under our previously announced share repurchase programs. Our historical sources of liquidity to fund ongoing cash requirements include cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents and securities on hand, as well as borrowings through our commercial paper program and bank lines of credit (which include revolving and trade letter of credit facilities). We anticipate that cash flows from operations, our commercial paper program and bank and letter of credit facilities will be sufficient to fund our liquidity requirements for the next twelve months and that we will be able to adjust the amounts available under these facilities if necessary. Such sufficiency and availability may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation, our ability to execute our strategy, retailer and consumer acceptance of our products, which may impact our financial performance, maintenance of our investment-grade credit rating, maintenance of financial covenants (as amended) of our debt and credit facilities, as well as interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations. We can not be certain that any additional required financing, whether debt or equity, will be available in amounts needed or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. On August 8, 2007 and September 10, 2007 Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), respectively, completed a review of our credit rating. Moody’s lowered the senior unsecured debt rating to Baa3 from Baa2 and the commercial paper rating to Prime-3 from Prime-2. S&P affirmed our BBB unsecured debt rating and lowered the commercial paper rating to A-3 from A-2. On February 15, 2008, Moody’s placed our Baa3 senior unsecured and Prime-3 commercial paper ratings under review for possible downgrade. There can be no assurance that we will not be further downgraded by either Moody’s or S&P, and any such additional downgrade could adversely impact our ability to obtain financing in amounts needed or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Risks Associated With Competition and the Marketplace The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, both within the United States and abroad. We face intense competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion apparel and accessories producers and retailers. Competition is based on a number of factors, including the following: • Anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • Establishing and maintaining favorable brand name and recognition; • Product quality; • Maintaining and growing market share; • Developing quality and differentiated products that appeal to consumers; • Establishing and maintaining acceptable relationships with our retail customers; • Pricing products appropriately; • Providing appropriate service and support to retailers; • Optimizing our retail and supply chain capabilities; • Size and location of our retail stores and department store selling space; and • Protecting intellectual property. Any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address these competitive factors, could result in reduced sales or prices, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We also believe there is an increasing focus by the department stores to concentrate an increasing portion of their product assortments within their own private label products. These private label lines compete directly with our product lines and may receive prominent positioning on the retail floor by department stores. Our wholesale business is largely dependent on sales to a limited number of large U. S. department store customers, and our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in the retail industry. Our 100 largest customers from both our Direct and Partnered Brands segments accounted for approximately 82% of 2007 wholesale sales (before allowances) from continuing operations (or 67% of net sales from continuing operations). 19 See “Item 1-Business-Sales and Marketing.” Many major department store groups make centralized buying decisions; accordingly, any material change in our relationship with any such group could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our sales. Our dependence on sales to a limited number of large U.S. department store customers is subject to our ability to respond effectively to, among other things, (i) these customers’ buying patterns, including their purchase and retail floor space commitments for apparel in general (compared with other product categories they sell) and our products specifically (compared with products offered by our competitors, including with respect to customer and consumer acceptance, pricing and new product introductions); (ii) these customers’ strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their “private label” initiatives; (iii) these customers’ desire to have the Company provide them with exclusive and/or differentiated designs and product mixes; (iv) these customers’ requirements for vendor margin support; (v) any credit risks presented by these customers, especially given the significant proportion of the Company’s accounts receivable they represent; and (vi) the effect of any potential consolidation among one or more of these larger customers, such as the merger between Macy’s Inc. and The May Department Store Company. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the U.S. and Europe and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to our receivables from that customer. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Our reliance on independent manufacturers could cause delay and loss and damage our reputation and customer relationships. We do not own any product manufacturing facilities; all of our products are manufactured in accordance with our specifications through arrangements with independent suppliers. Products produced in Asia represent a substantial majority of our sales. We also source product in the United States and other regions. During 2007, several hundred suppliers, located in approximately 46 countries, manufactured our products, with the largest finished goods supplier accounting for approximately 4% of the total of finished goods we purchased. A supplier’s failure to manufacture and deliver products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may drive customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our reputation in the marketplace. Also, a manufacturer’s failure to comply with safety and content regulations and standards, including with respect to children’s product and fashion jewelry, could result in substantial liability and damage to our reputation. While we provide our manufacturers with standards and we employ independent testing for safety and content issues, there can be no assurances that we will be able to prevent or detect all failures of our manufacturers to comply with such standards and regulations. We require our independent manufacturers (as well as our licensees) to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us (or any of our licensees), or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s (or licensee’s) labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S., could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our arrangements with foreign suppliers are also subject generally to the risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations and revaluations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, terrorist activities, pandemic disease and, in certain parts of the world, political, economic and currency instability. Our operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date. However, due to the very substantial portion of our products that are produced abroad, any substantial disruption of our relationships with our foreign suppliers could adversely effect our operations. 20 Economic, Social, Political and Regulatory Risks General economic conditions, including a downturn in the economy, may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items and fashion and retail products, which could adversely affect our sales. The industries in which we operate have historically been subject to cyclical variations, recessions in the general economy and future economic outlook. Our results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer spending including but not limited to, general economic and business conditions; consumer confidence; wages and employment levels; the housing market; consumer debt levels; availability of consumer credit; credit and interest rates; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fuel and energy costs; energy shortages; the level of the stock market; taxes; general political conditions, both domestic and abroad; and the level of customer traffic within department stores, malls and other shopping and selling environments. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and at other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we sell our products may materially adversely effect our businesses and our revenues and profits. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used by us in our manufactured apparel and in the price of materials used to manufacture our footwear and accessories could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton, leather and synthetics. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to our customers. Our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. While we generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars, we source most of our products overseas. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies, including currency devaluations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales represented approximately 32% of our total sales in fiscal 2007, and such sales were derived from sales in foreign currencies, primarily the euro. Our international sales, as well as our international businesses’ inventory and accounts receivables levels, could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our international operations, including manufacturing, are subject to a variety of legal, regulatory, political and economic risks, including risks relating to the importation and exportation of product. We source most of our products outside the U.S. through arrangements with independent suppliers in over 46 countries. There are a number of risks associated with importing our products, including but not limited to the following: • Quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements with China and non-WTO countries. These agreements limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from these countries; • Changes in social, political, legal and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; • The imposition of additional regulations relating to imports or exports; • The imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; • Risks of increased sourcing costs, including costs for materials and labor, including as a result of the elimination of quota on apparel products; • Our ability to adapt to and compete effectively in the current quota environment, including changes in sourcing patterns resulting from the elimination of quota on apparel products, as well as lowered barriers to entry; • Significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; 21 • The imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and • The enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations, or executive action affecting international textile agreements, including the United States’ reevaluation of the trading status of certain countries and/or retaliatory duties, quotas or other trade sanctions, which, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries, and the January 1, 2005 elimination of quota, which may significantly impact sourcing patterns (although China has agreed to safeguard quota on certain classes of apparel products through 2008 as a result of a surge in exports to the United States, political pressure will likely continue for restraint on importation of apparel). Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and current business practices. Our ability to realize growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of sales in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets; political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 22 