Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC, in evaluating us and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may impact our business. Our ability to continue to have the necessary liquidity through cash flows from operations and availability under our Amended Facility may be adversely impacted by a number of factors. These factors include the level of our operating cash flows, our ability to maintain established levels of availability under, and to comply with the financial 20 Table of Contents and other covenants included in, our Amended Facility and the borrowing base requirement in our Amended Facility that limits the amount of borrowings we may make based on a formula of, among other things, eligible accounts receivable and inventory and the minimum availability covenant in our Amended Facility that requires us to maintain availability in excess of an agreed upon level. Our primary ongoing cash requirements are to: (i) fund seasonal working capital needs (primarily accounts receivable and inventory); (ii) fund capital expenditures related to the opening and refurbishing of our specialty retail and outlet stores and normal maintenance activities; (iii) fund remaining efforts associated with our streamlining initiatives, which include continued evolution of our distribution strategy, reconfigurations of corporate support functions, consolidation of office space and reductions in staff; (iv) invest in our information systems; (v) fund general operational and contractual obligations; and (vi) potentially repurchase or retire debt obligations. Under the Amended Facility, the aggregate commitments are $350.0 million. Our borrowing availability under the Amended Facility is determined primarily by the level of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory balances. As of December 29, 2012, we had $223.6 million of borrowing availability, no outstanding borrowings and $27.7 million of outstanding letters of credit under the Amended Facility. As a result of a May 2010 amendment to and restatement of our Amended Facility, the maturity date of the Amended Facility was extended from May 2011 to August 2014, provided that in the event that our Convertible Notes are not refinanced, purchased or defeased prior to March 15, 2014, then the maturity date shall be March 15, 2014. If any such refinancing or extension provides for a maturity date that is earlier than 91 days following August 6, 2014, then the maturity date shall be the date that is 91 days prior to the maturity date of such notes. In June 2012, we entered into a further amendment to the Amended Facility. The amendment, among other things, permitted us (i) to issue the Additional Notes, (ii) to pay the consideration for the June 6, 2012 Euro Notes repurchase and the July 12, 2012 Euro Notes redemption and (iii) to fund all or a portion of the KSJ Buyout, subject to certain tests and conditions. We are subject to various covenants and other requirements, such as financial requirements, reporting requirements and negative covenants. We are required to maintain minimum aggregate borrowing availability of not less than $45.0 million and must apply substantially all cash collections to reduce outstanding borrowings under the Amended Facility when availability under the Amended Facility falls below the greater of $65.0 million and 17.5% of the then-applicable aggregate commitments. Our borrowing availability under the Amended Facility is determined primarily by the level of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory balances. If we do not have a sufficient borrowing base at any given time, borrowing availability under our Amended Facility may trigger the requirement to apply substantially all cash collections to reduce outstanding borrowings or default and also may not be sufficient to support our liquidity needs. Insufficient borrowing availability under our Amended Facility would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We currently believe that the financial institutions under the Amended Facility are able to fulfill their commitments, although such ability to fulfill commitments will depend on the financial condition of our lenders at the time of borrowing. While there can be no certainty that availability under the Amended Facility plus cash on hand will be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, based upon our current projections, we currently anticipate that our borrowing availability will be sufficient for at least the next 12 months. Over recent years, the economic environment has resulted in significantly lower employment levels, disposable income and actual and/or perceived wealth, lower consumer confidence and reduced retail sales. Further reductions in consumer spending, as well as a failure of consumer spending levels to rise to previous levels, or a worsening of current economic conditions would adversely impact our net sales and operating cash flows. In addition, the sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of other factors, including, without limitation: (i) factors affecting the level of our operating cash flows, such as retailer and consumer acceptance of our products; (ii) the status of, and any adverse changes in, our credit ratings; 21 Table of Contents (iii) our ability to maintain required levels of borrowing availability and other covenants included in our debt and credit facilities; (iv) the financial wherewithal of our larger department store and specialty retail store customers; and (v) interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations. Also, our agreement with Li & Fung provides for a refund of a portion of the $75.0 million closing payment in certain limited circumstances, including a change in control of our Company, the divestiture of any of our current brands, or certain termination events. The 2009 licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC resulted in the removal of buying/sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung buying/sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we refunded $24.3 million of the closing payment during the second quarter of 2010. The 2011 sales of the KENSIE, KENSIE GIRL and MAC & JAC trademarks resulted in the removal of buying/sourcing for such products sold from the Li & Fung buying/sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we refunded $1.8 million of the closing payment received from Li & Fung in the second quarter of 2012. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a minimum value and a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. In November 2011, in connection with the Company's sale of its LIZ CLAIBORNE brand and certain rights to its MONET brand to JCPenney, the Company entered into an agreement with JCPenney to develop exclusive brands for JCPenney, which included payment to the Company of a $20.0 million refundable advance. The agreement terminated by its terms without being exercised on February 1, 2013, and the $20.0 million advance was refunded to JCPenney on February 8, 2013 pursuant to the terms of the agreement. Should we be unable to comply with the requirements in the Amended Facility, we would be unable to borrow under such agreement, and any amounts outstanding would become immediately due and payable unless we were able to secure a waiver or an amendment under the Amended Facility. Should we be unable to borrow under the Amended Facility, or if outstanding borrowings thereunder become immediately due and payable, our liquidity may be significantly impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, an acceleration of amounts outstanding under the Amended Facility would likely cause cross-defaults under our other outstanding indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, the Euro Notes and the Senior Notes. In 2010, we received $171.5 million of net income tax refunds on previously paid taxes primarily due to a Federal law change in 2009 allowing our 2008 or 2009 domestic losses to be carried back for five years, with the fifth year limited to 50.0% of taxable income. We repaid amounts outstanding under our Amended Facility with the amount of such refunds. As a result of the US Federal tax law change extending the carryback period from two to five years and our carryback of our 2009 tax loss to 2004 and 2005, the IRS has the ability to re-open its past examinations of 2004 and 2005. General economic conditions in the US, Europe and other parts of the world, including a continued weakening or instability of such economies, restricted credit markets and lower levels of consumer spending, can affect consumer confidence and consumer purchases of discretionary items, including fashion apparel and related products, such as ours. The economies of the US, Europe and other parts of the world in which we operate weakened significantly as a result of the global economic crisis that began in the second half of 2008 and which has for the most part persisted since then, with recent signs of modest improvement in the US. Our results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer spending, including, but not limited to: (i) general economic and business conditions both in the US and abroad; (ii) consumer confidence; (iii) wages and current and expected employment levels; (iv) the housing market; (v) consumer debt levels; (vi) availability of consumer credit; (vii) credit and interest rates; (viii) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (ix) fuel and energy costs; (x) energy shortages; (xi) the performance of the financial, equity and credit markets; (xii) taxes; (xiii) general political conditions, both domestic and abroad; and (xiv) the level of customer traffic within department stores, malls and other shopping and selling environments. 22 Table of Contents Global economic conditions over the past few years have included significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income and actual and/or perceived wealth and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. The current unstable economic environment has been characterized by a dramatic decline in consumer discretionary spending and has disproportionately affected retailers and sellers of consumer goods, particularly those whose goods represent discretionary purchases, including fashion apparel and related products such as ours. While the decline in consumer spending has recently moderated, these economic conditions could still lead to continued declines in consumer spending over the foreseeable future and may have resulted in a resetting of consumer spending habits that makes it unlikely that such spending will return to prior levels for the foreseeable future. A number of our markets continue to suffer particularly severe downturns, and we have experienced significant declines in revenues. While we have seen intermittent signs of stabilization in North America, there continues to be volatility in the European markets and there are no assurances that the global economy will continue to recover. If the global economy continues to be weak or deteriorates further, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues, operating margins and earnings across all of our segments. Economic conditions have also led to a highly promotional environment and strong discounting pressure from both our wholesale and retail customers, which have had a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. This promotional environment may likely continue even after economic growth returns, as we expect that consumer spending trends are likely to remain at historically depressed levels for the foreseeable future. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to further decreases in consumer spending. The recent downturn and uncertain outlook in the global economy will likely continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor, marketing and transportation, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers' demands. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. Such factors may be exacerbated by legislation and regulations associated with global climate change. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher prices on to our customers. We cannot assure the successful implementation and results of our long-term strategic plans, including without limitation, our ability to sustain the improved performance of our Lucky Brand business, or our ability to successfully improve the operations and results, creative direction and product offering at our JUICY COUTURE brand. Our ability to execute our long-term growth plan and achieve our projected results is subject to a variety of risks, including the fact that our strategic plan contemplates a continued expansion of our specialty retail business in our KATE SPADE, JUICY COUTURE and LUCKY BRAND segments. The successful operation and expansion of our specialty retail businesses are subject to, among other things, our ability to: (i) successfully expand the specialty retail store base; (ii) negotiate favorable leases; (iii) design and create appealing merchandise; (iv) manage inventory levels; (v) install and operate effective retail systems; (vi) apply appropriate pricing strategies; (vii) integrate such stores into our overall business mix; and (viii) successfully extend these brands into markets worldwide through distribution, licensing or joint venture arrangements or other business models, including in growing markets such as China. We may not be successful in this regard, and our inability to successfully expand our specialty retail business would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In 2012, we continued to closely manage spending and opened 41 retail stores and acquired 21 23 Table of Contents KATE SPADE stores in connection with the KSJ Buyout. We continue to monitor our capital spending and expect to open 80-85 retail stores in 2013. While we have worked to revitalize the JUICY COUTURE product offering, recent results at our JUICY COUTURE business have been challenging. The JUICY COUTURE results have been negatively impacted by a number of factors, including business process and operational issues, primarily related to inventory management, including buying, merchandising, allocation and underperformance of outlets, as well as product issues, including pricing, assortment and the underperformance of certain merchandise categories. We have taken, and will continue to take, actions designed to correct these issues, including implementing changes to JUICY COUTURE's organizational structure and revising JUICY COUTURE's business processes in an effort to improve efficiency and effectiveness. In December 2012, the Company appointed Paul Blum as CEO of JUICY COUTURE. There can be no assurances, however, that our actions will be successful; any continued operational or product issues could have an adverse impact on the operations and results of JUICY COUTURE and our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We continue our efforts, which we began in January 2010, to reposition and drive profitability improvements for LUCKY BRAND. These efforts focus on leveraging LUCKY BRAND's strong brand heritage and ensuring consistent availability of key products and sizes. As part of this effort, in January 2010, we hired current LUCKY BRAND CEO David DeMattei and Creative Director Patrick Wade. While we have seen recent improvement in the brand's performance, there can be no assurances that we will be able to improve LUCKY BRAND's results. The 2011 sales of the global trademark rights to the LIZ CLAIBORNE family of brands and the sale of the trademark rights in the US and Puerto Rico for the MONET brand present risks, including, without limitation, the impact of such transactions on the LIZ CLAIBORNE brand licensing arrangements, our ability to continue a good working relationship with those licensees and possible changes or disputes in our other brand relationships or relationships with other retailers and existing licensees as a result of the transactions. In November 2011, we sold the global trademark rights to the LIZ CLAIBORNE family of brands and the trademark rights in the US and Puerto Rico for the MONET brand. In connection with this transaction, the Company maintains: (i) an exclusive supplier arrangement to provide JCPenney with LIZ CLAIBORNE and MONET branded jewelry; (ii) a royalty free license through July 2020 for the LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK brand, which is sold exclusively at QVC through the 2009 previously existing license between the Company and QVC; and (iii) a royalty-free license through July 2020 to use the LIZWEAR brand to design, manufacture and distribute LIZWEAR-branded products to the club store channel. In connection with the license agreements we entered into in 2009 with JCPenney and QVC, most of our then-existing LIZ CLAIBORNE product licensees began to work with QVC and JCPenney directly. Under our sale transaction with JCPenney, licenses under the LIZ CLAIBORNE family of brands have been licensed back to us. The working relationships established in 2009 will continue with current licensees under the LIZ CLAIBORNE family of brands. Such existing licensees and JCPenney and/or QVC might not be able to successfully work together on the license product categories. In the future, product licensees may make claims that the LIZ CLAIBORNE 2009 brand license arrangements adversely impacted their ongoing ability to sell LIZ CLAIBORNE merchandise. In addition, these transactions may have an adverse impact on sales of our other brands to our US department store customers. We operate in a highly competitive retail environment. Certain of our other US department store customers could still choose to decrease or eliminate the amount of other products purchased from us or change the manner of doing business with us as result of these transactions. Such a decision by a group of US department stores or any other significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 24 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to constantly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends, across multiple brands, product lines, shopping channels and geographies. The apparel and accessories industries have historically been subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends and to levels of discretionary spending, especially for fashion apparel and related products, which levels are currently weak. These industries are also subject to being able to expand business to growing markets worldwide. We believe that our success is largely dependent on our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and tastes across multiple product lines, shopping channels and geographies, in the design, pricing, styling and production of our products and in the merchandising and pricing of products in our retail stores, and in the business model employed, and partners we select to work with, in new and growing markets worldwide. Our brands and products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to constant change. Also, we must maintain and enhance favorable brand recognition, which may be affected by consumer attitudes towards the desirability of fashion products bearing a "mega brand" label and which are widely available at a broad range of retail stores. Our success is also dependent on our ability to successfully extend our businesses into new territories and markets, such as China, Japan and Brazil. We attempt to schedule a substantial portion of our materials and manufacturing commitments relatively late in the production cycle. However, in order to secure necessary materials and ensure availability of manufacturing facilities, we must make substantial advance commitments, which may be up to five months or longer, prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers for the items to be produced. We need to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings relatively far in advance, while minimizing excess inventory positions, and correctly balance the level of our fabric and/or merchandise commitments with actual customer orders. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles and brands or successfully meet changing customer and consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received and supported by our wholesale customers or consumers. Our failure to gauge consumer needs and fashion trends by brand and respond appropriately, and to appropriately forecast our ability to sell products, could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with substantial outstanding fabric and/or manufacturing commitments, resulting in increases in unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may need to employ markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory, which may harm our business and results. At the same time, our focus on inventory management may result, from time to time, in our not having a sufficient supply of products to meet demand and cause us to lose potential sales. We cannot assure that we can attract and retain talented highly qualified executives, or maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees, both union and non-union. Our success depends, to a significant extent, both upon the continued services of our executive management team, including brand-level executives, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain additional talented and highly qualified management in the future, including the areas of design, merchandising, sales, supply chain, marketing, production and systems, as well as our ability to hire and train qualified retail management and associates. In addition, we will need to provide for the succession of senior management, including brand-level executives. The loss of key members of management and our failure to successfully plan for succession could disrupt our operations and our ability to successfully operate our business and execute our strategic plan. We are bound by collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 120 employees at our Ohio Facility and 16 employees at our North Bergen, New Jersey offices. During 2011, we were also party to a collective bargaining agreement covering employees at our distribution facility in Burnaby, Canada, which closed in January 2012; the collective bargaining agreement terminated effective with the closure of this facility. We consider our relations with our non-union and union employees to be satisfactory and to date 25 Table of Contents we have not experienced any interruption of our operations due to labor disputes. While our relations with the unions have historically been amicable, we cannot rule out the possibility of a labor dispute at one or more of our facilities relating to any facility closings, outsourcing or ongoing negotiations with respect to contracts that expire. Any such dispute could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Costs related to withdrawal from a multi-employer pension fund could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. In the second quarter of 2011, we initiated actions to close our Ohio Facility, which was expected to result in the termination of all or a significant portion of our union employees. In the third quarter of 2011, we ceased contributing to a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan (the "Fund"), which is regulated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). Under ERISA, cessation of employer contributions triggers an obligation by such employer for a "withdrawal liability" to such plan, with the amount of such withdrawal liability representing the portion of the plan's underfunding allocable to the withdrawing employer. We incurred such a liability in the second quarter of 2011 and recorded a $17.6 million charge to Selling, general & administrative expenses ("SG&A"), related to our estimate of the withdrawal liability. Under applicable statutory rules, this withdrawal liability is payable over a period of time, and we previously estimated that we would pay such liability in equal quarterly installments over a period of eight to 12 years, with payments anticipated to commence in 2012. In February 2012, we were notified by the Fund that the Fund calculated our total withdrawal liability to be $19.1 million, a difference of approximately $1.5 million, and that 17 quarterly payments of $1.2 million would commence on March 1, 2012, and continue for four years, with a final payment of $1.0 million on June 1, 2016. In light of the Fund's notice, we recorded an additional charge to SG&A in 2011. As of December 29, 2012, the accrued withdrawal liability was $14.3 million, which was included in Accrued expenses and Other non-current liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. We do not believe that this withdrawal liability amount or the schedule of payments will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have experienced delays in our previously announced plan to close our Ohio Facility and transition to Li & Fung for a significant portion of our US distribution operations and have decided to discontinue the transition. While we intend to continue to use the Ohio Facility and have contracted with another third party to operate the facility, there continue to be risks in connection with the operations of our Ohio Facility. In connection with our streamlining initiatives, in July 2011, we announced our plan to close our Ohio Facility in the second half of 2012 and migrate the distribution function to a third party service provider, and that we had entered into a Memorandum of Agreement (the "Agreement") between us and the Chicago and Midwest Regional Joint Board of Workers United (the "Union"), which was ratified by the Union. The Agreement set forth the terms and conditions pursuant to which we had planned to effectuate orderly layoffs of our employees at the Ohio Facility, in connection with the anticipated closure and sale of the Ohio Facility in the fourth quarter of 2012. The Agreement provided, among other things, that the terms and conditions of the collective bargaining agreement between the Company and the Union, effective June 17, 2008 to June 16, 2011, as previously extended to July 16, 2011 by the parties (the "CBA"), were to remain in effect during the expected shutdown of the Ohio Facility, except as such terms are amended by the Agreement. In August 2011, we entered into an agreement with Li & Fung for the provision of distribution services in the United States and at that time we planned to migrate from our Ohio Facility to the Li & Fung facility. 26 Table of Contents In August 2012, we encountered systems and operational issues that have delayed our planned migration of our product distribution function out of the Ohio Facility, resulting in increased operating costs during the second half of 2012. Subsequently, we determined that it would be advisable to discontinue the migration of the product distribution function to Li & Fung, and we mutually agreed with Li & Fung to allow the distribution agreement with Li & Fung to expire as of January 31, 2013. Our current sourcing arrangements with Li & Fung are unaffected by the expiration of the distribution agreement. In connection with such expiration, we decided that, given the complex distribution needs of our businesses, we should continue to use the Ohio Facility, and on February 5, 2013, we entered into a contract with a third-party distribution center operations and labor management company to provide distribution operations services at the Ohio Facility. In addition, the Company has notified the employees covered by the Agreement of the completion of layoffs on March 31, 2013, at which time the Agreement and CBA terminate. The third-party distribution center operations company has informed us that it intends to employ our prior employees, including union employees, at the Ohio Facility. There are a number of risks associated with continuing to operate the Ohio Facility, including increased operating expenses in 2013, risks related to systems capabilities at the Ohio Facility and risks related to the ability of the third-party distribution center operations company to appropriately staff the Ohio Facility with both union and non-union employees on reasonable and appropriate terms. We also have limited ability to control our third-party distribution center operations company, and such company may take actions with respect to its employees without our approval and may not maintain good relations with its employees and unions. Issues that arise in connection with the operation of our Ohio Facility could cause supply disruptions and other logistical issues and could therefore have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our wholesale businesses are dependent to a significant degree on sales to a limited number of large US department store customers, and our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and other ownership changes in the retail industry, financial difficulties at our large department store customers. Many major department store groups make centralized buying decisions. Accordingly, any material change in our relationship with any such group could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our wholesale sales. Our continued partial dependence on sales to a limited number of large US department store customers is subject to our ability to respond effectively to, among other things: (i) these customers' buying patterns, including their purchase and retail floor space commitments for apparel in general (compared with other product categories they sell) and our products specifically (compared with products offered by our competitors, including with respect to customer and consumer acceptance, pricing and new product introductions); (ii) these customers' strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their "private label" initiatives; (iii) these customers' desire to have us provide them with exclusive and/or differentiated designs and product mixes; (iv) these customers' requirements for vendor margin support; (v) any credit risks presented by these customers, especially given the significant proportion of our accounts receivable they represent; and (vi) the effect of any potential consolidation among these larger customers. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our wholesale customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As a result of the recent unfavorable economic environment, we have experienced a softening of demand from a number of wholesale customers, such as large department stores, who have been highly promotional and have 27 Table of Contents aggressively marked down all of their merchandise, including our products. Any promotional pricing or discounting in response to softening demand may also have a negative effect on brand image and prestige, which may be difficult to counteract once the economy improves. Furthermore, this promotional activity may lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season. Promotional activity at our wholesale customers will also often result in promotional activity at our retail stores, further eroding revenues and profitability. We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the US and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to our receivables from that customer. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, the difficult macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit markets could negatively impact our customers and consumers which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We cannot assure that the MEXX business, in which we hold a minority interest, will be successful or that our minority interest in the new entity will not decrease in value. On October 31, 2011, we sold the global MEXX business to a new entity in which we retained a minority interest. Under the terms of such transaction, we have obligations regarding the transitioning of the MEXX business to the new entity, including the requirement that the Company provide certain transition services to the new entity. There are a number of risks associated with such transition, including the potential costs associated with such transition services. Such costs may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The new entity may not be successful in its operation of the MEXX business, and our minority ownership may decrease in value. In addition, we have a number of disputes arising from the sale of the MEXX business. See "Item 3—Legal Proceedings." Our business could suffer if we cannot adequately establish, defend and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are significantly important to our success and competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities. Counterfeiting of our products, particularly our JUICY COUTURE, LUCKY BRAND and KATE SPADE brands, continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some of our trademarks or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have, in the past, resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. However, the actions taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights might not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Moreover, in certain countries others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or we may not be able to successfully resolve such conflicts, or resolving such conflicts may require us to make significant monetary payments. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the US. The loss of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, or the loss of the exclusive use of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, could have a material adverse effect on us. Any litigation regarding our trademarks or other proprietary rights could be time consuming and costly. 28 Table of Contents Our success will depend on our ability to successfully develop or acquire new product lines and enter new markets or product categories. We have in the past, and may, from time to time, acquire or develop new product lines, enter new markets or product categories, including through licensing arrangements, and/or implement new business models (such as the wholesale jewelry model we retain for the sold LIZ CLAIBORNE, DANA BUCHMAN, MONET and KENSIE/MAC & JAC brands and the recently announced KATE SPADE SATURDAY line). Such activities are accompanied by a variety of risks inherent in any such new business venture, including the following: •our ability to identify appropriate business development opportunities, including new product lines and new markets, including important growth markets such as China, Japan and Brazil; •new businesses, business models, product lines or market activities may require methods of operations, investments and marketing and financial strategies different from those employed in our other businesses, and may also involve buyers, store customers and/or competitors different from our historical buyers, store customers and competitors; •consumer acceptance of the new products or lines, and the impact on existing businesses given the new products or lines, including the pricing of such lines; •we may not be able to generate projected or satisfactory levels of sales, profits and/or return on investment for a new business or product line, and may also encounter unanticipated events and unknown or uncertain liabilities that could materially impact our business; •we may experience possible difficulties, delays and/or unanticipated costs in integrating the business, operations, personnel and/or systems of an acquired business and may also not be able to retain and appropriately motivate key personnel of an acquired business; •risks related to complying with different laws and regulations in new markets; •we may not be able to maintain product licenses, which are subject to agreement with a variety of terms and conditions, or to enter into new licenses to enable us to launch new products and lines; and •with respect to a business where we are not the brand owner, but instead act as an exclusive licensee or an exclusive supplier, such as the arrangements within our Adelington Design Group discussed above for the LIZ CLAIBORNE, MONET, DANA BUCHMAN and KENSIE brands, there are a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, compliance with terms set forth in the applicable agreements, the level of orders placed by our business partners and the public perception and/or acceptance of our business partners, the brands or other product lines, which are not within our control. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, both within the US and abroad. We face intense competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion apparel and accessories producers and retailers. Competition is based on a number of factors, including the following: •anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; •establishing and maintaining favorable brand name and recognition; •product quality; •maintaining and growing market share; •exploiting markets outside of the US, including growth markets such as China; •developing quality and differentiated products that appeal to consumers; 29 Table of Contents •establishing and maintaining acceptable relationships with our retail customers; •pricing products appropriately; •providing appropriate service and support to retailers; •optimizing our retail and supply chain capabilities; •size and location of our retail stores and department store selling space; and •protecting intellectual property. Any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address these competitive factors, could result in reduced sales or prices, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We also believe there is an increasing focus by the department stores to concentrate an increasing portion of their product assortments within their own private label products. These private label lines compete directly with our product lines and may receive prominent positioning on the retail floor by department stores. Finally, in the current economic environment, which is characterized by softening demand for discretionary items, such as apparel and related products, there has been a consistently increased level of promotional activity, both at our retail stores and at department stores, which has had an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our reliance on independent foreign manufacturers could cause delay and loss and damage our reputation and customer relationships. Also, there are risks associated with our agreement with Li & Fung, which results in a single foreign buying/sourcing agent for a significant portion of our products. We do not own any product manufacturing facilities; all of our products are manufactured in accordance with our specifications through arrangements with independent suppliers. Products produced in Asia represent a substantial majority of our sales. We also source product in the US and other regions, including approximately 300 suppliers manufacturing our products. At the end of 2012, such suppliers were located in 21 countries, with the largest finished goods supplier at such time accounting for less than 7.0% of the total of finished goods we purchased in 2012. A supplier's failure to manufacture and deliver products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may drive customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our reputation in the marketplace. Also, a manufacturer's failure to comply with safety and content regulations and standards, including with respect to children's product and fashion jewelry, could result in substantial liability and damage to our reputation. While we provide our manufacturers with standards, and we employ independent testing for safety and content issues, we might not be able to prevent or detect all failures of our manufacturers to comply with such standards and regulations. Additionally, we require our independent manufacturers (as well as our licensees) to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While we believe that our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us (or any of our licensees), or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's (or licensee's) labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the US, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. On February 23, 2009, we entered into a long-term, buying/sourcing agency agreement with Li & Fung, pursuant to which Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel and accessories buying/sourcing agent for all brands in our portfolio, with the exception of our jewelry product lines. Pursuant to the 30 Table of Contents agreement, we received at closing on March 31, 2009 a payment of $75.0 million and an additional payment of $8.0 million to offset specific, identifiable, incremental expenses associated with the transaction. We pay to Li & Fung an agency commission based on the cost of our product purchases through Li & Fung. The 2009 licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC resulted in the removal of sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung buying/sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we refunded $24.3 million of the closing payment during the second quarter of 2010. The 2011 sales of the KENSIE, KENSIE GIRL and MAC & JAC trademarks resulted in the removal of buying/sourcing for such products sold from the Li & Fung buying/sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we refunded $1.8 million of the closing payment received from Li & Fung in the second quarter of 2012. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to buy/source a minimum value and a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. Our arrangements with foreign suppliers and with our foreign buying/sourcing agents are subject generally to the risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations and revaluations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, terrorist activities, pandemic disease and, in certain parts of the world, political, economic and currency instability. Our operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date. However, due to the very substantial portion of our products that are produced abroad, any substantial disruption of our relationships with our foreign suppliers could adversely affect our operations. Moreover, difficult macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit markets could negatively impact our suppliers, which in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to a variety of legal, regulatory, political and economic risks, including risks relating to the importation and exportation of product. We source most of our products outside the US through arrangements with independent suppliers in approximately 21 countries as of December 29, 2012. There are a number of risks associated with importing our products, including but not limited to the following: •the potential reimposition of quotas, which could limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from a given country, in the context of a trade retaliatory case; •changes in social, political, legal and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; •the imposition of additional regulations, or the administration of existing regulations, relating to products which are imported, exported or otherwise distributed; •the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges or other trade barriers on imports or exports; •risks of increased sourcing costs, including costs for materials and labor and such increases potentially resulting from the elimination of quota on apparel products; •our ability to adapt to and compete effectively in the current quota environment, in which general quota has expired on apparel products, resulting in changing in sourcing patterns and lowered barriers to entry, but political activities which could result in the reimposition of quotas or other restrictive measures have been initiated or threatened; •significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; •the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and 31 Table of Contents •the enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations, or executive action affecting international textile agreements, including the US reevaluation of the trading status of certain countries and/or retaliatory duties, quotas or other trade sanctions, which, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries. Any one of these or similar factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and current business practices. Our ability to operate and be successful in new international markets and to operate and maintain the current level of sales in our existing international markets, including with respect to the KATE SPADE brand in Japan, China and Brazil and our JUICY COUTURE brand in China, is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; adapting to local customs and culture; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets; political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries, markets or currencies. Any one of these or similar factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and current business practices. Our business and balance sheets are exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. While we generally purchase our products in US dollars, we source most of our products overseas. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies, including currency devaluations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the US dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Our international sales, as well as our international businesses' inventory and accounts receivable levels, could be affected by currency fluctuations. In addition, with expected international expansion at KATE SPADE, JUICY COUTURE, and LUCKY BRAND, we may increase our exposure to such fluctuations. Although we from time to time may hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. A material disruption in our information technology systems and e-commerce operations could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We rely extensively on our information technology ("IT") systems to track inventory, manage our supply chain, record and process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. The failure of IT systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or difficulty in integrating new systems could adversely impact our business. In addition, our IT systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer, network and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and usage errors by our employees. If our IT systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations in the interim. Any material disruption in our IT systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations, as well as our ability to effect the transitions of the recently sold businesses. We are currently executing a transition of our outsourced order management, fulfillment and customer service functions related to each of our brands' e-commerce operations away from our current third-party provider to a new third-party provider. The transition includes certain updates to our current e-commerce platform software and functionality and generally involves a number of other third parties. While the transition from the current provider is scheduled to be effected on a staged, brand-by-brand basis occurring over the next several months and is expected to be completed by the second quarter of 2013, we may not be able to successfully achieve the transition on the timetable currently contemplated, and the transition may not be successful or could encounter various difficulties and unexpected issues. Any 32 Table of Contents delays or issues that we encounter in the transition could have a material adverse effect on the businesses of our brands and could negatively affect our reputation, which in turn could have a material, adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as impair customer confidence in our product offerings and/or overall services for a longer period thereafter. Privacy breaches and liability for online content could negatively affect our reputation, credibility and business. We rely on third party computer hardware, software and fulfillment operations for our e-commerce operations and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. There is a growing concern over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. Despite the implementation of reasonable security measures by us and our third party providers, these sites and systems may be susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally-identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, decline our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. Additionally, as the number of users of forums and social media features on our websites increases, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material posted on our websites by users and other third parties. Finally, we could incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws regarding unauthorized disclosure of personal information and, if we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies. We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft. A growing portion of our customer orders are placed through our e-commerce websites. In addition, a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales require us and other parties involved in processing transactions to collect and to securely transmit certain customer data, such as credit card information, over public networks. Third parties may have the ability to breach the security of customer transaction data. Although we take the security of our systems and the privacy of our customers' confidential information seriously, there can be no assurances that our security measures will effectively prevent others from obtaining unauthorized access to our information and our customers' information. Any security breach could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our website or stores and choose not to purchase from us. Any security breach could also expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, any of which could harm our business. We rely on third parties to provide us with services in connection with the administration of certain aspects of our business. We have entered into agreements with overseas third party service providers, both domestic and overseas, to provide processing and administrative functions over a broad range of areas, and we may continue to do so in the future. These areas include finance and accounting, information technology, human resources, buying/sourcing, distribution functions, and e-commerce. Services provided by third parties could be interrupted as a result of many factors, including contract disputes. Any failure by third parties to provide us with these services on a timely basis or within our service level expectations and performance standards could result in a disruption of our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, to the extent we are unable to maintain these arrangements, we would incur substantial costs, including costs associated with hiring new employees, in order to return these services in-house or to transition the services to other third parties. 33 Table of Contents Our ability to utilize all or a portion of our US deferred tax assets may be limited significantly if we experience an "ownership change." As of December 29, 2012, we had US federal deferred tax assets of approximately $557.4 million, which include net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards and other items which could be considered net unrealized built in losses ("NUBIL"). Among other factors, our ability to utilize our NOL and/or our NUBIL items to offset future taxable income may be limited significantly if we experience an "ownership change" as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in ownership of our stock by "5-percent shareholders" (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. The limitation arising from an "ownership change" under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our US deferred tax assets depends on the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change. We continue to monitor changes in our ownership and do not believe we have a change in control as of December 29, 2012. If all or a portion of our deferred tax assets are subject to limitation because we experience an ownership change, depending on the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change, our future cash flows could be adversely impacted due to increased tax liability. As of December 29, 2012, substantially all tax benefit of the US deferred tax assets has been offset with a full valuation allowance that was recognized in our financial statements. The outcome of current and future litigations and other proceedings in which we are involved may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. On November 27, 2012, Kate Spade LLC received a demand letter from Saturdays Surf LLC, a company that sells surfboards, wetsuits, and men's apparel, alleging that the name of KATE SPADE's new global women's lifestyle brand, "KATE SPADE SATURDAY," infringes the trademark rights of Saturdays Surf LLC. On December 19, 2012, Kate Spade LLC filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking a declaration that its KATE SPADE SATURDAY trademark does not infringe the trademark rights of Saturdays Surf LLC. Saturdays Surf LLC filed an answer and counterclaims on February 7, 2013. On February 13, 2013, Saturdays Surf LLC filed a motion for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction to block us from launching KATE SPADE SATURDAY. On the same day, the District Court denied the motion for a temporary restraining order, allowing the launch to go forward as planned, and set a schedule for expedited briefing, discovery, and hearing on the preliminary injunction motion. The preliminary injunction motion is expected to be heard on April 18, 2013. We are vigorously defending against these claims, and based on our examination of this matter and our experience to date, while there can be no assurances that an adverse decision would not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity or cash flows, we believe we are likely to prevail. We are a party to several litigations and other proceedings and claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. We may in the future become party to other claims and legal actions which, either individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. In addition, any of the current or possible future legal proceedings in which we may be involved could require significant management and financial resources, which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 