1A Risk Factors 18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 2 Properties 28 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 29 Executive Officers of the Registrant 30 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 34 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 58 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 59 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 59 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 59 Item 9B Other Information 59 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 59 Item 11 Executive Compensation 59 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 60 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 60 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 60 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 61 Signatures 67 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule F-1 Exhibit 10(d) Exhibit 10(m)(vi) Exhibit 10(m)(vii) Exhibit 10(y) Exhibit 21 Exhibit 23 Exhibit 31(a) Exhibit 31(b) Exhibit 32(a) Exhibit 32(b) Exhibit 99 2 Table of Contents STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, future filings by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), our press releases, and oral statements made by, or with the approval of, our authorized personnel, that relate to our future performance or future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are indicated by words or phrases such as “intend,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” “expect,” “believe,” “we are optimistic that we can,” “current visibility indicates that we forecast” or “currently envisions” and similar phrases. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding, among other items: • our ability to continue to have the liquidity necessary, through cash flows from operations and availability under our amended and restated revolving credit facility, which may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including the level of our operating cash flows, our ability to maintain established levels of availability under, and to comply with the financial and other covenants included in, our amended and restated revolving credit facility and the borrowing base requirement in our amended and restated revolving credit facility that limits the amount of borrowings we may make based on a formula of, among other things, eligible accounts receivable and inventory; the timing of an anticipated $166.7 million of income tax refunds, which are expected by the end of the first quarter of 2010; the minimum availability covenant in our amended and restated revolving credit facility that requires us to maintain availability in excess of an agreed upon level and whether holders of our Convertible Notes issued in June 2009 will, if and when such notes are convertible, elect to convert a substantial portion of such notes, the par value of which we must currently settle in cash; • general economic conditions in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world; • lower levels of consumer confidence, consumer spending and purchases of discretionary items, including fashion apparel and related products, such as ours; • continued restrictions in the credit and capital markets, which would impair our ability to access additional sources of liquidity, if needed; • changes in the cost of raw materials, labor, advertising and transportation; • our dependence on a limited number of large US department store customers, and the risk of consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and other ownership changes in the retail industry and financial difficulties at our larger department store customers; • our ability to successfully implement our long-term strategic plans; • our ability to effect a turnaround of our MEXX Europe business; • our ability to respond to constantly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends, across multiple product lines, shopping channels and geographies; • our ability to attract and retain talented, highly qualified executives, and maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees, both union and non-union; • our ability to adequately establish, defend and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights; • our ability to successfully develop or acquire new product lines or enter new markets or product categories, and risks related to such new lines, markets or categories; • risks associated with the implementation of the licensing arrangements with J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. and J.C. Penney Company, Inc. and with QVC, Inc. discussed in this report, including, without limitation, our ability to efficiently change our operational model and infrastructure as a result of such licensing arrangements, our ability to continue a good working relationship with these licensees and possible changes in our other brand relationships or relationships with other retailers as a result; • the impact of the highly competitive nature of the markets within which we operate, both within the US and abroad; • our reliance on independent foreign manufactures, including the risk of their failure to comply with safety standards or our policies regarding labor practices; • risks associated with our agreement with Li & Fung Limited, which results in a single foreign sourcing agent for a significant portion of our products; • a variety of legal, regulatory, political and economic risks, including risks related to the importation and exportation of product, to which our international operations are subject; • our ability to adapt to and compete effectively in the current quota environment in which general quota has expired on apparel products but political activity seeking to re-impose quota has been initiated or threatened; • our exposure to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations; • our ability to utilize all or a portion of our US deferred tax assets may be limited significantly if we experience an “ownership change;” and • the outcome of current and future litigations and other proceedings in which we are involved may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 3 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations only and are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in this report in “Item 1A – Risk Factors.” We may change our intentions, beliefs or expectations at any time and without notice, based upon any change in our assumptions or otherwise. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. In addition, some factors are beyond our control. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. WEBSITE ACCESS TO COMPANY REPORTS Our investor website can be accessed at www.lizclaiborneinc.com under “Investor Relations.” Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor website under the caption “SEC Filings” promptly after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish such materials to, the SEC. No information contained on any of our websites is intended to be included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information relating to corporate governance at our Company, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Ethics and Business Practices for all directors, officers, and employees, and information concerning our directors, Committees of the Board, including Committee charters, and transactions in Company securities by directors and executive officers, is available at our investor website under the captions “Corporate Governance” and “SEC Filings.” Paper copies of these filings and corporate governance documents are available to stockholders free of charge by written request to Investor Relations, Liz Claiborne, Inc., 1441 Broadway, New York, New York 10018. Documents filed with the SEC are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. We were incorporated in January 1976 under the laws of the State of Delaware. In this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Liz Claiborne,” “our,” “us,” “we” and “the Company” mean Liz Claiborne, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 1. All references to “Fiscal 2009” represent the 52 week fiscal year ended January 2, 2010. All references to “Fiscal 2008” represent the 53 week fiscal year ended January 3, 2009. All references to “Fiscal 2007” represent the 52 week fiscal year ended December 29, 2007. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. OVERVIEW AND NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS General Liz Claiborne, Inc. designs and markets a global portfolio of retail-based premium brands including JUICY COUTURE, KATE SPADE, LUCKY BRAND and MEXX. We also have a group of department store-based brands with consumer franchises including the LIZ CLAIBORNE and MONET families of brands, MAC & JAC, KENSIE and DANA BUCHMAN and the licensed DKNY® JEANS, DKNY® ACTIVE and DKNY® MENS brands. Our operations and management structure reflect a brand-centric approach, designed to optimize the operational coordination and resource allocation of our businesses across multiple functional areas including specialty retail, outlet, wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel, e-commerce and licensing. For a discussion of our segment reporting structure, see “Business Segments” below. Recent Initiatives The economic environment that we experienced in 2008 and which continued throughout 2009 was characterized by, among other things, a dramatic reduction in consumer spending and substantial tightening of credit markets. Accordingly, our priorities in 2009 included: (i) adapting our Liz Claiborne brand distribution strategies; (ii) further expense reduction and cost structure rationalization; and (iii) securing adequate liquidity. Distribution of Our Liz Claiborne Brands On October 7, 2009, in an effort to revitalize our LIZ CLAIBORNE brand franchise, reduce working capital needs and increase earnings and profitability, we entered into licensing arrangements with J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. and J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (collectively, “JCPenney”) and with QVC, Inc. (“QVC”) for such brands. Our multi-year license agreement with JCPenney granted JCPenney an exclusive right and license (subject to pre-existing licenses and certain limited exceptions) to use the LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ & CO., CLAIBORNE and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE trademarks with respect to covered product categories and included the worldwide manufacturing of the licensed products and the sale, marketing, merchandising, advertising and promotion of the licensed products in the United States and Puerto Rico. Under the agreement, JCPenney will only use designs provided or approved by us. The agreement has a term that may remain in effect up to July 31, 2020. Sales by JCPenney under the agreement are anticipated to commence in August 2010. At the end of year five, JCPenney will have the option to acquire the trademarks and other Liz Claiborne brands for use in the United States and Puerto Rico. JCPenney will also have the option to take ownership of the trademarks in the same territory at the end of year 10. The license agreement provides for the payment to us of royalties based on net sales of licensed products by JCPenney and a portion of the related gross profit when the gross profit percentage exceeds a specified rate, subject to a minimum annual payment. We also entered into a multi-year license agreement with QVC, granting rights (subject to pre-existing licenses) to certain of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. QVC has the rights to use the LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK brand with Isaac Mizrahi as creative director on any apparel, accessories, or home categories in its US and international markets. QVC will merchandise and source the product and we will provide brand management oversight. The agreement provides for the payment to us of a royalty based on net sales. Cost Reduction Initiatives Our cost reduction efforts have included tighter controls surrounding discretionary spending, a freeze in merit compensation increases in 2009, the cessation of our quarterly dividend and streamlining initiatives that have included rationalization of distribution centers and office space, store closures and staff reductions, including consolidation of certain support and production functions and outsourcing certain corporate functions. These actions, in conjunction with more extensive use of direct shipments and third party arrangements, have enabled us to significantly reduce our reliance on owned or leased distribution centers. Including the closure of our Santa Fe Springs, California distribution center in January 2010 and the announced closure of our Lincoln, Rhode Island distribution center, which is expected to occur on or about April 30, 2010, we have closed eight distribution centers since 2007. In connection with the license agreements with JCPenney and QVC discussed above, we expect to further consolidate office space and reduce staff in certain support functions. We anticipate that these actions will be completed by the end of the second quarter of 2010. We will also continue to closely manage spending, with a slight increase in projected 2010 capital expenditures to approximately $85.0 million, compared to $72.6 million in 2009. On January 8, 2010, we entered into an agreement with Laura’s Shoppe (Canada) Ltd. and Laura’s Shoppe (P.V.) Inc. (collectively, “Laura Canada”), pursuant to which up to 38 Liz Canada store leases will be assigned and title for certain property and equipment will be transferred to Laura Canada, in each case, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We expect to recognize a pretax charge of approximately $12.0 million related to this transaction in the first quarter of 2010. 5 Table of Contents Liquidity We enhanced our liquidity by completing the issuance of $90.0 million of 6.0% Convertible Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 (the “Convertible Notes”) in the second quarter of 2009. The Convertible Notes are unsecured, senior obligations; pay interest semi-annually at a rate of 6.0% per annum; and will be convertible, under certain circumstances, into cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares, at our option. The issuance of the Convertible Notes extended the weighted average maturity of our debt and increased borrowing availability under our amended and restated revolving credit facility, since we used the net proceeds from the offering to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings under such facility. In January 2009, we completed an amendment to and extension of our revolving credit agreement, and in May and November 2009, we completed additional amendments to such agreement (as amended, the “Amended Agreement”). Under the Amended Agreement, we are subject to a fixed charge coverage covenant as well as various other covenants and other requirements, such as financial requirements, reporting requirements and various negative covenants. Pursuant to the May 2009 amendment, we are subject to a minimum aggregate borrowing availability covenant. Our borrowing availability under the Amended Agreement is determined primarily by the level of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory balances. In addition, the Amended Agreement requires the application of substantially all cash collected, including any net proceeds received with respect to certain permitted disposals and acquisitions, to reduce outstanding borrowings under the Amended Agreement. The November 2009 amendment provides that through the maturity date of the Amended Agreement, the fixed charge coverage covenant would apply only if borrowing availability under the Amended Agreement falls below certain designated levels. The November 2009 amendment also provides for, among other things, the approval of (i) a grant to JCPenney of an option to acquire the intellectual property and related rights to certain brands in the US and Puerto Rico (see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); (ii) the related sale by the Company to JCPenney of such property and rights; (iii) upon the consummation of such sale, the release of any liens on such property and rights in favor of the lenders under the Amended Agreement; and (iv) certain defined payments, indebtedness and guarantees. For further information concerning our debt and credit facilities, see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources.” By the end of the first quarter of 2010, we expect to receive $166.7 million of income tax refunds on previously paid taxes due to a Federal law change allowing our 2008 or 2009 domestic losses to be carried back for five years, with the fifth year limited to 50.0% of taxable income. As a condition of the Amended Agreement, we are required to repay amounts outstanding thereunder with the amount of such refunds. Based on our forecast of borrowing availability, and subject to the expected timing of the receipt of the anticipated tax refunds, we anticipate that cash flows from operations and the projected borrowing availability under our Amended Agreement will be sufficient to fund our liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. For a discussion of risks related to our liquidity, including our inability to comply with the fixed charge coverage covenant that would be triggered if we fail to maintain the minimum borrowing availabilty requirement under the Amended Agreement, see “Item 1A – Risk Factors,” and “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Sourcing We have also sought to implement supply chain and overhead initiatives that are aimed at driving efficiencies, as well as improving gross margins, working capital and/or operating cash flows. As discussed below in the section entitled “Manufacturing,” we entered into a sourcing agency agreement with Hong Kong-based, global consumer goods exporter Li & Fung Limited (“Li & Fung”), whereby Li & Fung serves as the primary sourcing agent for all brands and products in our portfolio, other than jewelry. For a discussion of certain risks relating to our business, see “Item 1A – Risk Factors.” 6 Table of Contents Business Segments Our segment reporting structure reflects a brand-focused approach, designed to optimize the operational coordination and resource allocation of our businesses across multiple functional areas including specialty retail, retail outlets, wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel, e-commerce and licensing. The three reportable segments described below represent our brand-based activities for which separate financial information is available and which is utilized on a regular basis by our chief operating decision maker to evaluate performance and allocate resources. In identifying our reportable segments, we consider economic characteristics, as well as products, customers, sales growth potential and long-term profitability. We aggregate our five operating segments to form reportable segments, where applicable. As such, we report our operations in three reportable segments as follows: • Domestic-Based Direct Brands segment – consists of the specialty retail, outlet, wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel (including accessories, jewelry and handbags), e-commerce and licensing operations of our three domestic, retail-based operating segments: JUICY COUTURE, KATE SPADE and LUCKY BRAND. • International-Based Direct Brands segment – consists of the specialty retail, outlet, concession, wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel (including accessories, jewelry and handbags), e-commerce and licensing operations of MEXX, our international, retail-based operating segment. • Partnered Brands segment – consists of one operating segment including the wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel, specialty retail, outlet, e-commerce and licensing operations of our wholesale-based brands including: AXCESS, CLAIBORNE (men’s), CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE, DANA BUCHMAN, KENSIE, LIZ & CO., LIZ CLAIBORNE, MAC & JAC, MARVELLA, MONET, TRIFARI and our licensed DKNY® JEANS, DKNY® ACTIVE and DKNY® MENS brands. We, as licensor, also license to third parties the right to produce and market products bearing certain Company-owned trademarks; the resulting royalty income is included within the results of the associated segment. International sales represented 33.0% of our total sales in 2009. Our international operations are subject to the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and consist principally of our MEXX Europe and MEXX Canada operations, as well as the introduction of certain of our US-based brands into Europe, Canada and, to a lesser extent, Asia. See Notes 1 and 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Domestic-Based Direct Brands segment – includes the following brands: JUICY COUTURE Our JUICY COUTURE brand offers luxurious, casual and fun women’s and children’s apparel, as well as accessories and jewelry under various JUICY COUTURE trademarks. JUICY COUTURE products are sold predominately through wholly-owned specialty retail and outlet stores, select upscale specialty retail stores and department stores throughout the US, as well as through a network of distributors and owned and licensed retail stores in Asia, Canada, Europe and the Middle East. In addition, JUICY COUTURE has existing licensing agreements for fragrances, footwear, optics, watches, swimwear and baby products. KATE SPADE Our KATE SPADE brand offers fashion products (accessories, apparel and jewelry) for women and men under the KATE SPADE and JACK SPADE trademarks, respectively. These products are sold primarily in the US through wholly-owned specialty retail and outlet stores, select specialty retail and upscale department stores, through a network of distributors in Asia and through our e-commerce website, as well as through a joint venture in Japan formed in November 2009. KATE SPADE’s product line includes handbags, small leather goods, fashion accessories, jewelry, apparel and fragrances. In addition, KATE SPADE has existing licensing agreements for footwear, optics, tabletop products, paper products and strollers/rockers. JACK SPADE products include briefcases, travel bags and small leather goods. LUCKY BRAND Our LUCKY BRAND offers women’s, men’s and children’s denim and casual sportswear, as well as accessories and jewelry, under various LUCKY BRAND trademarks. LUCKY BRAND products are available for sale at wholly-owned specialty retail and outlet stores in the US and Canada, select department and better specialty stores, through distributors in the Middle East and Asia and our e-commerce website. In addition, LUCKY BRAND has existing licensing agreements for fragrances, neckwear, swimwear, hats and footwear. 7 Table of Contents International-Based Direct Brands segment – includes our MEXX brand. MEXX Our MEXX brand, which is headquartered in the Netherlands, offers a wide range of men’s, women’s and children’s fashion apparel under several trademarks for sale outside of the US, principally in Europe and Canada. MEXX has existing licensing agreements for fragrances, eyewear, watches, bed and bath products, carpets, socks, stationery and footwear. Partnered Brands segment – includes the following brands: LIZ CLAIBORNE FAMILY OF BRANDS AXCESS, fashion-forward men’s and women’s apparel and accessories sold principally in Kohl’s department stores. CLAIBORNE, men’s business-casual apparel and sportswear, accessories and fragrances. CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE, men’s casual separates sold exclusively in JCPenney stores. LIZ & CO, women’s casual apparel and accessories sold exclusively in JCPenney stores. LIZ CLAIBORNE and CLAIBORNE, merchandise in the product categories covered by the JCPenney license will be sold exclusively through JCPenney (subject to pre-existing licenses and certain limited exceptions) in the US and Puerto Rico beginning in August 2010. LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK, women’s career and casual sportswear, in misses, plus and petite sizes, accessories and fragrances. This brand also offers a line of women’s performance wear under the LIZ GOLF trademark. In August 2010, QVC, with Isaac Mizrahi as creative director, will launch the LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK brand for sale on its television network. In addition, LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK will continue to be sold in the US at our owned outlet stores. MONET FAMILY OF BRANDS MARVELLA, a jewelry line sold primarily at Target Corporation stores. MONET, a signature jewelry brand for women sold in department stores as well as in our own outlet stores and online. TRIFARI, a signature jewelry brand for women sold primarily in mid-tier department stores. OTHER BRANDS DANA BUCHMAN, a classic lifestyle collection of women’s sportswear, accessories, intimate apparel and footwear. Pursuant to an exclusive license agreement with Kohl’s Corporation (“Kohl’s”), which names Kohl’s as the exclusive retailer of the DANA BUCHMAN brand, we design the products under the license and Kohl’s leads the manufacturing, production, distribution and marketing of product. However, we continue to source and distribute jewelry under the DANA BUCHMAN brand. MAC & JAC offers modern, fashionable, high-quality apparel for women and men primarily through select specialty and department stores in the US and Canada. KENSIE offers modern, fashionable, high-quality, contemporary apparel for women primarily through select specialty and department stores in the US and Canada. DKNY® ACTIVE, DKNY® JEANS AND DKNY® MENS LICENSES DKNY® ACTIVE offers junior’s, men’s and women’s activewear for sale at department stores, specialty stores and our own outlet stores in the Western Hemisphere, pursuant to the exclusive license we hold to design, produce, market and sell these products. DKNY® JEANS offers junior’s, men’s and women’s sportswear and jeans for sale at department stores, specialty stores and our own outlet stores in the Western Hemisphere, pursuant to the exclusive license we hold to design, produce, market and sell these products. DKNY® MENS offers men’s sportswear apparel for career and casual wear for sale at department stores and specialty stores in the US, Puerto Rico, Mexico and Canada, pursuant to the exclusive license we hold to design, produce, market and sell these products. 8 Table of Contents See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our commitments under our DKNY® ACTIVE, DKNY® JEANS and DKNY® MENS license agreements. Specialty Retail Stores: As of January 2, 2010, we operated a total of 458 specialty retail stores under various Company trademarks, consisting of 285 retail stores within the US and 173 retail stores outside of the US (primarily in Western Europe and Canada). The following table sets forth select information, as of January 2, 2010, with respect to our specialty retail stores: US Specialty Retail Stores Approximate Average Store Specialty Store Format Number of Stores Size (Square Feet) LUCKY BRAND 182 2,400 JUICY COUTURE 65 3,600 KATE SPADE 36 2,000 JACK SPADE 2 700 Foreign Specialty Retail Stores Approximate Average Store Specialty Store Format Number of Stores Size (Square Feet) MEXX Europe 118 4,600 MEXX Canada 39 5,400 LUCKY BRAND Canada 12 2,400 MONET Europe 3 1,100 JUICY COUTURE Europe 1 2,800 Outlet Stores: As of January 2, 2010, we operated a total of 363 outlet stores under various Company-owned and licensed trademarks, consisting of 215 outlet stores within the US and 148 outlet stores outside of the US (primarily in Western Europe and Canada). The following table sets forth select information, as of January 2, 2010, with respect to our outlet stores: US Outlet Stores Approximate Average Store Outlet Store Format Number of Stores Size (Square Feet) LIZ CLAIBORNE 92 9,400 LUCKY BRAND 46 2,900 JUICY COUTURE 33 2,900 KATE SPADE 29 2,100 DKNYÒ JEANS 14 2,800 KENSIE 1 2,500 Foreign Outlet Stores Approximate Average Store Outlet Store Format(a) Number of Stores Size (Square Feet) MEXX Canada 58 5,500 MEXX Europe 43 3,300 LIZ CLAIBORNE Canada (b) 47 4,400 (a) LIZ CLAIBORNE Europe closed its 8 outlet stores during 2009. (b) Up to 38 of the leases for these outlet stores will be assigned to Laura Canada, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, pursuant to the above-noted agreement entered into in January 2010. Concession Stores: Outside of North America, we operate concession stores in select retail stores, which are either owned or leased by a third-party department store or specialty store retailer. As of January 2, 2010, the Company operated a total of 566 concession stores in Europe. 9 Table of Contents The following table sets forth select information, as of January 2, 2010, with respect to our concession stores: Foreign Concessions Concession Store Format Number of Stores MONET Jewelry 270 MEXX Europe 206 LIZ CLAIBORNE Apparel 90 E-Commerce: Our products are sold on a number of branded websites. In addition, we operate several websites that only provide information about our merchandise but do not sell directly to customers. The following table sets forth select information concerning our branded websites: Information and Direct to Website Information Only Consumer Sales www.dknyjeans.com Ö www.jackspade.com Ö www.juicycouture.com Ö www.katespade.com Ö www.kensieclothing.com Ö www.kensiegirl.com Ö www.lizclaiborneinc.com (a) Ö www.lizoutlet.com Ö www.loveisnotabuse.com (b) Ö www.luckybrand.com Ö www.macandjac.com Ö www.mexx.com Ö www.mexx-canada.com Ö www.monet.com Ö (a) This website offers investors information concerning the Company. (b) This website provides information and resources to address domestic violence matters. Licensing: We license many of our brands to third parties with expertise in certain specialized products and/or market segments, thereby extending each licensed brand’s market presence. We currently have 63 license arrangements pursuant to which third-party licensees produce merchandise under Company trademarks in accordance with designs furnished or approved by us, the present terms of which (not including renewal terms) expire at various dates through 2020. Each of the licenses earns revenue based on a percentage of the licensee’s sales of the licensed products against a guaranteed minimum royalty, which generally increases over the term of the agreement. Income from our licensing operations is included in Net sales for the segment under which the license resides. As discussed above, products under our licenses with JCPenney and QVC will be offered beginning in August 2010. 10 Table of Contents The following table sets forth information with respect to select aspects of our licensed brands: Products Brands Baby Buggies/Rockers/Carriers JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE Bed & Bath KATE SPADE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; MEXX Belts AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE Cold Weather Accessories KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LUCKY BRAND Cosmetics & Fragrances BORA BORA; CURVE; JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE; LUCKY BRAND; MAMBO; MEXX; REALITIES Costume Jewelry KENSIE GIRL Decorative Fabrics LIZ CLAIBORNE Denim KENSIE Dress Shirts AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE Electronic Cases JUICY COUTURE Flooring/Area Rugs MEXX Footwear AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE; JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE; KENSIE GIRL; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ CLAIBORNE NY; LIZ CLAIBORNE FLEX; LUCKY BRAND; MEXX Handbags KENSIE GIRL Hard Tabletop KATE SPADE Intimate Apparel/Underwear LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ & CO.; LUCKY BRAND Kids/Baby CLAIBORNE BOYS; JUICY COUTURE Legwear and Socks AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE; KATE SPADE; LUCKY BRAND; MEXX Luggage CLAIBORNE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ & CO. Men’s Accessories AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE Neckwear/Scarves AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE; KENSIE; LUCKY BRAND Optics CLAIBORNE; COMPOSITES – A CLAIBORNE CO; COMPOSITES – A LIZ CLAIBORNE CO; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE; CRAZY HORSE; DANA BUCHMAN; JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ & CO.; LIZWEAR; LUCKY BRAND; MEXX; SIGRID OLSEN Outerwear AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZWEAR; LIZ & CO.; MAC & JAC School Uniforms CLAIBORNE; LIZWEAR Sleepwear/Loungewear AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZWEAR; LIZ & CO.; LUCKY BRAND Stationery and Paper Goods KATE SPADE; MEXX Sunglasses CLAIBORNE; COMPOSITES – A CLAIBORNE CO.; COMPOSITES – A LIZ CLAIBORNE CO.; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE; DANA BUCHMAN; JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZWEAR; LIZ & CO.; LUCKY BRAND; MAC & JAC; MEXX; SIGRID OLSEN Swimwear JUICY COUTURE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ CLAIBORNE WOMAN; LIZ & CO.; LUCKY BRAND; MEXX Tailored Clothing AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE Watches JUICY COUTURE; LUCKY BRAND; MEXX Window Treatments KATE SPADE SALES AND MARKETING Domestic sales accounted for 67.0% of our 2009 and 64.5% of our 2008 net sales. Our domestic wholesale sales are made primarily to department store chains and specialty store customers. Retail sales are made through our own retail and outlet stores. Wholesale sales are also made to international customers, military exchanges and to other channels of distribution. International sales accounted for 33.0% of 2009 net sales, as compared to 35.5% in 2008. In Europe, wholesale sales are made primarily to department store and specialty store customers, while retail sales are made through concession stores within department store locations, as well as our own retail and outlet stores. In Canada, wholesale sales are made primarily to department store chains and specialty stores, and retail sales are made through our own retail and outlet stores. In other international markets, including Asia, the Middle East and Central and South America, we operate principally through third party licensees, virtually all of which purchase products from us for re-sale at freestanding retail stores and dedicated department store shops they operate. We also sell to distributors who resell our products in these territories. 11 Table of Contents Wholesale sales (before allowances) to our 100 largest customers accounted for 74.0% of 2009 wholesale sales (before allowances) (or 53.2% of net sales), as compared to 70.6% of 2008 wholesale sales (before allowances) (or 53.9% of net sales). No single customer accounted for more than 7.2% of wholesale sales (before allowances) for 2009 and 2008, (or 5.1% of net sales for 2009 and 2008), except for Macy’s, Inc., which accounted for 13.0% and 13.5% of wholesale sales (before allowances) for 2009 and 2008, respectively, or 9.3% and 10.3% of net sales for 2009 and 2008, respectively (see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Many major department store groups make centralized buying decisions; accordingly, any material change in our relationship with any such group could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our wholesale sales. Sales to our domestic department and specialty store customers are made primarily through our New York City showrooms. Internationally, sales to our department and specialty store customers are made through several of our showrooms, including those in the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Canada and the United Kingdom. For further information concerning our domestic and international sales, see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview.” Orders from our customers generally precede the related shipping periods by several months. Our largest customers discuss with us retail trends and their plans regarding their anticipated levels of total purchases of our products for future seasons. These discussions are intended to assist us in planning the production and timely delivery of our products. We continually monitor retail sales in order to directly assess consumer response to our products. We utilize in-stock reorder programs in several divisions to enable customers to reorder certain items through electronic means for quick delivery, as discussed below in the section entitled “Manufacturing.” Many of our customers participate in our in-stock reorder programs through their own internal replenishment systems. During 2009, we continued our domestic in-store sales, marketing and merchandising programs designed to encourage multiple item regular price sales, build one-on-one relationships with consumers and maintain our merchandise presentation standards. These programs train sales associates on suggested selling techniques, product, merchandise presentation and client development strategies and are offered for many of our brands, including JUICY COUTURE, KATE SPADE, LIZ CLAIBORNE and LUCKY BRAND and our licensed DKNY® JEANS brand. In 2009, we continued the expansion of our domestic in-store shop and fixture programs, which is designed to enhance the presentation of our products on department store selling floors generally through the use of proprietary fixturing, merchandise presentations and graphics. In-store shops operate under the following brand names: AXCESS, DKNY® JEANS, DKNY® MENS, JACK SPADE, JUICY COUTURE, KATE SPADE, KENSIE, KENSIE GIRL, LUCKY BRAND and MEXX. Our accessories operations also offer an in-store shop and fixture program. In 2009, we installed an aggregate of 203 in-store shops, including 122 LIZ CLAIBORNE and 3 CLAIBORNE in-store shops which are expected to close in 2010 as a result of the JCPenney license agreement. We plan to install an aggregate of 127 additional in-store shops in 2010. We spent $92.6 million on advertising, marketing and promotion expenditures for all of our brands in 2009, including $36.8 million on national advertising, compared to aggregate advertising, marketing and promotion expenditures in 2008 of $135.4 million, including $57.7 million on national advertising. MANUFACTURING Pursuant to a sourcing agency agreement, Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel and accessories sourcing agent for all brands in our portfolio, with the exception of our jewelry product lines. Pursuant to the agreement, we received a payment of $75.0 million at closing and an additional payment of $8.0 million in the second quarter of 2009 to offset specific, incremental, identifiable expenses associated with the transaction. Our agreement with Li & Fung provides for a refund of a portion of the closing payment in certain limited circumstances, including a change of control of the Company, the sale or discontinuation of any current brand, or certain termination events. We are also obligated to use Li & Fung as our sourcing agent for a minimum value of inventory purchases each year through the termination of the agreement in 2019. The licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC will result in the removal of sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we are required to refund $24.3 million of the closing payment received from Li & Fung, payable on or before April 15, 2010, with applicable late fees if paid after that date. Such amount was included in Accrued expenses at January 2, 2010. We pay to Li & Fung an agency commission based on the cost of product purchases using Li & Fung as our sourcing agent. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. Products produced in Asia represent a substantial majority of our purchases. We also source product in the US and other regions. During 2009, several hundred suppliers located in approximately 44 countries manufactured our products, with the largest finished goods supplier accounting for less than 6.0% of the total of finished goods we purchased. Purchases from our suppliers are processed utilizing individual purchase orders specifying the price and quantity of the items to be produced. 12 Table of Contents Most of our products are purchased as completed product “packages” from our manufacturing contractors, where the contractor purchases all necessary raw materials and other product components, according to our specifications. When we do not purchase “packages,” we obtain fabrics, trimmings and other raw materials in bulk from various foreign and domestic suppliers, which are delivered to our manufacturing contractors for use in our products. We do not have any long-term, formal arrangements with any supplier of raw materials. To date, we have experienced little difficulty in satisfying our raw material requirements and consider our sources of supply adequate. We operate under substantial time constraints in producing each of our collections. In order to deliver, in a timely manner, merchandise which reflects current tastes, we attempt to schedule a substantial portion of our materials and manufacturing commitments relatively late in the production cycle, thereby favoring suppliers able to make quick adjustments in response to changing production needs and in time to take advantage of favorable (cost effective) shipping alternatives. However, in order to secure necessary materials and to schedule production time at manufacturing facilities, we must make substantial advance commitments, often up to five months prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers for the items to be produced. We continue to seek to reduce the time required to move products from design to the customer. If we misjudge our ability to sell our products, we could be faced with substantial outstanding fabric and/or manufacturing commitments, resulting in excess inventories. See “Item 1A – Risk Factors.” Our arrangements with Li & Fung and with our foreign suppliers are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations and revaluations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, terrorist activities, pandemic disease and, in certain parts of the world, political, economic and currency instability. Our operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date. However, due to the very substantial portion of our products that are produced abroad, any substantial disruption of our relationships with our foreign suppliers could adversely affect our operations. In addition, as Li & Fung is the sourcing agent for a significant portion of our products, we are subject to the risk of having to rebuild such sourcing capacity or find another agent or agents to replace Li & Fung in the event the agreement with Li & Fung terminates, or if Li & Fung is unable to fulfill its obligations under the agreement. In addition, as we rely on independent manufacturers, a manufacturer’s failure to ship product to us in a timely manner, or to meet quality or safety standards, could cause us to miss delivery dates to our customers. Failure to make deliveries could cause customers to cancel orders, refuse deliveries or seek reduced prices, all of which could have a material adverse affect on us. We maintain internal staff responsible for overseeing product safety compliance, irrespective of our agency agreement with Li & Fung. Additionally, we are a certified and validated member of the United States Customs and Border Protection’s Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (“C-TPAT”) program and expect all of our suppliers shipping to the United States to adhere to our C-TPAT requirements, including standards relating to facility security, procedural security, personnel security, cargo security and the overall protection of the supply chain. In the event a supplier does not comply with our C-TPAT requirements, or if we determine that the supplier will be unable to correct a deficiency, we may terminate our business relationship with the supplier. IMPORTS AND IMPORT RESTRICTIONS Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the United States, Canada and Europe is subject to duties. The United States may unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries) in such increased quantities as to cause (or threaten) serious damage to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as “anti-dumping” actions). Furthermore, additional duties, generally known as countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the US Government to offset subsidies provided by a foreign government to foreign manufacturers if the importation of such subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a US industry. Legislative proposals have been put forward which, if adopted, would treat a manipulation by China of the value of its currency as actionable under the antidumping or countervailing duty laws. On January 26, 2010, the US Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) began enforcement of a new import regulation of Importer Security Filing (“ISF”) and Additional Carrier Requirements – also known as the “10+2 rule.” This new rule requires both importers and carriers to submit additional cargo information before the cargo is loaded onto an ocean vessel bound for the United States. CBP’s goal is to: (i) improve the ability to identify high-risk shipments; (ii) prevent smuggling and ensure cargo safety and security; (iii) strengthen security precautions aimed at preventing terrorists’ weapons from potentially being transported into the US; and (iv) fulfill the requirements of the SAFE Port Act of 2006. All importers were required to comply with this rule and to have an effective process in place for submitting filings. Incorrect or late filings or failure to file result in the imposition of penalties on the importer and/or delays in the loading or release of cargo. Throughout 2009, ISF transmissions for filings were tested and a corporate process was put into effect in the last half of 2009 in advance of regulation requirement. 13 Table of Contents We are also subject to other international trade agreements and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Central American Free Trade Agreement and the Caribbean Basin Initiative and other “special trade programs.” Each of the countries in which our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports. Because the US and the other countries into which our products are imported and sold may, from time to time, impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges or other import controls or restrictions, including the imposition of “safeguard quota,” “safeguard duties,” or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates or levels on products being imported from other countries, we maintain a program of intensive monitoring of import restrictions and opportunities. We strive to reduce our potential exposure to import related risks through, among other things, adjustments in product design and fabrication and shifts of production among countries and manufacturers. In light of the very substantial portion of our products that is manufactured by foreign suppliers, the enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations, executive action affecting textile agreements, or changes in sourcing patterns or quota provisions, could adversely affect our operations. Although we generally expect that the elimination of quota will result, over the long term, in an overall reduction in the cost of apparel produced abroad, the implementation of any “safeguard quota provisions,” “countervailing duties,” any “anti-dumping” actions or any other actions impacting international trade may result, over the near term, in cost increases for certain categories of products and in disruption of the supply chain for certain product categories. See “Item 1A – Risk Factors.” Apparel and other products sold by us are also subject to regulation in the US and other countries by other governmental agencies, including, in the US, the Federal Trade Commission, US Fish and Wildlife Service and the Consumer Products Safety Commission. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, content and safety requirements, licensing requirements and flammability testing. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with those regulations, as well as applicable federal, state, local, and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in the current year or in the near future. Our licensed products and licensing partners are also subject to regulation. Our agreements require our licensing partners to operate in compliance with all laws and regulations and we are not aware of any violations which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial position, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. Although we have not suffered any material inhibition from doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce additional trademarks to new markets. DISTRIBUTION We distribute a substantial portion of our products through leased facilities. Our principal distribution facilities are located in Ohio, the Netherlands and California, as discussed in “Item 2 – Properties.” BACKLOG On February 12, 2010, our order book reflected unfilled customer orders for approximately $480.6 million of merchandise, as compared to approximately $640.0 million at February 13, 2009. These orders represent our order backlog. The amounts indicated include both confirmed and unconfirmed orders, which we believe, based on industry practice and our past experience, will be confirmed. We expect that substantially all such orders will be filled within the 2010 fiscal year. We note that the amount of order backlog at any given date is materially affected by a number of factors, including seasonality, the mix of product, the timing of the receipt and processing of customer orders and scheduling of the manufacture and shipping of the product, which in some instances is dependent on the desires of the customer. Accordingly, order book data should not be taken as providing meaningful period-to-period comparisons. However, the decline in the value of unfilled customer orders reflects (i) general economic conditions and (ii) the reduction in wholesale operations related to exiting the department store distribution for our Liz Claiborne brands as we transition to license arrangements for this family of brands. TRADEMARKS We own most of the trademarks used in connection with our businesses and products. We also act as licensee of certain trademarks owned by third parties. 14 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the principal trademarks we own and/or use in connection with our businesses and products: Owned Trademarks AXCESS LIZ BIRD BY JUICY COUTURE LIZ & CO (a) BORA BORA LIZ CLAIBORNE (a) CLAIBORNE (a) LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK (c) CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE (a) LUCKY BRAND COUTURE COUTURE LUCKY YOU LUCKY BRAND CURVE MAC & JAC DANA BUCHMAN (b) MARVELLA DIRTY ENGLISH MEXX JACK SPADE MONET JUICY COUTURE REALITIES KATE SPADE SIGRID OLSEN KENSIE TRIFARI Licensed Trademarks DKNYÒ ACTIVE DKNYÒ JEANS DKNYÒ MENS (a) As discussed above, JCPenney will become the exclusive department store destination in the US and Puerto Rico for LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ & CO., CLAIBORNE and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE merchandise in the product categories covered by the JCPenney license agreement (which is subject to pre-existing license agreements) for up to ten years, beginning in August 2010. JCPenney has an option to purchase these trademarks under certain circumstances. (b) As discussed above, Kohl’s is the exclusive retailer for our DANA BUCHMAN brand, pursuant to an exclusive license agreement. (c) As discussed above, QVC will become the exclusive specialty retailer for LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK merchandise in the product categories covered by the QVC license agreement (which is subject to pre-existing license agreements) in the US beginning in August 2010. In addition, we own and/or use many other logos and secondary trademarks, such as the JUICY COUTURE crest and the LUCKY BRAND clover mark, associated with the above mentioned trademarks. We have registered, or applied for registration of, a multitude of trademarks throughout the world, including those referenced above, for use on a variety of apparel and apparel-related products, including accessories, home furnishings, cosmetics and jewelry, as well as for retail services. We regard our trademarks and other proprietary rights as valuable assets and believe that they have significant value in the marketing of our products. We vigorously protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights against infringement. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks are used in connection with the related products and services and the required registration renewals are filed. We regard the license to use the trademarks and our other proprietary rights in and to the trademarks as valuable assets in marketing our products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. As a result of the appeal of our brands, our products have from time to time been the object of counterfeiting. We have implemented an enforcement program, which we believe has been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in the US and in major markets abroad. In markets outside of the US, our rights to some or all of our trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of our international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks, which would impede our use and registration of some of our principal trademarks. While such conflicts are common and may arise again from time to time as we continue our international expansion, we have generally successfully resolved such conflicts in the past through both legal action and negotiated settlements with third-party owners of the conflicting marks. Although we have not in the past suffered any material restraints or restrictions on doing business in desirable markets or in new product categories, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce additional brands to new markets. 15 Table of Contents COMPETITION Notwithstanding our position as one of the largest fashion apparel and related accessories companies in the US, we are subject to intense competition as the apparel and related product markets are highly competitive, both within the US and abroad. We compete with numerous retailers, designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories, both domestic and foreign. We compete primarily on the basis of fashion, quality and price and our ability to compete successfully depends upon a variety of factors, including, among other things, our ability to: • anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • develop quality and differentiated products that appeal to consumers; • appropriately price products; • establish and maintain favorable brand name and recognition; • maintain and grow market share; • establish and maintain acceptable relationships with our retail customers; • provide appropriate service and support to retailers; • provide effective marketing support and brand promotion; • appropriately determine the size and identify the location of our retail stores and department store selling space; • protect our intellectual property; and • optimize our retail and supply chain capabilities. See “Item 1A – Risk Factors.” Within our retail-focused Domestic-Based Direct Brands segment, our principal competitors vary by brand and include the following: • For JUICY COUTURE: Marc by Marc Jacobs, Theory, Twisted Hearts, Abercrombie & Fitch and Coach • For LUCKY BRAND: Diesel, Guess, True Religion, 7 for all Mankind and Free People • For KATE SPADE: Coach, Cole Haan, Marc by Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors and Tory Burch The principal competitors of our retail-focused International-Based Direct Brands segment include Esprit, Zara, Marc O’Polo, S. Oliver, H&M, Tommy Hilfiger, InWear/Matinique and other global European brands. Our principal competitors in the United States for the majority of the wholesale-based Partnered Brands segment (LIZ CLAIBORNE and MONET families of brands and our licensed DKNY® JEANS, DKNY® ACTIVE and DKNY® MENS brands) include Jones Apparel Group, Inc. and Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation, as well as department store private label brands. EMPLOYEES At January 2, 2010, we had approximately 11,500 full-time employees worldwide, as compared to approximately 15,000 full-time employees at January 3, 2009. In the US and Canada, we are bound by the following collective bargaining agreements: Number of Union Employees Expiration Location Chicago and Midwest Regional Joint Board, Workers United 305 June 2011 West Chester, Ohio New England Joint Board, UNITE HERE 90 May 2012 Lincoln, Rhode Island (a) Industrial Professional and Technical Workers International Union 89 May 2010 Santa Fe Springs, California (b) Western States Regional Joint Board, Workers United (c) 85 May 2012 Vernon, California Affiliates of Workers United 62 May 2011 Montreal, Quebec (d) Locals 10 and 23-25, New York Metropolitan Area Joint Board, Workers United and Local 99, Metropolitan Distribution and Trucking Joint Board, Workers United (c) 31 May 2012 New York, New York and North Bergen, New Jersey Affiliates of Workers United 7 May 2010 Burnaby, British Columbia (a) This facility is expected to be closed on or about April 30, 2010. (b) This facility was closed in January of 2010. (c) Subject to renegotiation on each of the first and second anniversaries of the effective date. (d) Excludes a bargaining unit of 15 employees that has not agreed upon a first collective bargaining agreement. The Union has invoked its rights under the labor laws governing the province to refer the matter to mediation, and failing agreement, final and binding arbitration. 16 Table of Contents While relations between us and these unions have historically been amicable, and we do not anticipate an economic dispute when the contracts reopen or expire, we cannot rule out the possibility of a labor dispute at one or more of these facilities. The local or regional unions affiliated with Workers United were previously affiliated with UNITE HERE but disaffiliated from UNITE HERE during 2009. These two unions are engaged in extensive litigation against each other. We believe we have complied with our contractual commitments and statutory obligations and currently have no disputes with either union. However, we may in the future be involved in disputes as a result of the ongoing litigation between the unions. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to responsible corporate citizenship and giving back to our communities through a variety of avenues and have several programs in place that support this commitment. Monitoring Global Working Conditions We are committed to taking the actions we believe are necessary to ensure that our products are made in contracted factories with fair and decent working conditions. We continue this commitment as we operate under our sourcing arrangement with Li & Fung, collaborating with Li & Fung to develop mutually acceptable audit documents and processes, training the Li & Fung audit staff on our compliance program and communicating our standards to Li & Fung suppliers and their workers. The major components of our compliance program are: (i) communicating our Standards of Engagement to workers, suppliers and associates; (ii) auditing and monitoring against those standards; (iii) providing workers with a confidential reporting channel; (iv) working with non-governmental organizations; and, most recently, (v) working closely with factory management to develop sustainable compliance programs. Suppliers are required to post our Standards of Engagement in the workers’ native language at all factories where our merchandise is being made. We have used various methods to educate workers regarding our standards and their rights, including development of booklets to better illustrate those standards and involving non-governmental organizations to train workers. The Standards of Engagement, along with detailed explanations of each standard, are included in our suppliers’ website. All new suppliers must acknowledge our standards and agree to our monitoring requirements. Additionally, in 2009, the Liz Claiborne and the Li & Fung compliance teams began holding supplier conferences in person and via teleconference to review our Standards of Engagement and monitoring requirements. We have been a participating company in the Fair Labor Association (“FLA”) since its inception. The FLA is a collaborative effort comprised of socially responsible companies, colleges and universities and civil society organizations whose collective purpose is to improve working conditions at factories around the world. The FLA has developed a Workplace Code of Conduct, based on International Labor Organization standards and has created benchmarks to monitor adherence to those standards, or to perform remediation. Its monitoring program is a brand accountability system that places responsibility on companies to voluntarily achieve desired workplace standards in factories manufacturing their goods. In May 2005, we were in the first group of six companies accredited by the FLA, and we were reaccredited in June 2008. Re-accreditation signifies that we continue to focus our labor compliance program around FLA standards, benchmarks and protocols and have met the requirements of FLA participation. As of January 2, 2010, we had approximately 470 active factories on our roster. A total of approximately 360 were subject to audits conducted by our internal auditors, Li & Fung auditors or external auditors. In many cases, we will be relying on our agents’ audit reports. As such, we will be conducting shadow audits to confirm that audit protocols and findings are consistent between the two companies. Additionally, as a participating company in the FLA, our suppliers’ factories are also subject to independent, unannounced audits by accredited FLA monitors. We are aware that auditing only confirms compliance at the time of the audit, and we continue to look for ways to improve our monitoring program and work with suppliers to create sustainable compliance at their factories. Creating workers’ awareness and establishing a channel of communication for reporting issues of non-compliance are two important steps. We have begun to focus on programs which generally concentrate on educating workers on their rights and coaching factory management to create effective internal grievance procedures. For several high risk factories in China, we have collaborated with a local non-governmental organization to provide workers’ rights training. 17 Table of Contents Philanthropic Programs We have a number of philanthropic programs that support the nonprofit sector in our major operating communities and beyond. • The Liz Claiborne Foundation, established in 1981, is a separate nonprofit legal entity supporting nonprofit organizations working with women to achieve economic independence. The Foundation supports programs in the US communities where our primary offices are located that offer essential job readiness training and increase access to tools that help women, including those affected by domestic violence, transition from poverty into successful independent living. • Liz Claiborne Associates Committed to Service (“LizACTS”) is our company-wide volunteer program that allows our associates to work collectively to respond to community needs. Our associates identify and design volunteer projects through community organizations to address the pressing needs of women and families. LizACTS teams typically coordinate volunteer activities under the general program areas of HIV/AIDS, health, the environment, homelessness, women’s issues and the needs of youth. Thousands of associates and executives join together, along with their families and friends, to contribute their time and talents. • The Merchandise Donation Program provides direct charitable support to meet community needs, primarily in the form of merchandise donations and limited monetary contributions. We donate product, samples, fixtures and furniture to several types of organizations, including clothing banks, programs for women and certain charitable interests of our associates. • The Matching Gift Program supports and encourages the charitable interests of our associates. Our flexible program matches associates’ gifts in the areas of arts, health and safety, education, human services, the environment and contributions to organizations where associates serve as voluntary board members. • The Liz Claiborne, Inc. Scholarship Program provides one-time scholarships to children of our associates who have demonstrated outstanding academic achievement. We awarded 45 scholarships in the program’s first five years. • Love Is Not Abuse is a long-term campaign that uses our corporate profile and influence to advocate anti-violence messages to the general public. One of the first major corporate programs in the US to take a stand on the issue of domestic violence, Love is Not Abuse has targeted everyday Americans who, with the right tools and information, can help prevent violent relationships. This program is focused on providing educational resources to help young boys and girls, teenagers, educators, parents, corporate executives and employees learn what they can do, individually and collectively, to curtail abuse. Environmental Initiatives We are committed to a long-term sustainable approach to caring for and safeguarding the environment. As such, we endeavor to balance environmental considerations and social responsibility with our business goals, consistently evolving and implementing our Corporate Environmental Policy, in addition to complying with environmental laws and regulations. Our current sustainability policy focuses on three major components – reducing waste, reusing and recycling – to help minimize our impact on the environment and achieve our environmental objectives (additional details are available on our website). As our business, the economy, and the environment in which we operate evolve, we will remain aware of the impact our actions have on the environment and revise and enhance our corporate environmental strategy, as appropriate. Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC, in evaluating the Company and its business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may impact our business. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to continue to have the liquidity necessary, through cash flows from operations and availability under our amended and restated revolving credit facility, may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including the level of our operating cash flows, our ability to maintain established levels of availability under, and to comply with the financial and other covenants included in, our amended and restated revolving credit facility and the borrowing base requirement in our amended and restated revolving credit facility that limits the amount of borrowings we may make based on a formula of, among other things, eligible accounts receivable and inventory; the timing of an anticipated $166.7 million of income tax refunds, which are expected by the end of the first quarter of 2010; the minimum availability covenant in our amended and restated revolving credit facility that requires us to maintain availability in excess of an agreed upon level and whether holders of our Convertible Notes issued in June 2009 will, if and when such notes are convertible, elect to convert a substantial portion of such notes, the par value of which we must currently settle in cash. Our primary ongoing cash requirements are to: (i) fund seasonal working capital needs (primarily accounts receivable and inventory); (ii) fund capital expenditures related to the opening and refurbishing of our specialty and outlet stores and normal maintenance activities; (iii) fund remaining efforts associated with our streamlining initiatives, which include consolidation of office space and distribution centers and reductions in staff; (iv) invest in our information systems; and (v) fund operational and contractual obligations, including the refund payable to Li & Fung discussed below. We also require cash to fund payments related to outstanding earn-out provisions of certain of our previous acquisitions. In January 2009, we completed the amendment and extension of our revolving credit agreement (the “Amended Agreement”), which was previously scheduled to expire in October 2009, with the Amended Agreement expiring in May 2011. On November 2, 2009, we completed a third amendment to our Amended Agreement, which (i) provides that through the maturity date of the Amended Agreement, the fixed charge coverage covenant will be in effect only when availability under the amended and restated revolving credit facility fails to exceed $75.0 million on any date on or after the first day of the October fiscal month and prior to the first day of the December fiscal month, $120.0 million on any date from December 15 of a calendar year through January 30 of the following year or $90.0 million on any other date; (ii) amends the prepayment requirements whereby any net proceeds received by or on behalf of the Company or its subsidiaries in respect of any permitted disposition transactions shall be used to repay the outstanding borrowings under the Amended Agreement and, to the extent that such net proceeds exceed the amount of such outstanding borrowings, cash collateralize outstanding exposure in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of such net proceeds; (iii) permits indebtedness and guarantees by certain parties noted in the Amended Agreement; and (iv) permits the grant of the purchase option and the sale of certain assets, including the trademarks that were licensed to JCPenney on October 7, 2009. By the end of the first quarter of 2010, we expect to receive $166.7 million of income tax refunds on previously paid taxes due to a Federal law change allowing our 2008 or 2009 domestic losses to be carried back for five years, with the fifth year limited to 50.0% of taxable income. As a condition of the Amended Agreement, we are required to repay amounts outstanding thereunder with the amount of such refunds. As a result of the US Federal tax law change extending the carryback period from two to five years and our carryback of our 2009 tax loss to 2004 and 2005, the IRS has the ability to re-open its past examinations of 2004 and 2005. As discussed above, under our Amended Agreement, we are subject to a fixed charge coverage covenant through May 2011 in the event our borrowing availability falls below certain designated levels. We are also subject to minimum borrowing availability levels and various other covenants and other requirements, such as financial requirements, reporting requirements and various negative covenants. There can be no certainty that availability under the Amended Agreement will be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, or meet minimum requirements or remain at levels that will keep the fixed charge coverage covenant from springing into effect. Based upon our current projections, subject to the expected timing of the receipt of the anticipated tax refunds, we currently anticipate that our borrowing availability will be sufficient to avoid springing the fixed charge coverage covenant for at least the next 12 months. The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the level of our operating cash flows, which will be impacted by retailer and consumer acceptance of our products, general economic conditions and the level of consumer discretionary spending; (ii) the status of, and any further adverse changes in, our credit ratings; (iii) our ability to maintain required levels of borrowing availability and to comply with applicable financial covenants (as amended) and other covenants included in our debt and credit facilities; (iv) the financial wherewithal of our larger department store and specialty store customers; (v) our ability to successfully execute on the licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC with respect to the LIZ CLAIBORNE family of brands; (vi) the timing of the receipt of the anticipated tax refunds; (vii) interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations; and (viii) whether holders of the Convertible Notes, if and when such notes are convertible, elect to convert a substantial portion of such notes, the par value of which we must currently settle in cash. Also, our agreement with Li & Fung provides for a refund of a portion of the $75.0 million closing payment in certain limited circumstances, including a change in control of our Company, the sale or discontinuation of any of our current brands, or certain termination events. The licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC will result in the removal of sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we are required to refund $24.3 million of the closing payment received from Li & Fung, payable by April 15, 2010, with applicable late fees if paid after that date. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. 19 Table of Contents In addition, our Amended Agreement contains a borrowing base that is determined primarily by the level of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory. If we do not have a sufficient borrowing base at any given time, borrowing availability under our Amended Agreement may trigger application of the fixed charge coverage covenant or default and also may not be sufficient to support our liquidity needs. Insufficient borrowing availability under our Amended Agreement would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. An acceleration of amounts outstanding under the Amended Agreement would likely cause cross-defaults under the Company’s other outstanding indebtedness, including the 6.0% Convertible Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 (the “Convertible Notes”) and our 5.0% 350.0 million euro Notes due 2013. We currently believe that the financial institutions under the Amended Agreement are able to fulfill their commitments, although such ability to fulfill commitments will depend on the financial condition of our lenders at the time of borrowing. The Convertible Notes become convertible during any fiscal quarter if the last reported sale price of our common stock during 20 out of the last 30 trading days in the prior fiscal quarter equals or exceeds $4.2912 (which is 120% of the conversion price). As a result of stock price performance during the quarter ended January 2, 2010, the Convertible Notes are convertible during the first quarter of 2010. As previously disclosed in connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we have not yet obtained stockholder approval under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange for the issuance of the full amount of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. Until such approval is obtained, if the Convertible Notes are surrendered for conversion, we must pay the $1,000 principal amount of the conversion value of the Convertible Notes in cash and may settle the remaining conversion value in the form of cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock. Although we consider the conversion of a material amount of the Convertible Notes in the near future to be unlikely, if all or a substantial portion of the outstanding Convertible Notes were so converted and we were required to settle all of the converted Convertible Notes in cash, then we might not have sufficient liquidity to meet our obligations to pay the amounts required upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and maintain the requisite levels of availability required under the Amended Agreement. As discussed above, through May 2011, we are subject to a fixed charge coverage covenant under the Amended Agreement in the event borrowing availability falls below the levels described above. We are also subject to minimum borrowing levels, which require us to maintain availability at the levels described above. We are also subject to various other covenants and other requirements, such as financial requirements, reporting requirements and various negative covenants. Based on our forecast of borrowing availability under the Amended Agreement, and subject to the expected timing of the receipt of the anticipated tax refunds, we anticipate that cash flows from operations and the projected borrowing availability under our Amended Agreement will be sufficient to fund our liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. While we might not be able to maintain the borrowing availability levels necessary to avoid application of the fixed charge coverage covenant, we currently anticipate that, based on the expected timing of the receipt of the anticipated tax refunds, our borrowing availability will be sufficient to avoid springing the fixed charge coverage covenant. If such covenant takes effect during such period, we currently project that we would not be in compliance with such covenant through such period. Compliance with the fixed charge coverage covenant is dependent on the results of our operations, which are subject to a number of factors including current economic conditions and levels of consumer spending. The recent economic environment has resulted in significantly lower employment levels, disposable income and actual and/or perceived wealth, significantly lower consumer confidence and significantly reduced retail sales. Further reductions in consumer spending, as well as a failure of consumer spending levels to rise to previous levels, or a continuation or worsening of current economic conditions would adversely impact our net sales and cash flows, which could adversely affect our compliance with the fixed charge coverage covenant of the Amended Agreement, if it became applicable. Should we be unable to comply with the requirements in the Amended Agreement, we would be unable to borrow under such agreement, and any amounts outstanding would become immediately due and payable unless we were able to secure a waiver or an amendment under the Amended Agreement. Should we be unable to borrow under the Amended Agreement, or if outstanding borrowings thereunder become immediately due and payable, our liquidity would be significantly impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, an acceleration of amounts outstanding under the Amended Agreement would likely cause cross-defaults under our other outstanding indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes and the 5.0% Notes. Because of the continuing uncertainty and risks relating to future economic conditions, including consumer spending in particular, we may, from time to time, explore various initiatives to improve our liquidity, including sales of various assets, additional cost reductions and other measures. In addition, where conditions permit, we may also, from time to time, seek to retire, exchange or purchase our outstanding debt in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. We may not be able to successfully complete any of such actions if necessary. 20 Table of Contents General economic conditions in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world, including a continued weakening of such economies, restricted credit markets and lower levels of consumer spending, can affect consumer confidence and consumer purchases of discretionary items, including fashion apparel and related products, such as ours. The economies of the United States, Europe and other parts of the world in which we operate have weakened significantly as a result of the recent global economic crisis. Our results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer spending, including, but not limited to: (i) general economic and business conditions both in the US and abroad; (ii) consumer confidence; (iii) wages and current and expected employment levels; (iv) the housing market; (v) consumer debt levels; (vi) availability of consumer credit; (vii) credit and interest rates; (viii) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (ix) fuel and energy costs; (x) energy shortages; (xi) the performance of the financial, equity and credit markets; (xii) taxes; (xiii) general political conditions, both domestic and abroad; and (xiv) the level of customer traffic within department stores, malls and other shopping and selling environments. Recent global economic conditions have included significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income and actual and/or perceived wealth and further declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. These conditions have led and could lead to continued substantial declines in consumer spending over the foreseeable future and may have resulted in a resetting of consumer spending habits that makes it unlikely that spending will return to prior levels for the foreseeable future. The current depressed economic environment has been characterized by a dramatic decline in consumer discretionary spending and has disproportionately affected retailers and sellers of consumer goods, particularly those whose goods represent discretionary purchases, including fashion apparel and related products such as ours. A number of our markets continue to suffer particularly severe downturns, including our Eastern European markets, which have been particularly adversely affected by conditions in the world economy, and we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant declines in revenues. Profitability of our MEXX business has been, and is expected to continue to be, even more affected by such downturn as such regions account for a significant amount of MEXX’s profitability. We expect such declines to continue as the adverse impacts of the economic downturn continue to be felt. Economic conditions have also led to a highly promotional environment and strong discounting pressure from both our wholesale and retail customers, which have had a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. This promotional environment may likely continue even after economic growth returns, as we expect that consumer spending trends are likely to remain at historically depressed levels for the foreseeable future. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to further decreases in consumer spending. The recent downturn and uncertain outlook in the global economy will likely continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor, marketing and transportation, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. Such factors may be exacerbated by legislation and regulations associated with global climate change. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher prices on to our customers. The wholesale businesses in our Direct Brands and Partnered Brands segments are dependent to a significant degree on sales to a limited number of large US department store customers, and our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and other ownership changes in the retail industry, financial difficulties at our large department store customers and negative reaction to our licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC. Many major department store groups make centralized buying decisions. Accordingly, any material change in our relationship with any such group could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our wholesale sales. The implementation of our licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC changed the business model of our LIZ CLAIBORNE brands from a wholesale model, in which the Company and a limited number of licensees manufactured goods to be sold through various retail channels to a license model where we will not be sourcing or selling products, but instead receiving a royalty based on net sales by our license partner, and in the case of our JCPenney license, a share in gross profits over agreed upon levels. The goals of these arrangements, which are to revitalize the LIZ CLAIBORNE franchise, reduce working capital needs and increase earnings, might not be met as we seek to implement this new business model and face risks associated with the reception of this new direction among other customers, who may, among other things, seek to change their relationships with our other brands or may de-emphasize our other brands, in response to our LIZ CLAIBORNE brand arrangements, which, in the case of JCPenney, include an exclusive right and license (subject to pre-existing licenses and certain limited exceptions) for the sale, marketing, merchandising, advertising and promotion of the LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ & CO., CLAIBORNE and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE merchandise in the covered product categories in the United States and Puerto Rico. In addition, sales of the licensed brands may suffer during the period leading up to the expected commencement of sales under the agreements in the third quarter of 2010 as certain of our customers may seek to phase out the brands that have been licensed to JCPenney or QVC in anticipation of the changes. In addition, our arrangements with JCPenney and QVC will make us more dependent on the financial and operational health of those companies. 21 Table of Contents Our continued dependence on sales to a limited number of large US department store customers is subject to our ability to respond effectively to, among other things: (i) these customers’ buying patterns, including their purchase and retail floor space commitments for apparel in general (compared with other product categories they sell) and our products specifically (compared with products offered by our competitors, including with respect to customer and consumer acceptance, pricing and new product introductions); (ii) these customers’ strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their “private label” initiatives; (iii) these customers’ desire to have the Company provide them with exclusive and/or differentiated designs and product mixes; (iv) these customers’ requirements for vendor margin support; (v) any credit risks presented by these customers, especially given the significant proportion of the Company’s accounts receivable they represent; and (vi) the effect of any potential consolidation among these larger customers. In addition, our sales to such customers will depend on the reaction of those customers to our licensing arrangements for the LIZ CLAIBORNE brands. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our wholesale customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As a result of the recent unfavorable economic environment, we have experienced a softening of demand from a number of wholesale customers, such as large department stores, who have been highly promotional and have aggressively marked down all of their merchandise, including our products. Any promotional pricing or discounting in response to softening demand may also have a negative effect on brand image and prestige, which may be difficult to counteract once the economy improves. Furthermore, this promotional activity may lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season. Promotional activity at our wholesale customers will also often result in promotional activity at our retail stores, further eroding revenues and profitability. We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the US and Europe and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to our receivables from that customer. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, the difficult macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit markets could negatively impact our customers and consumers which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We may not be able to effect a turnaround of our MEXX Europe business. We are in the process of implementing initiatives announced in September 2008 to accelerate the turnaround of the MEXX business in Europe. These initiatives focus on enhancing the brand by improving product appeal, more closely linking the wholesale and retail presentations, strengthening retail operations and improving our supply chain model. As part of this effort, Thomas J. Grote became CEO of MEXX effective October 1, 2009. However, these initiatives might not maintain or improve the operating results of our MEXX Europe operations. We cannot assure the successful implementation and results of our long-term strategic plans. Our ability to execute our long-term growth plan and achieve our projected results is subject to a variety of risks, including the following: • Our strategic plan contemplated a significant expansion of our specialty retail business in our Domestic-Based Direct Brands and International-Based Direct Brands segments. The successful operation and expansion of our specialty retail business in our Direct Brands segments is subject to, among other things, our ability to: (i) successfully expand the specialty store base of our Direct Brands segments; (ii) successfully find appropriate sites; (iii) negotiate favorable leases; (iv) design and create appealing merchandise; (v) manage inventory levels; (vi) install and operate effective retail systems; (vii) apply appropriate pricing strategies; and (viii) integrate such stores into our overall business mix. We may not be successful in this regard, and our inability to successfully expand our specialty retail business would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In 2009, in light of the current economic conditions and the dramatic decline in consumer spending, especially for fashion apparel and related products such as ours, we significantly decreased capital expenditures and opened 24 retail stores (excluding the conversion of 29 concession stores to specialty retail formats). In 2010, we are slightly increasing our capital expenditure budget and are planning on opening approximately 25 to 30 retail stores. • In 2007, we announced a number of initiatives designed to achieve greater collaboration with our wholesale customers and to improve results of our wholesale-based Partnered Brands. These initiatives include design agreements with Isaac Mizrahi with respect to our LIZ CLAIBORNE brand and with John Bartlett with respect to our CLAIBORNE (men’s) brand. Our wholesale customers had been seeking differentiated products, and we believed that these design agreements would enable us to distinguish our product offering. Over time, we realized that these arrangements and the traditional wholesale business model would not be the solution to improving results for our LIZ CLAIBORNE brands. In October 2009, we changed the business model for our LIZ CLAIBORNE brands from a wholesale model selling to department stores, to a license model where we will not be sourcing or selling products, but instead will be receiving a royalty based on net sales by our license partner and, in the case of our JCPenney license agreement, a share in gross profits over agreed upon levels. Our failure to successfully implement this new model, including as a result of any terminations of these new licensing arrangements, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results. 22 Table of Contents To help us improve our sourcing and supply chain capabilities at our MEXX Europe business, in 2008, we entered into an agreement with Hong Kong-based, global consumer goods exporter Li & Fung, whereby Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel sourcing agent for the MEXX brand and MEXX’s existing sourcing agent offices were integrated into the Li & Fung organization. On February 23, 2009, we entered into a long-term, sourcing agency agreement with Li & Fung, pursuant to which Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel and accessories sourcing agent for all brands in our portfolio, with the exception of our jewelry product lines. Li & Fung continues as the primary sourcing agent for MEXX. Pursuant to the agreement, we received at closing on March 31, 2009 a payment of $75.0 million and an additional payment of $8.0 million to offset specific, incremental, identifiable expenses associated with the transaction. We now pay to Li & Fung an agency commission based on the cost of our product purchases made through Li & Fung. Our sourcing agent offices in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Shanghai and Shenzhen have been substantially integrated into the Li & Fung organization. We might not be successful in these efforts, and our failure to evolve our supply chain capabilities and reduce costs in this area will have a material adverse impact on our business and results. In addition, our agreement with Li & Fung provides for a refund of a portion of the closing payment under certain limited circumstances, including a change in control of the Company, the sale or discontinuation of any of our current brands, certain termination events and the failure to maintain certain levels of business. We are also obligated to use Li & Fung as our sourcing agent for a minimum value of inventory purchases each year through the termination of the agreement in 2019. The licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC will result in the removal of sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we are required to refund $24.3 million of the closing payment received from Li & Fung, payable on or before April 15, 2010, with applicable late fees if paid after that date. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. We continue to assess various streamlining opportunities to reduce costs associated with our distribution process, which could result in additional outsourcing agreements in the future. The successful implementation and execution of the licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC presents risks, including, without limitation, our ability to efficiently change our operational model and infrastructure as a result of such licensing arrangements, our ability to continue a good working relationship with those licensees and possible changes in our other brand relationships or relationships with other retailers as a result. On October 7, 2009, we entered into a multi-year license agreement with JCPenney, which granted JCPenney an exclusive right and license (subject to pre-existing licenses and certain limited exceptions) to use the LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ & CO., CLAIBORNE and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE trademarks with respect to covered product categories. The scope of the license is worldwide for the manufacture of the licensed products and limited to JCPenney’s operations in the US and Puerto Rico for the sale, marketing, merchandising, advertising and promotion of the licensed products. Under the agreement, JCPenney will only use designs provided or approved by us. The license agreement provides for the payment to us of royalties based on net sales of licensed products by JCPenney and a portion of the related gross profit when the gross profit percentage exceeds a specified rate, subject to a minimum annual payment. We also entered into a multi-year license agreement with QVC, granting rights (subject to pre-existing licenses) to certain of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. QVC has the rights to use the LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK brand with Isaac Mizrahi as creative director on any apparel, accessories, or home categories in its US and international markets. QVC will merchandise and source the products and we will provide brand management oversight. The QVC agreement provides for the payment to us of a royalty based on net sales. We expect products under these agreements to be introduced in the third quarter of 2010. In connection with these license agreements, we will be required to adjust our operational model and infrastructure to accommodate the reduction in our requirements to source the products that are the subject of these licenses, which will involve the consolidation of office space and reduction in staff in certain related support functions. As a result, we may incur further charges related to the reduction of leased space, impairments of property and equipment and other assets, severance and other restructuring costs. These actions are expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2010. Most of our existing product licensees will now need to work with QVC and JCPenney directly. Such existing licensees and JCPenney and/or QVC might not be able to successfully work together on the license product categories. Although we have had business dealings with each of JCPenney and QVC prior to entering into these license agreements, these agreements create new business relationships, including certain levels of exclusivity. Although each agreement provides for the payment to us by the respective licensees of certain annual minimum royalties, we believe that, specifically with respect to the JCPenney agreement, the successful implementation of this significant change in the nature of our wholesale business and expanding our relationship with JCPenney presents certain risks to us, including our ability to obtain the maximum value from each of these agreements and our ability for our design, merchandising and other philosophies to mesh with those of our licensees. Moreover, given the exclusive nature of a number of aspects of these transactions and our reliance on the licensees’ payments of the respective annual minimum royalties, we are assuming more credit risk relating to our receivables from these business partners. Our inability to collect the annual minimum royalties from JCPenney could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 23 Table of Contents Our decision to enter into the JCPenney license agreement and the QVC license agreement with their respective exclusivity provisions for the stated brands may have an adverse impact on sales of our other brands to our US department store customers. We operate in a highly competitive retail environment. As a result of the exclusive license to JCPenney of the sale, marketing, merchandising, advertising and promotion of the LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ & CO., CLAIBORNE and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE trademarks, sales of the licensed brands may suffer during the period leading up to the expected commencement of sales under the agreements in the third quarter of 2010 as certain of our US department store customers may seek to phase out the brands. Domestic retailers selling LIZ CLAIBORNE products before the exclusive arrangements were announced did continue to purchase units through the Holiday 2009 season in accordance with their buying plans. Although our other brands have not been adversely impacted to date, certain of our other US department store customers may elect not to purchase our other products if such customers are unable to purchase the complete line of our branded products. Such a decision by a group of US department stores or any other significant customers to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us as a result of the JCPenney license or QVC license could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The JCPenney license and the QVC license provide the licensees with the option, under certain circumstances, to terminate the license. Any such termination could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results. Furthermore, the JCPenney license provides an option to JCPenney to purchase the licensed trademarks and certain other trademarks under certain circumstances. The exercise of such option may require us to incur material costs and expenses to comply with our obligations under the JCPenney license agreement and certain other license agreements. The success of our business depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to constantly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends, across multiple product lines, shopping channels and geographies. The apparel and accessories industries have historically been subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends and to levels of discretionary spending, especially for fashion apparel and related products, which levels are currently weak. We believe that our success is largely dependent on our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and tastes across multiple product lines, shopping channels and geographies, in the design, pricing, styling and production of our products (including products we will design for JCPenney under our licensing arrangement and products to be designed by Isaac Mizrahi under the QVC arrangement) and in the merchandising and pricing of products in our retail stores. Our brands and products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to constant change. Also, we must maintain and enhance favorable brand recognition, which may be affected by consumer attitudes towards the desirability of fashion products bearing a “mega brand” label and which are widely available at a broad range of retail stores. We attempt to schedule a substantial portion of our materials and manufacturing commitments relatively late in the production cycle. However, in order to secure necessary materials and ensure availability of manufacturing facilities, we must make substantial advance commitments, often as much as five months prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers for the items to be produced. We need to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings relatively far in advance, while minimizing excess inventory positions, and correctly balance the level of our fabric and/or merchandise commitments with actual customer orders. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles and brands or successfully meet changing customer and consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received and supported by our wholesale customers or consumers. Our failure to gauge consumer needs and fashion trends and respond appropriately, and to appropriately forecast our ability to sell products, could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with substantial outstanding fabric and/or manufacturing commitments, resulting in increases in unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may need to employ markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory, which may harm our business and results. At the same time, our focus on inventory management may result, from time to time, in our not having a sufficient supply of products to meet demand and cause us to lose potential sales. 24 Table of Contents We cannot assure that we can attract and retain talented highly qualified executives, or maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees, both union and non-union. Our success depends, to a significant extent, both upon the continued services of our executive management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain additional talented and highly qualified management in the future, including the areas of design, merchandising, sales, supply chain, marketing, production and systems, as well as our ability to hire and train qualified retail management and associates. In addition, we will need to provide for the succession of senior management. The loss of key members of management and our failure to successfully plan for succession could disrupt our operations and our ability to successfully operate our business and execute our strategic plan. We are bound by a variety of collective bargaining agreements with two unions, mostly in our warehouse and distribution facilities. We consider our relations with our nonunion and union employees to be satisfactory and to date we have not experienced any interruption of our operations due to labor disputes. While our relations with the unions have historically been amicable, we cannot rule out the possibility of a labor dispute at one or more of our facilities relating to any facility closings, outsourcing or ongoing negotiations with respect to contracts that expire. Any such dispute could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our business could suffer if we cannot adequately establish, defend and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are significantly important to our success and competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities. Counterfeiting of our products, particularly our JUICY COUTURE, LUCKY BRAND and KATE SPADE brands, continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some of our trademarks or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have, in the past, resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. However, the actions taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights might not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Moreover, in certain countries others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or we may not be able to successfully resolve such conflicts, or resolving such conflicts may require us to make significant monetary payments. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The loss of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, or the loss of the exclusive use of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, could have a material adverse effect on us. Any litigation regarding our trademarks or other proprietary rights could be time consuming and costly. Our success will depend on our ability to successfully develop or acquire new product lines or enter new markets or product categories. We have in the past, and may, from time to time, acquire or develop new product lines, enter new markets or product categories, including through licensing arrangements (such as the license of our DANA BUCHMAN brand to Kohl’s), and/or implement new business models (such as the licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC for the LIZ CLAIBORNE brands). Such activities are accompanied by a variety of risks inherent in any such new business venture, including the following: • Our ability to identify appropriate business development opportunities, including new product lines and markets; • New businesses, business models, product lines or market activities may require methods of operations, investments and marketing and financial strategies different from those employed in our other businesses, and may also involve buyers, store customers and/or competitors different from our historical buyers, store customers and competitors; • Consumer acceptance of the new products or lines; • We may not be able to generate projected or satisfactory levels of sales, profits and/or return on investment for a new business or product line, and may also encounter unanticipated events and unknown or uncertain liabilities that could materially impact our business; • We may experience possible difficulties, delays and/or unanticipated costs in integrating the business, operations, personnel and/or systems of an acquired business and may also not be able to retain and appropriately motivate key personnel of an acquired business; • We may not be able to maintain product licenses, which are subject to agreement with a variety of terms and conditions, or to enter into new licenses to enable us to launch new products and lines; and • With respect to a business where we act as licensee, such as our licensed DKNY® JEANS, DKNY® ACTIVE and DKNY® MENS brands, there are a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, compliance with terms set forth in the applicable license agreements, including among other things the maintenance of certain levels of sales and the public perception and/or acceptance of the licensor’s brands or other product lines, which are not within our control. 25 Table of Contents The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, both within the United States and abroad. We face intense competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion apparel and accessories producers and retailers. Competition is based on a number of factors, including the following: • Anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • Establishing and maintaining favorable brand name and recognition; • Product quality; • Maintaining and growing market share; • Developing quality and differentiated products that appeal to consumers; • Establishing and maintaining acceptable relationships with our retail customers; • Pricing products appropriately; • Providing appropriate service and support to retailers; • Optimizing our retail and supply chain capabilities; • Size and location of our retail stores and department store selling space; and • Protecting intellectual property. Any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address these competitive factors, could result in reduced sales or prices, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We also believe there is an increasing focus by the department stores to concentrate an increasing portion of their product assortments within their own private label products. These private label lines compete directly with our product lines and may receive prominent positioning on the retail floor by department stores. Finally, in the current economic environment, which is characterized by softening demand for discretionary items, such as apparel and related products, there has been a consistently increased level of promotional activity, both at our retail stores and at department stores, which has had an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our reliance on independent foreign manufacturers could cause delay and loss and damage our reputation and customer relationships. Also, there are risks associated with our agreement with Li & Fung, which results in a single foreign sourcing agent for a significant portion of our products. We do not own any product manufacturing facilities; all of our products are manufactured in accordance with our specifications through arrangements with independent suppliers. Products produced in Asia represent a substantial majority of our sales. We also source product in the United States and other regions, including several hundred suppliers manufacturing our products. At the end of fiscal 2009 such suppliers were located in approximately 44 countries, with the largest finished goods supplier at such time accounting for less than 6.0% of the total of finished goods we purchased in fiscal 2009. A supplier’s failure to manufacture and deliver products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may drive customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our reputation in the marketplace. Also, a manufacturer’s failure to comply with safety and content regulations and standards, including with respect to children’s product and fashion jewelry, could result in substantial liability and damage to our reputation. While we provide our manufacturers with standards, and we employ independent testing for safety and content issues, we might not be able to prevent or detect all failures of our manufacturers to comply with such standards and regulations. We require our independent manufacturers (as well as our licensees) to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us (or any of our licensees), or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s (or licensee’s) labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the US, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In 2008, we entered into an agreement with Hong Kong-based, global consumer goods exporter Li & Fung, whereby Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel sourcing agent for the MEXX brand and MEXX’s existing sourcing agent offices were integrated into the Li & Fung organization. On February 23, 2009, we entered into a long-term, sourcing agency agreement with Li & Fung, pursuant to which Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel and accessories sourcing agent for all brands in our portfolio, with the exception of our jewelry product lines. Li & Fung continues as the primary sourcing agent for MEXX. Pursuant to the agreement, we received at closing on March 31, 2009 a payment of $75.0 million and an additional payment of $8.0 million to offset specific, identifiable, incremental expenses associated with the transaction. We now pay to Li & Fung an agency commission based on the cost of our product purchases through Li & Fung. Our sourcing agent offices In Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Shanghai and Shenzhen have been substantially integrated into the Li & Fung organization. The transition with Li & Fung might not be successful, and problems encountered in such transition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC will result in the removal of sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we are required to refund $24.3 million of the closing payment received from Li & Fung, payable on or before April 15, 2010, with applicable late fees if paid after that date. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. 26 Table of Contents Our arrangements with foreign suppliers and with our foreign sourcing agents are subject generally to the risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations and revaluations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, terrorist activities, pandemic disease and, in certain parts of the world, political, economic and currency instability. Our operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date. However, due to the very substantial portion of our products that are produced abroad, any substantial disruption of our relationships with our foreign suppliers could adversely effect our operations. Moreover, difficult macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit markets could negatively impact our suppliers, which in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to a variety of legal, regulatory, political and economic risks, including risks relating to the importation and exportation of product. We source most of our products outside the US through arrangements with independent suppliers in approximately 44 countries as of January 2, 2010. There are a number of risks associated with importing our products, including but not limited to the following: • The potential reimposition of quotas, which could limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from a given country, in the context of a trade retaliatory case; • Changes in social, political, legal and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; • The imposition of additional regulations, or the administration of existing regulations, relating to products which are imported, exported or otherwise distributed; • The imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; • Risks of increased sourcing costs, including costs for materials and labor and such increases potentially resulting from the elimination of quota on apparel products; • Our ability to adapt to and compete effectively in the current quota environment, in which general quota has expired on apparel products, resulting in changing in sourcing patterns and lowered barriers to entry, but political activities which could result in the reimposition of quotas or other restrictive measures have been initiated or threatened; • Significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; • The imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and • The enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations, or executive action affecting international textile agreements, including the United States’ reevaluation of the trading status of certain countries and/or retaliatory duties, quotas or other trade sanctions, which, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries. Any one of these or similar factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and current business practices. Our ability to realize growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of sales in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets; political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries, markets or currencies. Our business and balance sheets are exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations, including with respect to the outstanding euro-denominated notes. While we generally purchase our products in US dollars, we source most of our products overseas. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies, including currency devaluations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the US dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales represented approximately 33.0% of our total sales in fiscal 2009 and 35.5% in fiscal 2008. Such sales were derived from sales in foreign currencies, primarily the euro. Our international sales, as well as our international businesses’ inventory and accounts receivable levels, could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. In addition, we have outstanding 350.0 million euro of euro-denominated Notes, which could further expose our business and balance sheets to foreign currency fluctuations. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to utilize all or a portion of our US deferred tax assets may be limited significantly if we experience an “ownership change.” As of January 2, 2010, we had US federal deferred tax assets of $297.1 million, which include net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards and other items which could be considered net unrealized built in losses (“NUBIL”). Among other factors, our ability to utilize our NOL and/or our NUBIL items to offset future taxable income may be limited significantly if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by “5.0% shareholders” (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. The limitation arising from an “ownership change” under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code on our ability to utilize our US deferred tax assets depends on the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change. We continue to monitor changes in our ownership and do not believe we have a change in control as of January 2, 2010. If all or a portion of our deferred tax assets are subject to limitation because we experience an ownership change, depending on the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change, our future cash flows could be adversely impacted due to increased tax liability. As of January 2, 2010, substantially all tax benefit of the US deferred tax assets has been offset with a full valuation allowance that was recognized in our financial statements during the years ended January 2, 2010 and January 3, 2009. The outcome of current and future litigations and other proceedings in which we are involved may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to various litigations and other proceedings in our business which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. For a more detailed discussion of these litigations and other proceedings, see “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” We may in the future be subject to claims by other licensees of our merchandise that may be similar to those we have disclosed in this annual report, and we may also become party to other claims and legal actions in the future which, either individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any of the current or possible future legal proceedings in which we may be involved could require significant management and financial resources, which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 