Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC, in evaluating us and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be 19 Table of Contents exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may impact our business. Our business strategy is centered on the KATE SPADE family of brands. We cannot assure the successful implementation and results of our long-term strategic plans, including our ability to operate as a mono-brand company. Our ability to execute our long-term growth plan and achieve our projected results is subject to a variety of risks, including the following: •We may not be able to successfully transition our business from our prior multi-brand model to a mono-brand model focused on the KATE SPADE family of brands in the time frame expected, and the costs and disruptions from the transition may be greater than anticipated. •We are exposed to additional risk from lack of diversification that did not affect our prior multi-brand business strategy as significantly. Our business prospects and results of operations will depend substantially on our ability to successfully maintain and develop the brand image and brand equity of the KATE SPADE family of brands. •The KATE SPADE family of brands could be negatively affected by changes in consumer preferences, brand awareness and fashion trends, and any such changes or other adverse events could have a more significant impact on a single family of brands than a portfolio of multiple brands. •We may be unable to successfully acquire new full-price customers through our marketing and CRM initiatives. •We may not be able to maintain and improve our operating margins and control promotional activity. •We may not be able to achieve our revenue growth targets because of local, regional, national and worldwide macroeconomic factors that may reduce demand for our products. •We may be unable to grow our revenues through retail expansion because of risks associated with selecting suitable locations for stand-alone retail stores and appropriate department store locations. •We may not be able to expand internationally, including in Japan, China, Brazil, the United Kingdom and Southeast Asia, because of local and regional risks associated with those markets, including currency risks, political climate and other similar risks. •We may not be able to gain new customers by managing our price points and introducing new product categories, including watches, jewelry, sunglasses and fragrances. •Our e-commerce expansion is subject to risks associated with a material disruption in our information technology systems and e-commerce operations, and with the introduction of government regulations, including in markets outside of the United States, which could cause unfavorable changes or for which failure by us to comply could substantially harm our e-commerce business. •Our ability to achieve the business plan for the Kate Spade Saturday brand will be subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to successfully market the brand and increase customer awareness of the brand and customer acceptance of our Kate Spade Saturday products. We may not be successful in implementing our long-term growth plan, and our inability to successfully expand our retail business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents General economic conditions in the US, Asia, Europe and other parts of the world, including a continued weakening or instability of such economies, restricted credit markets and lower levels of consumer spending, can affect consumer confidence and consumer purchases of discretionary items, including fashion apparel and related products, such as ours. The economies of the US, Asia, Europe and other parts of the world in which we operate weakened significantly as a result of the global economic crisis that began in the second half of 2008 and which has for the most part persisted since then, with recent signs of modest improvement in the US. Our results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer spending, including, but not limited to: (i) general economic and business conditions both in the US and abroad; (ii) consumer confidence; (iii) wages and current and expected employment levels; (iv) the housing market; (v) consumer debt levels; (vi) availability of consumer credit; (vii) credit and interest rates; (viii) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (ix) fuel and energy costs; (x) energy shortages; (xi) the performance of the financial, equity and credit markets; (xii) taxes; (xiii) general political conditions, both domestic and abroad; and (xiv) the level of customer traffic within department stores, malls and other shopping and selling environments. Global economic conditions over the past few years have included significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income and actual and/or perceived wealth and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. The current unstable economic environment has been characterized by a dramatic decline in consumer discretionary spending and has disproportionately affected retailers and sellers of consumer goods, particularly those whose goods represent discretionary purchases, including fashion apparel and related products such as ours. While the decline in consumer spending has recently moderated, these economic conditions could still lead to continued declines in consumer spending over the foreseeable future and may have resulted in a resetting of consumer spending habits that makes it unlikely that such spending will return to prior levels for the foreseeable future. A number of our markets continue to suffer particularly severe downturns, and we have experienced significant declines in revenues. While we have seen intermittent signs of stabilization in North America, there continues to be volatility in the European markets and there are no assurances that the global economy will continue to recover. If the global economy continues to be weak or deteriorates further, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues, operating margins and earnings across all of our segments. Economic conditions have also led to a highly promotional environment and strong discounting pressure from both our wholesale and retail customers, which have had a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. This promotional environment may likely continue even after economic growth returns, as we expect that consumer spending trends are likely to remain at historically depressed levels for the foreseeable future. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to further decreases in consumer spending. The recent downturn and uncertain outlook in the global economy will likely continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor, marketing and transportation, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers' demands. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. Such factors may be exacerbated by legislation and regulations associated with global climate change. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher prices on to our customers. 21 Table of Contents Our current level of debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and prevent us from fulfilling our debt-related obligations. As of December 28, 2013, the total principal amount of our 10.5% Senior Secured Notes due April 2019 (the "Senior Notes") was $372.0 million. Our current level of debt could have important consequences for the holders of our common stock, including: •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt or to our trade or other creditors; •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions, particularly when the availability of financing in the capital markets is limited; •requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations and the proceeds of any capital markets offerings for the payment of interest on our debt and reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and •placing us at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us through capital markets financings or under our Amended Facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before its maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in order to finance our operations or to repay existing indebtedness. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional debt or equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. We cannot assure you that any such actions, if necessary, could be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or on terms that would be advantageous to our stockholders or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. Restrictive covenants in our Amended Facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes and other indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The indentures governing our Senior Notes and the agreement governing our Amended Facility limit our ability, and the terms of any future indebtedness may limit our ability, among other things, to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; •make certain investments; •pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock; •sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; •agree to restrictions on distributions, transfers or dividends affecting our restricted subsidiaries; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; •enter into transactions with our affiliates; •incur liens; and 22 Table of Contents •designate any of our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. In addition, the agreement governing our Amended Facility requires us to maintain pro forma compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0:1.0 on a trailing 12 month basis if minimum aggregate borrowing availability falls below $35.0 million, or 10.0% of the commitments then in effect and requires us to apply substantially all cash collections to reduce outstanding borrowings under the Amended Facility when availability under such facility falls below the greater of $40.0 million and 12.5% of the lesser of the borrowing base and aggregate commitments. The restrictions contained in the indentures governing our Senior Notes and the agreement governing our Amended Facility could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. We may require additional capital in the future and may not be able to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us. Our primary ongoing cash requirements are to: (i) fund seasonal working capital needs (primarily accounts receivable and inventory); (ii) fund capital expenditures related to the opening and refurbishing of our specialty retail and outlet stores and normal maintenance activities; (iii) fund remaining efforts associated with our streamlining initiatives, including contract termination costs, employee-related costs and other costs associated with the sale of the Juicy Couture IP and LUCKY BRAND as discussed above; (iv) invest in our information systems; (v) fund general operational and contractual obligations; and (vi) potentially repurchase or retire debt obligations. The expansion and development of our business may also require significant capital, which we may be unable to obtain, to fund our capital expenditures and operating expenses, including working capital needs. Our Amended Facility matures in April 2018. Availability under the Amended Facility shall be the lesser of $350.0 million and a borrowing base that is computed monthly and comprised of our eligible cash, accounts receivable and inventory. The Amended Facility also includes a swingline subfacility of $55.0 million, a multicurrency subfacility of $100.0 million and the option to expand the facility by up to $100.0 million under certain specified conditions. A portion of the facility provided under the Amended Facility of up to $200.0 million is available for the issuance of letters of credit, and standby letters of credit may not exceed $65.0 million in the aggregate. During the next 12 months, we otherwise expect to meet our cash requirements with existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and borrowings under our Amended Facility. We may fail to generate sufficient cash flow from such sources to meet our cash requirements. Further, our capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned if, for example, our revenues do not reach expected levels or we have to incur unforeseen capital expenditures and make investments to maintain our competitive position. If this is the case, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated or we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our development and expansion plans or otherwise forego market opportunities. To a large extent, our cash flow generation ability is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before its maturity, or obtain additional equity or debt financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow, refinance our indebtedness or incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our financial condition and could cause us to be unable to service our debt and may delay or prevent the expansion of our business. 23 Table of Contents In 2010, we received $171.5 million of net income tax refunds on previously paid taxes primarily due to a Federal law change in 2009 allowing our 2008 or 2009 domestic losses to be carried back for five years, with the fifth year limited to 50.0% of taxable income. We repaid amounts outstanding under our Amended Facility with the amount of such refunds. As a result of the US Federal tax law change extending the carryback period from two to five years and our carryback of our 2009 tax loss to 2004 and 2005, the IRS has the ability to re-open its past examinations of 2004 and 2005. Our success will depend on our ability to successfully develop or acquire new product lines and enter new markets or product categories. We have in the past, and may, from time to time, acquire or develop new product lines, enter new markets or product categories, including through licensing arrangements, and/or implement new business models (such as the KATE SPADE SATURDAY line). Such activities are accompanied by a variety of risks inherent in any such new business venture, including the following: •our ability to identify appropriate business development opportunities, including new product lines and new markets, including important growth markets such as India, Russia, Asia and South America; •new businesses, business models, product lines or market activities may require methods of operations, investments and marketing and financial strategies different from those employed in our other businesses, and may also involve buyers, store customers and/or competitors different from our historical buyers, store customers and competitors; •consumer acceptance of the new products or lines, and the impact on existing businesses given the new products or lines, including the pricing of such lines; •we may not be able to generate projected or satisfactory levels of sales, profits and/or return on investment for a new business or product line, and may also encounter unanticipated events and unknown or uncertain liabilities that could materially impact our business; •we may experience possible difficulties, delays and/or unanticipated costs in integrating the business, operations, personnel and/or systems of an acquired business and may also not be able to retain and appropriately motivate key personnel of an acquired business; •risks related to complying with different laws and regulations in new markets; •we may not be able to maintain product licenses, which are subject to agreement with a variety of terms and conditions, or to enter into new licenses to enable us to launch new products and lines; and •with respect to a business where we are not the brand owner, but instead act as an exclusive licensee or an exclusive supplier, such as the arrangements within our Adelington Design Group discussed above for the LIZ CLAIBORNE, MONET and KENSIE brands, there are a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, compliance with terms set forth in the applicable agreements, the level of orders placed by our business partners and the public perception and/or acceptance of our business partners, the brands or other product lines, which are not within our control. There are risks associated with the sale of the LUCKY BRAND business, including our ability to collect the full amount of principal and interest due and owing pursuant to a three year note issued by Lucky Brand Dungarees, LLC to us as partial consideration for the sale of the LUCKY BRAND business and our ability to comply with our transition service requirements. As part of the consideration for the sale of the LUCKY BRAND business, we have received a Senior Secured Note due 2017 (the "Lucky Brand Note") in an aggregate initial principal amount of $85.0 million issued by Lucky Brand Dungarees, LLC ("Lucky Brand LLC") and guaranteed by substantially all of its 24 Table of Contents subsidiaries. The Lucky Brand Note is secured by a second-priority lien on all accounts receivable and inventory of Lucky Brand LLC and the guarantor subsidiaries and a first-priority lien on all other collateral of Lucky Brand LLC and the guarantors. The accounts receivable and inventory secure Lucky Brand LLC's asset-based revolving loan facility on a first-priority basis, and the other collateral secures that loan facility on a second-priority basis. The principal amount of the Lucky Brand Note increases by $5.0 million per year, in equal monthly increments, and bears cash interest of $8.0 million per year, payable semiannually in arrears. The Lucky Brand Note is prepayable at any time by Lucky Brand LLC without a prepayment premium, subject to certain restrictions as to the minimum amount that may be prepaid without our consent. To the extent that the business, financial condition and results of operations of Lucky Brand LLC are adversely affected, Lucky Brand LLC's ability to service the Lucky Brand Note or to repay or refinance the Lucky Brand Note could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, our ability to receive payments on the Lucky Brand Note is dependent on such factors, and we may not receive timely payments or be paid the amounts due under the Lucky Brand Note at all. Under a transition services agreement with Lucky Brand LLC, we are required to provide Lucky Brand LLC with certain transitional services, such as IT support, accounting services, tax services and other services that were provided at the corporate level while LUCKY BRAND was owned by us. The services will be provided at cost for up to a maximum of two years from the closing date, subject to earlier termination of the various services by Lucky Brand LLC. The provision of these services may cause disruption of the operations of the rest of our brands and businesses and diversion of management attention from such businesses and operations. There are risks associated with the sale of the JUICY COUTURE brand name and related intellectual property assets to ABG, including our ability to complete and implement the transition plan for the JUICY COUTURE business in a satisfactory manner and to manage the associated restructuring and transition costs, our ability to complete the termination of the lease for our JUICY COUTURE flagship store in New York City, the impact of the transition plan and the announced future plans for the JUICY COUTURE brand on our relationships with our employees, our major customers, vendors and landlords and unanticipated expenses and charges that may be incurred as a result of the restructuring and transition plan, such as litigation risks, including litigation regarding employment and workers' compensation. On November 6, 2013, we completed the sale of the JUICY COUTURE brand name and related intellectual property assets to ABG. Under our agreement we are required to unwind our current JUICY COUTURE business, including our retail stores. To accommodate the wind-down, certain JUICY COUTURE intellectual property was licensed back to us from ABG until December 31, 2014. The contemplated wind-down will include the continued operation of our JUICY COUTURE retail stores and the continued operation of our JUICY COUTURE wholesale business, including with our international distributors, ending with the spring and summer 2014 collections. As a result of the requirement to wind down JUICY COUTURE operations, we expect to close offices and retail locations that will not be converted to KATE SPADE stores. We estimate we will recognize a net restructuring credit (including estimated contract termination, employee related and other costs, net of expected proceeds of $51.0 million from the surrender of the JUICY COUTURE flagship store on Fifth Ave in New York) of $0 - $10.0 million. Although we expect to consummate the lease termination transaction, there can be no assurance such termination fee will be realized by us and in the instance such termination fee is not realized by us, we expect to incur cash restructuring charges of $40.0 - $50.0 million, which could impact our liquidity. In developing such estimates, we have assumed that certain of the current JUICY COUTURE retail locations will be converted to a KATE SPADE format. In addition, such estimates do not reflect any other transactions with our contractual counterparties to mitigate the charges. Actual restructuring and transition charges and impairment charges may materially exceed our estimates due to various factors, many of which are outside of our control, including, without limitation, the actual outcomes of discussions and negotiations (a number of which are currently ongoing) with the counterparties to the contracts we intend to terminate or modify. Because of uncertainties with respect to 25 Table of Contents our transition plan (including those described above), we may not be able to complete and implement our transition plan with respect to the JUICY COUTURE business as we expect or in a satisfactory manner, and the costs incurred in connection with such transition may exceed our estimates. If the actual restructuring and transition charges or impairment charges exceed our estimates or if our transition plan is not implemented as expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, because of the transition of the JUICY COUTURE brand and because of other factors that ordinarily influence consumer acceptance of our products (many of which are outside our control), we may not be able to sell our JUICY COUTURE spring and summer 2014 products at prices that will generate a profit. If we incur losses relating to the sales of such products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Moreover, during the term of the wind-down license, we will no longer own the trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names and certain related assets that are essential to the operation of the JUICY COUTURE business and to the wind-down process of that business in a manner that is currently planned. If for any reason the wind-down license is terminated, we would no longer be able to operate the JUICY COUTURE business or implement the wind-down process as envisioned. Such disruption in the wind-down process could increase costs associated with the wind-down activities, lengthen the wind-down period and materially and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the wind-down activities involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: •The inability of the JUICY COUTURE business to retain qualified personnel necessary for the wind-down during the wind-down period; •Potential disruption of the operations of the rest of our brands and businesses and diversion of management attention from such businesses and operations; •Exposure to unknown, contingent or other liabilities, including litigation arising in connection with the JUICY COUTURE wind-down or the wind-down license; •Negative impact on our business relationships, including relationships with our customers, suppliers, vendors, lessors, licensees and employees; and •Unintended negative consequences from changes to our business profile. If any of these or other factors impair our ability to successfully implement the wind-down, we may not be able to realize other business opportunities as we may be required to spend additional time and incur additional expense relating to the wind-down that otherwise would be used on the development and expansion of our other businesses. Our wholesale businesses are dependent to a significant degree on sales to a limited number of large US department store customers, and our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies, other ownership changes in the retail industry or financial difficulties at our large department store customers. Many major department store groups make centralized buying decisions. Accordingly, any material change in our relationship with any such group could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our wholesale sales. Our continued partial dependence on sales to a limited number of large US department store customers is subject to our ability to respond effectively to, among other things: (i) these customers' buying patterns, including their purchase and retail floor space commitments for apparel in general (compared with other product categories they sell) and our products specifically (compared with products offered by our competitors, including with respect to customer and consumer acceptance, pricing and new product introductions); (ii) these customers' strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on 26 Table of Contents further development of their "private label" initiatives; (iii) these customers' desire to have us provide them with exclusive and/or differentiated designs and product mixes; (iv) these customers' requirements for vendor margin support; (v) any credit risks presented by these customers, especially given the significant proportion of our accounts receivable they represent; and (vi) the effect of any potential consolidation among these larger customers. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our wholesale customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As a result of the recent unfavorable economic environment, we have experienced a softening of demand from a number of wholesale customers, such as large department stores, who have been highly promotional and have aggressively marked down all of their merchandise, including our products. Any promotional pricing or discounting in response to softening demand may also have a negative effect on brand image and prestige, which may be difficult to counteract once the economy improves. Furthermore, this promotional activity may lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season. Promotional activity at our wholesale customers will also often result in promotional activity at our retail stores, further eroding revenues and profitability. We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the US and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to our receivables from that customer. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, the difficult macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit markets could negatively impact our customers and consumers which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The success of our business depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to constantly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends, across multiple brands, product lines, shopping channels and geographies. The apparel and accessories industries have historically been subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends and to levels of discretionary spending, especially for fashion apparel and related products, which levels are currently weak. These industries are also subject to being able to expand business to growing markets worldwide. We believe that our success is largely dependent on our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and tastes across multiple product lines, shopping channels and geographies, in the design, pricing, styling and production of our products and in the merchandising and pricing of products in our retail stores, and in the business model employed, and partners we select to work with, in new and growing markets worldwide. Our brands and products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to constant change. Also, we must maintain and enhance favorable brand recognition, which may be affected by consumer attitudes towards the desirability of fashion products bearing a "mega brand" label and which are widely available at a broad range of retail stores. Our success is also dependent on our ability to successfully extend our businesses into new territories and markets, such as India, Russia, Asia and South America. We attempt to schedule a substantial portion of our materials and manufacturing commitments relatively late in the production cycle. However, in order to secure necessary materials and ensure availability of manufacturing facilities, we must make substantial advance commitments, which may be up to five months or longer, prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers for the items to be produced. We need to 27 Table of Contents translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings relatively far in advance, while minimizing excess inventory positions, and correctly balance the level of our fabric and/or merchandise commitments with actual customer orders. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles and brands or successfully meet changing customer and consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received and supported by our wholesale customers or consumers. Our failure to gauge consumer needs and fashion trends by brand and respond appropriately, and to appropriately forecast our ability to sell products, could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with substantial outstanding fabric and/or manufacturing commitments, resulting in increases in unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may need to employ markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory, which may harm our business and results. At the same time, our focus on inventory management may result, from time to time, in our not having a sufficient supply of products to meet demand and cause us to lose potential sales. We cannot assure that we can attract and retain talented highly qualified executives, or maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees. Our success depends, to a significant extent, both upon the continued services of our executive management team, including brand-level executives, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain additional talented and highly qualified management in the future, including the areas of design, merchandising, sales, supply chain, marketing, production and systems, as well as our ability to hire and train qualified retail management and associates. In addition, we will need to provide for the succession of senior management, including brand-level executives. The loss of key members of management and our failure to successfully plan for succession could disrupt our operations and our ability to successfully operate our business and execute our strategic plan. Our business could suffer if we cannot adequately establish, defend and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are significantly important to our success and competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities. Counterfeiting of our products, particularly our kate spade new york brand, continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some of our trademarks or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have, in the past, resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. However, the actions taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights might not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Moreover, in certain countries others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or we may not be able to successfully resolve such conflicts, or resolving such conflicts may require us to make significant monetary payments. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the US. The loss of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, or the loss of the exclusive use of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, could have a material adverse effect on us. Any litigation regarding our trademarks or other proprietary rights could be time consuming and costly. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, both within the US and abroad. We face intense competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion apparel and accessories producers and retailers. Competition is based on a number of factors, including the following: •anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; 28 Table of Contents •establishing and maintaining favorable brand name and recognition; •product quality; •maintaining and growing market share; •exploiting markets outside of the US, including growth markets such as India, Russia, Asia and South America; •developing quality and differentiated products that appeal to consumers; •establishing and maintaining acceptable relationships with our retail customers; •pricing products appropriately; •providing appropriate service and support to retailers; •optimizing our retail and supply chain capabilities; •size and location of our retail stores and department store selling space; and •protecting intellectual property. In addition, some of our competitors may be significantly larger and more diversified than us and may have significantly greater financial, technological, manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the accessories, footwear and apparel industries, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. The general availability of manufacturing contractors and agents also allows new entrants easy access to the markets in which we compete, which may increase the number of our competitors and adversely affect our competitive position and our business. Any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address these competitive factors, could result in reduced sales or prices, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We also believe there is an increasing focus by the department stores to concentrate an increasing portion of their product assortments within their own private label products. These private label lines compete directly with our product lines and may receive prominent positioning on the retail floor by department stores. Finally, in the current economic environment, which is characterized by softening demand for discretionary items, such as apparel and related products, there has been a consistently increased level of promotional activity, both at our retail stores and at department stores, which has had an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our reliance on independent foreign manufacturers could cause delay and loss and damage our reputation and customer relationships. Also, there are risks associated with our agreement with Li & Fung, which results in a single foreign buying/sourcing agent for a significant portion of our products. We do not own any product manufacturing facilities; all of our products are manufactured in accordance with our specifications through arrangements with independent suppliers. Products produced in Asia represent a substantial majority of our sales. We also source product in the US and other regions, including approximately 230 suppliers manufacturing our products. At the end of 2013, such suppliers were located in 17 countries, with the largest finished goods supplier at such time accounting for less than 6.0% of the total of finished goods we purchased in 2013. A supplier's failure to manufacture and deliver products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may drive customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our reputation in the marketplace. Also, a manufacturer's failure to comply with safety and content regulations and standards, including with respect to children's product and fashion jewelry, could result in substantial liability and damage to our reputation. While we provide our manufacturers with standards, and we employ independent testing for safety and content issues, we might not be able to prevent or detect all failures of our manufacturers to comply with such standards and regulations. 29 Table of Contents Additionally, we require our independent manufacturers (as well as our licensees) to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While we believe that our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us (or any of our licensees), or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's (or licensee's) labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the US, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. On February 23, 2009, we entered into a long-term, buying/sourcing agency agreement with Li & Fung, pursuant to which Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel and accessories buying/sourcing agent for all brands in our portfolio, with the exception of our jewelry product lines. Pursuant to the agreement, we received at closing on March 31, 2009 a payment of $75.0 million and an additional payment of $8.0 million to offset specific, identifiable, incremental expenses associated with the transaction. We pay to Li & Fung an agency commission based on the cost of our product purchases through Li & Fung. Our agreement with Li & Fung provides for a refund of a portion of the 2009 closing payment in certain limited circumstances, including a change of control of the Company, the divestiture or discontinuation of any current brand, or certain termination events. We are also obligated to use Li & Fung as our buying/sourcing agent for a minimum value of inventory purchases each year through the termination of the agreement in 2019. Since 2009 we have completed various disposition transactions, including the licensing arrangements with JCPenney in the US and Puerto Rico and with QVC, the sales of the KENSIE, KENSIE GIRL and MAC & JAC trademarks and the sale of the Juicy Couture IP, which have resulted in the removal of buying/sourcing for such products sold from the Li & Fung buying/sourcing arrangement. As a result, we refunded a portion of the closing payment received from Li & Fung of $24.3 million in the second quarter of 2010, $1.8 million in the second quarter of 2012 and settled $6.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. We are not required to make any payments to Li & Fung as a result of the sale of LUCKY BRAND. In addition, our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. Our arrangements with foreign suppliers and with our foreign buying/sourcing agents are subject generally to the risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations and revaluations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, terrorist activities, pandemic disease and, in certain parts of the world, political, economic and currency instability. Our operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date. However, due to the very substantial portion of our products that are produced abroad, any substantial disruption of our relationships with our foreign suppliers could adversely affect our operations. Moreover, difficult macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit markets could negatively impact our suppliers, which in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Costs related to withdrawal from a multi-employer pension fund could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. In the second quarter of 2011, we initiated actions to close our Ohio Facility, which was expected to result in the termination of all or a significant portion of our union employees. In the third quarter of 2011, we ceased contributing to a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan (the "Fund"), which is regulated by the ERISA. Under ERISA, cessation of employer contributions triggers an obligation by such employer for a "withdrawal liability" to such plan, with the amount of such withdrawal liability representing the portion of the plan's underfunding allocable to the withdrawing employer. We incurred such a liability in the second quarter of 2011 and recorded a $17.6 million charge to Selling, general & administrative expenses ("SG&A"), related to our estimate of the withdrawal liability. Under applicable statutory rules, this withdrawal liability is payable over a period of time, and we previously estimated that we would pay such 30 Table of Contents liability in equal quarterly installments over a period of eight to 12 years, with payments anticipated to commence in 2012. In February 2012, we were notified by the Fund that the Fund calculated our total withdrawal liability to be $19.1 million, a difference of approximately $1.5 million, and that 17 quarterly payments of $1.2 million would commence on March 1, 2012, and continue for four years, with a final payment of $1.0 million on June 1, 2016. In light of the Fund's notice, we recorded an additional charge to SG&A in 2011. As of December 28, 2013, the accrued withdrawal liability was $12.0 million, which was included in Accrued expenses and Other non-current liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. We do not believe that this withdrawal liability amount or the schedule of payments will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. There are risks associated with our arrangement to continue to operate the Ohio distribution facility with a third party operations and labor management company that provides distribution operations services, including risks related to increased operating expenses, systems capabilities and operating under a third party arrangement. In connection with our streamlining initiatives, in July 2011, we announced our plan to close our Ohio Facility in the second half of 2012 and migrate the distribution function to a third party service provider, and that we had entered into a Memorandum of Agreement (the "Agreement") between us and the Chicago and Midwest Regional Joint Board of Workers United (the "Union"), which was ratified by the Union. The Agreement set forth the terms and conditions pursuant to which we had planned to effectuate orderly layoffs of our employees at the Ohio Facility, in connection with the anticipated closure and sale of the Ohio Facility in the fourth quarter of 2012. The Agreement provided, among other things, that the terms and conditions of the collective bargaining agreement between the Company and the Union, effective June 17, 2008 to June 16, 2011, as previously extended to July 16, 2011 by the parties (the "CBA"), were to remain in effect during the expected shutdown of the Ohio Facility, except as such terms are amended by the Agreement. In August 2011, we entered into an agreement with Li & Fung for the provision of distribution services in the United States and at that time we planned to migrate from our Ohio Facility to the Li & Fung facility. In August 2012, we encountered systems and operational issues that delayed the planned migration of our product distribution function out of the Ohio Facility. Subsequently, we determined that we would continue to use the Ohio Facility and discontinue the migration of the product distribution function to Li & Fung, and we mutually agreed with Li & Fung to allow the distribution agreement with Li & Fung to expire as of January 31, 2013. In connection with such expiration, we decided that, given the complex distribution needs of our businesses, we should continue to use the Ohio Facility, and on February 5, 2013, we entered into a contract with a third-party distribution center operations and labor management company to provide distribution operations services at the Ohio Facility. These actions resulted in charges related to contract terminations, severance, asset impairments and other charges and were substantially completed in the second quarter of 2013. In addition, we notified the employees covered by the Agreement of the completion of layoffs on March 31, 2013, at which time the Agreement and CBA terminated. The third-party distribution center operations company employs our prior employees, including union employees, at the Ohio Facility. There are a number of risks associated with continuing to operate the Ohio Facility, including increased operating expenses, risks related to systems capabilities at the Ohio Facility and risks related to the ability of the third-party distribution center operations company to appropriately staff the Ohio Facility with both union and non-union employees on reasonable and appropriate terms. We also have limited ability to control our third-party distribution center operations company, and such company may take actions with respect to its employees without our approval and may not maintain good relations with its employees and unions. Issues that arise in connection with the operation of our Ohio Facility could cause supply disruptions and other logistical issues and could therefore have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our international sourcing operations are subject to a variety of legal, regulatory, political and economic risks, including risks relating to the importation and exportation of product. We source most of our products outside the US through arrangements with independent suppliers in 17 countries as of December 28, 2013. There are a number of risks associated with importing our products, including but not limited to the following: •the potential reimposition of quotas, which could limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from a given country, in the context of a trade retaliatory case; •changes in social, political, legal and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; •the imposition of additional regulations, or the administration of existing regulations, relating to products which are imported, exported or otherwise distributed; •the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges or other trade barriers on imports or exports; •risks of increased sourcing costs, including costs for materials and labor and such increases potentially resulting from the elimination of quota on apparel products; •our ability to adapt to and compete effectively in the current quota environment, in which general quota has expired on apparel products, resulting in changing in sourcing patterns and lowered barriers to entry, but political activities which could result in the reimposition of quotas or other restrictive measures have been initiated or threatened; •significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; •the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and •the enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations, or executive action affecting international textile agreements, including the US reevaluation of the trading status of certain countries and/or retaliatory duties, quotas or other trade sanctions, which, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries. Any one of these or similar factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and current business practices. We face risks associated with operating in international markets. Approximately 9.8% of the revenues of our KATE SPADE segment were generated by operations outside the U.S. during the 2013 fiscal year. Our ability to operate and be successful in new international markets and to operate and maintain the current level of sales in our existing international markets, including with respect to the KATE SPADE family of brands in Japan, China and Brazil, is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, adapting to local customs and culture, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets, political instability and terrorist attacks, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, currency risks and general economic conditions in specific countries and markets. Any one of these or similar factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and current business practices. Our business and balance sheets are exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. While we generally purchase our products in US dollars, we source most of our products overseas. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies, 32 Table of Contents including currency devaluations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the US dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Our international sales, as well as our international businesses' inventory and accounts receivable levels, could be affected by currency fluctuations. In addition, with expected international expansion in our KATE SPADE family of brands, we may increase our exposure to such fluctuations. Although we from time to time hedge a portion of our exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. A material disruption in our information technology systems and e-commerce operations could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We rely extensively on our information technology ("IT") systems to track inventory, manage our supply chain, record and process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. The failure of IT systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or difficulty in integrating new systems could adversely impact our business. In addition, our IT systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer, network and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and usage errors by our employees. If our IT systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations in the interim. Any material disruption in our IT systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations, as well as our ability to effect the transitions of the recently sold businesses. Privacy breaches and liability for online content could negatively affect our reputation, credibility and business. We rely on third party computer hardware, software and fulfillment operations for our e-commerce operations and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. There is a growing concern over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. Despite the implementation of reasonable security measures by us and our third party providers, these sites and systems may be susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally-identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, reduce our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. Additionally, as the number of users of forums and social media features on our websites increases, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material posted on our websites by users and other third parties. Finally, we could incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws regarding unauthorized disclosure of personal information and, if we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies. We may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft. A growing portion of our customer orders are placed through our e-commerce websites. In addition, a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales require us and other parties involved in processing transactions to collect and to securely transmit certain customer data, such as credit card information, over public networks. Third parties may have the ability to breach the security of customer transaction data. Although we take the security of our systems and the privacy of our customers' confidential information seriously, there can be no assurances that our security measures will effectively prevent others from obtaining unauthorized access to our information and our customers' information. Any security breach could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our website or stores and choose not to 33 Table of Contents purchase from us. Any security breach could also expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, any of which could harm our business. We rely on third parties to provide us with services in connection with the administration of certain aspects of our business. We have entered into agreements with third party service providers, both domestic and overseas, to provide processing and administrative functions over a broad range of areas, and we may continue to do so in the future. These areas include finance and accounting, information technology, human resources, buying/sourcing, distribution functions, and e-commerce. Services provided by third parties could be interrupted as a result of many factors, including contract disputes. Any failure by third parties to provide us with these services on a timely basis or within our service level expectations and performance standards could result in a disruption of our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, to the extent we are unable to maintain these arrangements, we would incur substantial costs, including costs associated with hiring new employees, in order to return these services in-house or to transition the services to other third parties. Our ability to utilize all or a portion of our US deferred tax assets may be limited significantly if we experience an "ownership change." As of December 28, 2013, we had US federal deferred tax assets of approximately $503.3 million, which include net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards and other items which could be considered net unrealized built in losses ("NUBIL"). Among other factors, our ability to utilize our NOL and/or our NUBIL items to offset future taxable income may be limited significantly if we experience an "ownership change" as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in ownership of our stock by "5-percent shareholders" (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. The limitation arising from an "ownership change" under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our US deferred tax assets depends on the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change. We continue to monitor changes in our ownership and do not believe we have a change in control as of December 28, 2013. If all or a portion of our deferred tax assets are subject to limitation because we experience an ownership change, depending on the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change, our future cash flows could be adversely impacted due to increased tax liability. As of December 28, 2013, substantially all tax benefit of the US deferred tax assets has been offset with a full valuation allowance that was recognized in our financial statements. The outcome of current and future litigations and other proceedings in which we are involved may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. We are a party to several litigations and other proceedings and claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. We may in the future become party to other claims and legal actions which, either individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. In addition, any of the current or possible future legal proceedings in which we may be involved could require significant management and financial resources, which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 