Item 1A Risk Factors 21 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2 Properties 34 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 34 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 39 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 66 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 67 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 67 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 67 Item 9B Other Information 68 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 68 Item 11 Executive Compensation 68 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 68 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 69 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 69 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 69 Signatures 74 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule F-1 EX-10.C EX-21 EX-23 EX-31.A EX-31.B EX-32.A EX-32.B EX-99 2 Table of Contents STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, future filings by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), our press releases, and oral statements made by, or with the approval of, our authorized personnel, that relate to our future performance or future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are indicated by words or phrases such as “intend,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “estimate,” “target,” “project,” “expect,” “believe,” “we are optimistic that we can,” “current visibility indicates that we forecast” or “currently envisions” and similar phrases. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding, among other items: • our ability to continue to have the necessary liquidity, through cash flows from operations and availability under our amended and restated revolving credit facility, may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including the level of our operating cash flows, our ability to maintain established levels of availability under, and to comply with the financial and other covenants included in, our amended and restated revolving credit facility and the borrowing base requirement in our amended and restated revolving credit facility that limits the amount of borrowings we may make based on a formula of, among other things, eligible accounts receivable and inventory; the minimum availability covenant in our amended and restated revolving credit facility that requires us to maintain availability in excess of an agreed upon level and whether holders of our Convertible Notes issued in June 2009 will, if and when such notes are convertible, elect to convert a substantial portion of such notes, the par value of which we must currently settle in cash; • general economic conditions in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world; • lower levels of consumer confidence, consumer spending and purchases of discretionary items, including fashion apparel and related products, such as ours; • continued restrictions in the credit and capital markets, which would impair our ability to access additional sources of liquidity, if needed; • changes in the cost of raw materials, labor, advertising and transportation which could impact prices of our products; • our dependence on a limited number of large US department store customers, and the risk of consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and other ownership changes in the retail industry and financial difficulties at our larger department store customers; • our ability to successfully implement our long-term strategic plans; • our ability to effect a turnaround of our MEXX Europe business; • our ability to successfully re-launch our LUCKY BRAND product offering; • our ability to anticipate and respond to constantly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends, across multiple brands, product lines, shopping channels and geographies; • our ability to attract and retain talented, highly qualified executives, and maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees, both union and non-union; • exposure to multiemployer union pension plan liability as a result of current market conditions and possible withdrawal liabilities; • our ability to adequately establish, defend and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights; • our ability to successfully develop or acquire new product lines or enter new markets or product categories, and risks related to such new lines, markets or categories; • risks associated with the licensing arrangements with J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. and J.C. Penney Company, Inc. and with QVC, Inc., including, without limitation, our ability to efficiently change our operational model and infrastructure as a result of such licensing arrangements, our ability to continue a good working relationship with these licensees and possible changes or disputes in our other brand relationships or relationships with other retailers and existing licensees as a result; 3 Table of Contents • the impact of the highly competitive nature of the markets within which we operate, both within the US and abroad; • our reliance on independent foreign manufactures, including the risk of their failure to comply with safety standards or our policies regarding labor practices; • risks associated with our agreement with Li & Fung Limited, which results in a single foreign buying/sourcing agent for a significant portion of our products; • a variety of legal, regulatory, political and economic risks, including risks related to the importation and exportation of product, tariffs and other trade barriers, to which our international operations are subject; • our ability to adapt to and compete effectively in the current quota environment in which general quota has expired on apparel products but political activity seeking to re-impose quota has been initiated or threatened; • our exposure to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations; • risks associated with material disruptions in our information technology systems; • risks associated with privacy breaches; • limitation on our ability to utilize all or a portion of our US deferred tax assets if we experience an “ownership change”; and • the outcome of current and future litigations and other proceedings in which we are involved. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations only and are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in “Item 1A — Risk Factors.” We may change our intentions, beliefs or expectations at any time and without notice, based upon any change in our assumptions or otherwise. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. In addition, some factors are beyond our control. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. WEBSITE ACCESS TO COMPANY REPORTS Our investor website can be accessed at www.lizclaiborneinc.com under “Investor Relations.” Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor website under the caption “SEC Filings” promptly after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish such materials to, the SEC. No information contained on any of our websites is intended to be included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information relating to corporate governance at our Company, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Ethics and Business Practices for all directors, officers, and employees, and information concerning our directors, Committees of the Board, including Committee charters, and transactions in Company securities by directors and executive officers, is available at our investor website under the captions “Corporate Governance” and “SEC Filings.” Paper copies of these filings and corporate governance documents are available to stockholders free of charge by written request to Investor Relations, Liz Claiborne, Inc., 1441 Broadway, New York, New York 10018. Documents filed with the SEC are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. We were incorporated in January 1976 under the laws of the State of Delaware. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Liz Claiborne,” “our,” “us,” “we” and “the Company” mean Liz Claiborne, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 1. All references to “2010” represent the 52 week fiscal year ended January 1, 2011. All references to “2009” represent the 52 week fiscal year ended January 2, 2010. All references to “2008” represent the 53 week fiscal year ended January 3, 2009. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. OVERVIEW AND NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS General Liz Claiborne, Inc. designs and markets a global portfolio of retail-based premium brands including JUICY COUTURE, KATE SPADE, LUCKY BRAND and MEXX. We also have a group of department store-based brands with consumer franchises including the LIZ CLAIBORNE and MONET families of brands, MAC & JAC, KENSIE and DANA BUCHMAN and the licensed DKNY® JEANS and DKNY® ACTIVE brands. Our operations and management structure reflect a brand-centric approach, designed to optimize the operational coordination and resource allocation of our businesses across multiple functional areas including specialty retail, outlet, concession, wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel, e-commerce and licensing. For a discussion of our segment reporting structure, see “Business Segments” below. Recent Initiatives and Business Strategy We have recently experienced a significant decrease in profitability due to declining wholesale orders in our Partnered Brands segment driven by, among other things, competition among department store retailers for “exclusivity,” operational challenges in our MEXX Europe and LUCKY BRAND businesses and the impact of the consumer environment on all our brands. In response to these challenges, we reviewed our operations to assess options to best evolve our strategy on a sustainable, go-forward basis. Additionally, we have implemented the following operational and strategic initiatives: • rationalized our brand portfolio from 43 brands in 2007 to 15 brands currently; • shifted our channel focus from primarily a department store focus in 2007 to a direct-to-consumer focus currently; • built management teams at each of our brands with track records of success at leading retailers worldwide; • developed retail capabilities throughout our organization to support our focus on Company-operated retail stores; • rationalized MEXX Europe’s distribution to eliminate unprofitable wholesale accounts and retail locations and began the repositioning of MEXX’s product back to its historical roots; • transitioned certain of our Partnered Brands (including the LIZ CLAIBORNE, CLAIBORNE and LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK brands) to licensing models with royalty payments and minimal capital requirements; • exited our LIZ CLAIBORNE branded outlet stores in the US and Puerto Rico and began exploring additional opportunities for the LIZ CLAIBORNE brand internationally; • created a more competitive cost structure through reducing staff, closing ten distribution facilities, controlling discretionary expenses, re-engineering product while maintaining high standards of design and quality and transitioning our supply chain cost structure to a more variable cost model; • rationalized our sourcing and supply chain structure by entering into buying/sourcing agency arrangements with Li & Fung Limited (“Li & Fung”); and • enhanced our liquidity by issuing 6.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the “Convertible Notes”) and implementing a $350.0 million amended and restated revolving credit facility that matures in August 2014, subject to certain early termination provisions which provide for earlier maturity dates if our 5.0% euro Notes due 2013 and Convertible Notes are not repaid or refinanced by certain agreed upon dates. 5 Table of Contents We have reorganized our business into a brand-centric, streamlined operating model with a competitive cost structure. Nevertheless, macroeconomic challenges and uncertainty continue to dampen consumer spending and unemployment levels remain high. Therefore, we continue to focus on the careful execution of our strategic plans and seek opportunities to improve our productivity and profitability. We also continue to carefully manage liquidity with a focus on cash flow through pursuing additional cost reduction initiatives and improving our working capital efficiency. We have established our operating and financial goals based on the following strategies: • Execute MEXX Europe Turnaround. Over the past five years, MEXX Europe’s financial performance has been impacted by an unprofitable distribution strategy, its shift away from its core “metropolitan casual” product style and challenging macroeconomic trends in its core European markets. Since MEXX CEO Thomas Grote joined our Company in October 2009, Mr. Grote has recruited a new leadership team, reorganized the brand’s management around key functions, led a return to the brand’s “metropolitan casual” roots with a re-designed and re-merchandised product line focused on product quality and value, reconfigured the brand’s retail operations and in-store retail presentation, launched a functional e-commerce site and developed a marketing campaign to support the brand’s re-launch. • Reposition LUCKY BRAND. In 2009, LUCKY BRAND’s sales and profitability were impacted by a brand shift away from the brand’s core American classic denim heritage and by poor merchandise execution, which led to inefficient inventory positions in various items. Since LUCKY BRAND CEO David DeMattei joined our Company in January 2010, he has focused on leveraging LUCKY BRAND’s strong brand heritage and ensuring consistent availability of key products and sizes. Additionally, the team is developing various non-denim categories, transforming the brand’s in-store experience at its retail locations and introduced a direct marketing and national advertising campaign. • Grow KATE SPADE. We have developed KATE SPADE into a brand that is positioned for profitable growth. Our strategic initiatives for KATE SPADE include growing the apparel category following its successful 2009 category launch, opening new retail locations in our new 5th Avenue specialty store format and refreshing our outlet stores, introducing new products and categories such as the brand’s new licensed fragrance, Twirl, growing the JACK SPADE brand, increasing international sales in Japan and new markets and growing e-commerce sales. • Re-energize JUICY COUTURE. In September 2010, we announced the appointment of JUICY COUTURE’s new President and Creative Director, LeAnn Nealz, to set the creative vision for the brand and bring fresh, new execution. Throughout the year, JUICY COUTURE will continue to broaden the distribution of the “BIRD BY JUICY COUTURE” collection, introduce new product lines and categories as appropriate, license additional product categories, continue to grow internationally and capitalize on the brand’s e-commerce site, Juicycouture.com. • Focus on Cash Flow Generation. We are focused on driving operating cash flow generation through consistent profitability of our brands, cost reductions, efficient use of working capital and the transition of various of our Partnered Brands to long-term licensing arrangements with royalty payments. Business Segments Our segment reporting structure reflects a brand-focused approach, designed to optimize the operational coordination and resource allocation of our businesses across multiple functional areas including specialty retail, retail outlets, concessions, wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel, e-commerce and licensing. The three reportable segments described below represent our brand-based activities for which separate financial information is available and which is utilized on a regular basis by our chief operating decision maker to evaluate performance and allocate resources. In identifying our reportable segments, we consider economic characteristics, as well as products, customers, sales growth potential and long-term profitability. We aggregate our six operating segments to form reportable segments, where applicable. As such, we report our operations in three reportable segments as follows: • Domestic-Based Direct Brands segment — consists of the specialty retail, outlet, wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel (including accessories, jewelry and handbags), e-commerce and licensing operations 6 Table of Contents of our three domestic, retail-based operating segments: JUICY COUTURE, KATE SPADE and LUCKY BRAND. • International-Based Direct Brands segment — consists of the specialty retail, outlet, concession, wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel (including accessories, jewelry and handbags), e-commerce and licensing operations of MEXX Europe and MEXX Canada, our two international, retail-based operating segments. • Partnered Brands segment — consists of one operating segment including the wholesale apparel, wholesale non-apparel, licensing, outlet, concession and e-commerce operations of our AXCESS, CLAIBORNE, DANA BUCHMAN, KENSIE, LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK, MAC & JAC, MARVELLA, MONET, TRIFARI and our licensed DKNY® JEANS and DKNY® ACTIVE brands, among others. We, as licensor, also license to third parties the right to produce and market products bearing certain Company-owned trademarks; the resulting royalty income is included within the results of the associated segment. International sales represented 33.7% of our total sales in 2010. Our international operations are subject to the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and consist principally of our MEXX Europe and MEXX Canada operations, as well as the introduction of certain of our US-based brands into Europe, Canada and, to a lesser extent, Asia, the Middle East, Central America and South America. See Notes 1 and 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Domestic-Based Direct Brands segment — includes the following brands: JUICY COUTURE Our JUICY COUTURE brand offers luxurious, casual and fun women’s and children’s apparel, as well as accessories and jewelry under various JUICY COUTURE trademarks. JUICY COUTURE products are sold predominately through wholly-owned specialty retail and outlet stores, select upscale specialty retail stores and department stores throughout the US, through a network of distributors and owned and licensed retail stores in Asia, Canada, Europe, South America and the Middle East, as well as through our JUICY COUTURE e-commerce website. In addition, JUICY COUTURE has existing licensing agreements for fragrances, footwear, optics, watches, swimwear and baby products. KATE SPADE Our KATE SPADE brand offers fashion products (accessories, apparel and jewelry) for women and men under the KATE SPADE and JACK SPADE trademarks, respectively. These products are sold primarily in the US through wholly-owned specialty retail and outlet stores, select specialty retail and upscale department stores, through a network of distributors in Asia, our recently established operations in Brazil and through our KATE SPADE e-commerce website, as well as through a joint venture in Japan. KATE SPADE’s product line includes handbags, small leather goods, fashion accessories, jewelry and apparel. In addition, KATE SPADE has existing licensing agreements for footwear, optics, fragrances, tabletop products, legwear, electronics cases, bedding and stationery. JACK SPADE products include briefcases, travel bags, small leather goods and apparel. LUCKY BRAND Our LUCKY BRAND offers women’s and men’s denim and casual sportswear, as well as accessories and jewelry, under various LUCKY BRAND trademarks. LUCKY BRAND products are available for sale at wholly-owned specialty retail and outlet stores in the US and Canada, select department and better specialty stores and our LUCKY BRAND e-commerce website. In addition, LUCKY BRAND has existing licensing agreements for fragrances, neckwear, swimwear, hats and footwear. 7 Table of Contents International-Based Direct Brands segment — includes our MEXX brand. MEXX Our MEXX brand, which is headquartered in the Netherlands, offers a wide range of men’s, women’s and children’s fashion apparel and accessories under the MEXX trademark for sale outside of the US, principally in Europe and Canada. MEXX has existing licensing agreements for fragrances, eyewear, bed and bath products, carpets, socks and stationery. Partnered Brands segment — includes the following brands: AXCESS, fashion-forward men’s and women’s apparel and accessories presently sold principally in Kohl’s Corporation (“Kohl’s”) department stores, but will not be distributed by Kohl’s after the spring/summer 2011 season. LIZ CLAIBORNE and CLAIBORNE, merchandise in the product categories covered by the license agreement with J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. and J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (collectively, “JCPenney”) is sold exclusively through JCPenney (subject to pre-existing licenses and certain limited exceptions) in the US and Puerto Rico. LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK, women’s career and casual sportswear and accessories are available for sale through a license agreement on the QVC, Inc. (“QVC”) television network. MARVELLA, a jewelry line sold primarily in Target Corporation stores. MONET, a signature jewelry brand for women sold in department stores as well as in our own outlet stores and online. TRIFARI, a signature jewelry brand for women sold primarily in mid-tier department stores. DANA BUCHMAN, a classic lifestyle collection of women’s sportswear, accessories, intimate apparel and footwear. Pursuant to an exclusive license agreement with Kohl’s, which names Kohl’s as the exclusive retailer of the DANA BUCHMAN brand, we design the products under the license and Kohl’s leads the manufacturing, production, distribution and marketing of product. However, we continue to source and distribute jewelry under the DANA BUCHMAN brand. KENSIE offers modern, fashionable, high-quality, contemporary apparel for women primarily through select specialty and department stores in the US and Canada. MAC & JAC offers modern, fashionable, high-quality apparel for women and men primarily through select specialty and department stores in the US and Canada. DKNY® ACTIVE offers junior’s, men’s and women’s activewear for sale at department stores and specialty stores in the Western Hemisphere, pursuant to the exclusive license we hold to design, produce, market and sell these products. DKNY® JEANS offers junior’s, men’s and women’s jeans and junior’s and women’s sportswear for sale at department stores and specialty stores in the Western Hemisphere, pursuant to the exclusive license we hold to design, produce, market and sell these products. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our commitments under our DKNY® ACTIVE and DKNY® JEANS license agreement. This license agreement will expire by its terms in 2012, unless renewed. Specialty Retail Stores: As of January 1, 2011, we operated a total of 482 specialty retail stores under various Company trademarks, consisting of 291 retail stores within the US and 191 retail stores outside of the US (primarily in Western Europe and Canada). 8 Table of Contents The following table sets forth select information, as of January 1, 2011, with respect to our specialty retail stores: US Specialty Retail Stores Approximate Number of Average Store Specialty Store Format Stores Size (Square Feet) LUCKY BRAND 177 2,500 JUICY COUTURE 71 3,400 KATE SPADE 38 2,400 JACK SPADE 5 960 Foreign Specialty Retail Stores Approximate Number of Average Store Specialty Store Format Stores Size (Square Feet) MEXX Europe 131 4,500 MEXX Canada 41 5,600 LUCKY BRAND 12 2,400 MONET 3 1,100 JUICY COUTURE 3 870 KATE SPADE 1 2,400 Outlet Stores: As of January 1, 2011, we operated a total of 213 outlet stores under various Company-owned and licensed trademarks, consisting of 117 outlet stores within the US and 96 outlet stores outside of the US (primarily in Western Europe and Canada). The following table sets forth select information, as of January 1, 2011, with respect to our outlet stores: US Outlet Stores(a) Approximate Number of Average Store Outlet Store Format Stores Size (Square Feet) JUICY COUTURE 49 3,300 LUCKY BRAND 38 2,800 KATE SPADE 29 2,100 KENSIE 1 2,500 (a) Excludes 43 LIZ CLAIBORNE branded outlet stores in the United States and Puerto Rico and 1 DKNY® JEANS branded outlet store that were closed in January 2011. Foreign Outlet Stores Approximate Number of Average Store Outlet Store Format Stores Size (Square Feet) MEXX Canada 56 5,800 MEXX Europe 37 4,000 JUICY COUTURE 3 1,500 9 Table of Contents Concession Stores: Outside of North America, we operate concession stores in select retail stores, which are either owned or leased by a third-party department store or specialty store retailer. As of January 1, 2011, the Company operated a total of 420 concession stores in Europe. The following table sets forth select information, as of January 1, 2011, with respect to our concession stores: Foreign Concessions(a) Concession Store Format Number of Stores MONET Jewelry 277 MEXX Europe 138 JUICY COUTURE 5 (a) Excludes 29 LIZ CLAIBORNE concession stores that we expect to close in the first quarter of 2011. E-Commerce: Our products are sold on a number of branded websites. E-commerce was an important business driver in 2010. In particular, the juicycouture.com website, which was previously operated by a third party agreement through a wholesale customer, is now operating under a contract directly with the web platform service provider. In addition, the MONET and KENSIE e-commerce sites were launched in 2010. The sites were fully integrated into the business, enabling e-commerce information to be reported as a component of direct-to-consumer sales in concert with our retail stores and concessions going forward. We also operate several websites that only provide information about our merchandise but do not sell directly to customers. The following table sets forth select information concerning our branded websites: Information and Direct to Website Information Only Consumer Sales www.dknyjeans.com ü www.jackspade.com ü www.juicycouture.com ü www.katespade.com ü www.kensie.com ü www.kensiegirl.com ü www.lizclaiborneinc.com(a) ü www.loveisnotabuse.com(b) ü www.luckybrand.com ü www.macandjac.com ü www.mexx.com ü www.mexx.ca ü www.monet.com ü (a) This website offers investors information concerning the Company. (b) This website provides information and resources to address domestic violence matters. Licensing: We license many of our brands to third parties with expertise in certain specialized products and/or market segments, thereby extending each licensed brand’s market presence. As of January 1, 2011, we had 59 license arrangements, pursuant to which third-party licensees produce merchandise under Company trademarks in accordance with designs furnished or approved by us, the present terms of which (not including renewal terms) 10 Table of Contents expire at various dates through 2020. Each of the licenses earns revenue based on a percentage of the licensee’s sales of the licensed products against a guaranteed minimum royalty, which generally increases over the term of the agreement. Income from our licensing operations is included in net sales for the segment under which the license resides. In October 2009, we entered into a multi-year license agreement with JCPenney, which granted JCPenney an exclusive right and license (subject to pre-existing licenses and certain limited exceptions) to use the LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ & CO., CLAIBORNE and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE trademarks with respect to covered product categories and included the worldwide manufacturing of the licensed products and the sale, marketing, merchandising, advertising and promotion of the licensed products in the US and Puerto Rico. Under the agreement, JCPenney may only use designs provided or approved by us. The agreement has a term that may remain in effect up to July 31, 2020. Sales by JCPenney under the agreement commenced in August 2010. At the end of year five, JCPenney will have the option to acquire the trademarks and other LIZ CLAIBORNE brands for use in the US and Puerto Rico. JCPenney will also have the option to take ownership of the trademarks in the same territory at the end of year 10. JCPenney also has an option to take ownership of the same trademarks in the same territory if we fail to maintain the brand positioning for the LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK trademark, pursuant to the terms of the agreement. The license agreement provides for the payment to us of royalties based on net sales of licensed products by JCPenney and a portion of the related gross profit when the gross profit percentage exceeds a specified rate, subject to a minimum annual payment. In October 2009, we also entered into a multi-year license agreement with QVC, granting rights (subject to pre-existing licenses) to certain of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. QVC has the rights to use the LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK brand with Isaac Mizrahi as creative director on any apparel, accessories, or home categories in its US and international markets. QVC merchandises and sources the product and we provide brand management oversight. The agreement provides for the payment to us of a royalty based on net sales of licensed products by QVC. 11 Table of Contents The following table sets forth information with respect to other select aspects of our licensed brands: Products Brands Baby Buggies JUICY COUTURE Bed & Bath KATE SPADE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; MEXX Belts AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; KENSIE; KENSIE GIRL; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK Cold Weather Accessories KENSIE; KENSIE GIRL; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK; LUCKY BRAND Cosmetics & Fragrances BORA BORA; CURVE; JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE; LUCKY BRAND; MAMBO; MEXX; REALITIES Costume Jewelry KENSIE GIRL Decorative Fabrics LIZ CLAIBORNE Denim KENSIE Dress Shirts AXCESS Electronics Cases JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE; LUCKY BRAND Flooring/Area Rugs MEXX Footwear AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE; KENSIE GIRL; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ CLAIBORNE FLEX; LUCKY BRAND Handbags KENSIE GIRL Hard Tabletop KATE SPADE Intimate Apparel/Underwear KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LUCKY BRAND; MAC & JAC Kids/Baby JUICY COUTURE Legwear and Socks AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; KATE SPADE; MEXX Luggage CLAIBORNE; LIZ CLAIBORNE Men’s Accessories AXCESS; CLAIBORNE Neckwear/Scarves AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; LUCKY BRAND Optics CLAIBORNE; COMPOSITES — A CLAIBORNE COMPANY; COMPOSITES — A LIZ CLAIBORNE COMPANY; CRAZY HORSE; DANA BUCHMAN; JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZWEAR; LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK; LUCKY BRAND; MEXX; SIGRID OLSEN Outerwear AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; CLASSICS — A CLAIBORNE COMPANY CLASSICS BY LIZ CLAIBORNE; COMPOSITES A CLAIBORNE COMPANY; COMPOSITES BY LIZ CLAIBORNE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK; LIZWEAR; MAC & JAC; STUDIO BY LIZ CLAIBORNE; STUDIO — A CLAIBORNE COMPANY Sleepwear/Loungewear AXCESS; CLAIBORNE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZWEAR; LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK; LUCKY BRAND; MAC & JAC Stationery and Paper Goods KATE SPADE; MEXX Sunglasses CLAIBORNE; DANA BUCHMAN; JUICY COUTURE; KATE SPADE; KENSIE; LIZ CLAIBORNE; LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK; LUCKY BRAND; MAC & JAC; MEXX; SIGRID OLSEN Swimwear JUICY COUTURE; LUCKY BRAND Tailored Clothing AXCESS Watches JUICY COUTURE; LUCKY BRAND Window Treatments KATE SPADE 12 Table of Contents SALES AND MARKETING Domestic sales accounted for 66.3% of our 2010 and 67.7% of our 2009 net sales. Our domestic wholesale sales are made primarily to department store chains and specialty retail store customers. Direct-to-consumer sales are made through our own retail and outlet stores and e-commerce websites. Wholesale sales are also made to international customers, military exchanges and to other channels of distribution. International sales accounted for 33.7% of 2010 net sales, as compared to 32.3% in 2009. In Europe, wholesale sales are made primarily to department store and specialty retail store customers. Direct-to-consumer sales are made through concession stores within department store locations, as well as our own retail and outlet stores and e-commerce websites. In Canada, wholesale sales are made primarily to department store chains and specialty retail stores, and direct-to-consumer sales are made through our own retail and outlet stores. In other international markets, including Asia, the Middle East and Central and South America, we operate principally through third party licensees, virtually all of which purchase products from us for re-sale at freestanding retail stores and dedicated department store shops they operate. We also have a direct-to-consumer and wholesale presence through distribution agreements, a joint venture in Japan and our own retail stores. During 2010, we continued our domestic in-store sales, marketing and merchandising programs designed to encourage multiple item regular price sales, build one-on-one relationships with consumers and maintain our merchandise presentation standards. These programs train sales associates on suggested selling techniques, product, merchandise presentation and client development strategies and are offered for JUICY COUTURE, KATE SPADE and LUCKY BRAND. Our retail stores reflect the distinct personalities of each brand, offering a unique shopping experience and exclusive merchandise. Marketing for these brands is focused on reinforcing brand relevance, increasing awareness, engaging consumers and guiding them to our retail stores and e-commerce sites. We use a variety of marketing strategies to enhance our brand equity and promote our brands. These initiatives include direct mail, in-store events and internet marketing, including the use of social media. We incurred expenses of $93.3 million, $90.3 million and $132.8 million for advertising, marketing and promotion for all brands in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Wholesale sales (before allowances) to our 100 largest customers accounted for 73.9% of 2010 wholesale sales (before allowances) (or 47.0% of net sales), as compared to 75.4% of 2009 wholesale sales (before allowances) (or 54.9% of net sales). No single customer accounted for more than 7.3% of wholesale sales (before allowances) (or 4.6% of net sales) for 2010 as compared to 7.3% of wholesale sales (before allowances) (or 5.3% of net sales) for 2009, except for Macy’s, Inc., which accounted for 10.0% and 13.2% of wholesale sales (before allowances) for 2010 and 2009, respectively, or 6.4% and 9.6% of net sales for 2010 and 2009, respectively (see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Many major department store groups make centralized buying decisions; accordingly, any material change in our relationship with any such group could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our wholesale sales. Sales to our domestic department and specialty retail store customers are made primarily through our New York City and Los Angeles showrooms. Internationally, sales to our department and specialty retail store customers are made through several of our showrooms, including those in the Netherlands, Germany, Canada and the United Kingdom. Orders from our customers generally precede the related shipping periods by several months. Our largest customers discuss with us retail trends and their plans regarding their anticipated levels of total purchases of our products for future seasons. These discussions are intended to assist us in planning the production and timely delivery of our products. We continually monitor retail sales in order to directly assess consumer response to our products. We utilize in-stock reorder programs in several divisions to enable customers to reorder certain items through electronic means for quick delivery, as discussed below in the section entitled “Buying/Sourcing.” Many of our customers participate in our in-stock reorder programs through their own internal replenishment systems. In 2010, we continued our domestic in-store shop and fixture programs, which are designed to enhance the presentation of our products on department store selling floors generally through the use of proprietary fixturing, merchandise presentations and graphics. In-store shops operate under the following brand names: DKNY® JEANS, 13 Table of Contents JACK SPADE, JUICY COUTURE, KATE SPADE, KENSIE, KENSIE GIRL, LUCKY BRAND, MAC & JAC and MEXX. Our accessories operations also offer an in-store shop and fixture program. In 2010, we installed an aggregate of 324 in-store shops. We plan to install an aggregate of 300 additional in-store shops in 2011. For further information concerning our domestic and international sales, see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview.” BUYING/SOURCING Pursuant to a buying/sourcing agency agreement, Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel and accessories buying/sourcing agent for all brands in our portfolio, with the exception of our jewelry product lines. Our agreement with Li & Fung provides for a refund of a portion of the 2009 closing payment in certain limited circumstances, including a change of control of the Company, the sale or discontinuation of any current brand, or certain termination events. We are also obligated to use Li & Fung as our buying/sourcing agent for a minimum value of inventory purchases each year through the termination of the agreement in 2019. The licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC resulted in the removal of buying/sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung buying/sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we refunded $24.3 million of the closing payment received from Li & Fung in the second quarter of 2010. We pay to Li & Fung an agency commission based on the cost of product purchases using Li & Fung as our buying/sourcing agent. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. Products produced in Asia represent a substantial majority of our purchases. We also source product in the US and other regions. During 2010, approximately 500 suppliers located in 50 countries manufactured our products, with the largest finished goods supplier accounting for less than 7.0% of the total of finished goods we purchased. Purchases from our suppliers are processed utilizing individual purchase orders specifying the price and quantity of the items to be produced. Most of our products are purchased as completed product “packages” from our manufacturing contractors, where the contractor purchases all necessary raw materials and other product components, according to our specifications. When we do not purchase “packages,” we obtain fabrics, trimmings and other raw materials in bulk from various foreign and domestic suppliers, which are delivered to our manufacturing contractors for use in our products. We do not have any long-term, formal arrangements with any supplier of raw materials. To date, we have experienced little difficulty in satisfying our raw material requirements and consider our sources of supply adequate. We operate under substantial time constraints in producing each of our collections. In order to deliver, in a timely manner, merchandise which reflects current tastes, we attempt to schedule a substantial portion of our materials and manufacturing commitments relatively late in the production cycle, thereby favoring suppliers able to make quick adjustments in response to changing production needs and in time to take advantage of favorable (cost effective) shipping alternatives. However, in order to secure necessary materials and to schedule production time at manufacturing facilities, we must make substantial advance commitments prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers for the items to be produced. These advance commitments may have lead times in excess of five months. We continue to seek to reduce the time required to move products from design to the customer. If we misjudge our ability to sell our products, we could be faced with substantial outstanding fabric and/or manufacturing commitments, resulting in excess inventories. See “Item 1A — Risk Factors.” Our arrangements with Li & Fung and with our foreign suppliers are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations and revaluations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, terrorist activities, pandemic disease and, in certain parts of the world, political, economic and currency instability. Our operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date. However, due to the very substantial portion of our products that are produced abroad, any substantial disruption of our relationships with our foreign suppliers could adversely affect our operations. In addition, as Li & Fung is the buying/sourcing agent for a significant portion of our products, we are subject to the risk of having to rebuild such buying/sourcing capacity or find another agent or 14 Table of Contents agents to replace Li & Fung in the event the agreement with Li & Fung terminates, or if Li & Fung is unable to fulfill its obligations under the agreement. In addition, as we rely on independent manufacturers, a manufacturer’s failure to ship product to us in a timely manner, or to meet quality or safety standards, could cause us to miss delivery dates to our retail stores or our wholesale customers. Failure to make deliveries on time could cause our retail customers to expect more promotions and our wholesale customers to seek reduced prices, cancel orders or refuse deliveries, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain internal staff responsible for overseeing product safety compliance, irrespective of our agency agreement with Li & Fung. Additionally, we are a certified and validated member of the United States Customs and Border Protection’s Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (“C-TPAT”) program and expect all of our suppliers shipping to the United States to adhere to our C-TPAT requirements, including standards relating to facility security, procedural security, personnel security, cargo security and the overall protection of the supply chain. In the event a supplier does not comply with our C-TPAT requirements, or if we determine that the supplier will be unable to correct a deficiency, we may terminate our business relationship with the supplier. IMPORTS AND IMPORT RESTRICTIONS Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the United States, Canada, Europe and South America is subject to duties. The United States may unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries) in such increased quantities as to cause (or threaten) serious damage to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as “anti-dumping” actions). Furthermore, additional duties, generally known as countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the US Government to offset subsidies provided by a foreign government to foreign manufacturers if the importation of such subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a US industry. Legislative proposals have been put forward which, if adopted, would treat a manipulation by China of the value of its currency as actionable under the antidumping or countervailing duty laws. Effective January 1, 2011, the European Commission enforces a new customs import regulation which requires all traders to provide European Union customs with security data through electronic declarations before goods are brought into, or out of, the European Union. This new rule simplifies and automates customs procedures while increasing security for import of goods into and out of the 27 member states of the European Union. The scope of the mandate includes all import and export shipments via all modes of transportation. We are also subject to other international trade agreements and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Central American Free Trade Agreement and the Caribbean Basin Initiative and other “special trade programs.” Each of the countries in which our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports. Because the US and the other countries into which our products are imported and sold may, from time to time, impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges or other import controls or restrictions, including the imposition of “safeguard quota,” “safeguard duties,” or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates or levels on products being imported from other countries, we maintain a program of intensive monitoring of import restrictions and opportunities. We strive to reduce our potential exposure to import related risks through, among other things, adjustments in product design and fabrication and shifts of production among countries and manufacturers. In light of the very substantial portion of our products that is manufactured by foreign suppliers, the enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations, executive action affecting textile agreements, or changes in sourcing patterns or quota provisions, could adversely affect our operations. Although we generally expect that the elimination of quota will result, over the long term, in an overall reduction in the cost of apparel produced abroad, the implementation of any “safeguard quota provisions,” “countervailing duties,” any “anti-dumping” actions or any other actions impacting international trade may result, over the near term, in cost increases for certain categories of products and in disruption of the supply chain for certain product categories. See “Item 1A — Risk Factors.” Apparel and other products sold by us are also subject to regulation in the US and other countries by other governmental agencies, including, in the US, the Federal Trade Commission, US Fish and Wildlife Service and the Consumer Products Safety Commission. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, content and safety requirements, licensing requirements and flammability testing. We believe that we are in substantial compliance 15 Table of Contents with those regulations, as well as applicable federal, state, local, and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in the current year or in the near future. Our licensed products, licensing partners and buying/sourcing agents are also subject to regulation. Our agreements require our licensing partners and buying/sourcing agents to operate in compliance with all laws and regulations and we are not aware of any violations which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial position, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. Although we have not suffered any material inhibition from doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce additional trademarks to new markets. DISTRIBUTION We distribute a substantial portion of our products through leased facilities. Our principal distribution facilities are located in Ohio, the Netherlands and Canada, as discussed in “Item 2 — Properties.” BACKLOG On February 4, 2011, our order book reflected unfilled customer orders for approximately $346.9 million of merchandise, as compared to approximately $480.6 million at February 12, 2010. These orders represent our order backlog. The amounts indicated include both confirmed and unconfirmed orders, which we believe, based on industry practice and our past experience, will be confirmed. We expect that substantially all such orders will be filled within the 2011 fiscal year. We note that the amount of order backlog at any given date is materially affected by a number of factors, including seasonality, the mix of product, the timing of the receipt and processing of customer orders and scheduling of the manufacture and shipping of the product, which in some instances is dependent on the desires of the customer. Accordingly, order book data should not be taken as providing meaningful period-to-period comparisons. However, the decline in the value of unfilled customer orders reflects our continued evolution to a business model primarily focused on retail and licensing, including the transition of our LIZ CLAIBORNE family of brands from a department store distribution model to a licensing model. 16 Table of Contents TRADEMARKS We own most of the trademarks used in connection with our businesses and products. We also act as licensee of certain trademarks owned by third parties. The following table summarizes the principal trademarks we own and/or use in connection with our businesses and products: Owned Trademarks AXCESS LIZ BIRD BY JUICY COUTURE LIZ & CO.(a) BORA BORA LIZ CLAIBORNE(a) CLAIBORNE(a) LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK(c) CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE(a) LUCKY BRAND COUTURE COUTURE LUCKY YOU LUCKY BRAND CURVE MAC & JAC DANA BUCHMAN(b) MARVELLA DIRTY ENGLISH MEXX JACK SPADE MONET JUICY COUTURE REALITIES KATE SPADE SIGRID OLSEN KENSIE TRIFARI Licensed Trademarks DKNY® ACTIVE DKNY® JEANS (a) As discussed above, JCPenney is the exclusive department store destination in the US and Puerto Rico for LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ & CO., CLAIBORNE and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE merchandise in the product categories covered by the JCPenney license agreement (which is subject to pre-existing license agreements) for up to ten years, beginning in August 2010. JCPenney has an option to purchase the rights to these trademarks in the US and Puerto Rico under certain circumstances. (b) As discussed above, Kohl’s is the exclusive retailer for our DANA BUCHMAN brand, pursuant to an exclusive license agreement. (c) As discussed above, QVC is the exclusive specialty retailer for LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK merchandise in the product categories covered by the QVC license agreement (which is subject to pre-existing license agreements) in the US. In addition, we own and/or use many other logos and secondary trademarks, such as the JUICY COUTURE crest and the LUCKY BRAND clover mark, associated with the above mentioned trademarks. We have registered, or applied for registration of, a multitude of trademarks throughout the world, including those referenced above, for use on a variety of apparel and apparel-related products, including accessories, home furnishings, cosmetics and jewelry, as well as for retail services. We regard our trademarks and other proprietary rights as valuable assets and believe that they have significant value in the marketing of our products. We vigorously protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights against infringement. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks are used in connection with the related products and services and the required registration renewals are filed. We regard the license to use the trademarks and our other proprietary rights in and to the trademarks as valuable assets in marketing our products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. As a result of the appeal of our brands, our products have from time to time been the object of counterfeiting. We have implemented an 17 Table of Contents enforcement program, which we believe has been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in the US and in major markets abroad. In markets outside of the US, our rights to some or all of our trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of our international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks, which would impede our use and registration of some of our principal trademarks. While such conflicts are common and may arise again from time to time as we continue our international expansion, we have generally successfully resolved such conflicts in the past through both legal action and negotiated settlements with third-party owners of the conflicting marks. Although we have not in the past suffered any material restraints or restrictions on doing business in desirable markets or in new product categories, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce additional brands to new markets. COMPETITION Notwithstanding our position as a large fashion apparel and related accessories company in the US, we are subject to intense competition as the apparel and related product markets are highly competitive, both within the US and abroad. We compete with numerous retailers, designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories, both domestic and foreign. We compete primarily on the basis of fashion, quality and price. Our ability to compete successfully depends upon a variety of factors, including, among other things, our ability to: • anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • develop quality and differentiated products that appeal to consumers; • appropriately price products; • establish and maintain favorable brand name and recognition; • maintain and grow market share; • establish and maintain acceptable relationships with our retail customers; • provide appropriate service and support to retailers; • provide effective marketing support and brand promotion; • appropriately determine the size and identify the location of our retail stores and department store selling space; • protect our intellectual property; and • optimize our retail and supply chain capabilities. See “Item 1A — Risk Factors.” Within our retail-focused Domestic-Based Direct Brands segment, our principal competitors vary by brand and include the following: • For JUICY COUTURE: Marc by Marc Jacobs, JCrew, Pink, Coach and Diane von Furstenberg • For LUCKY BRAND: Diesel, Guess, True Religion, 7 for all Mankind and Abercrombie & Fitch • For KATE SPADE: Coach, Diane von Furstenberg, Marc by Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors and Tory Burch The principal competitors of our retail-focused International-Based Direct Brands segment include Esprit, Zara, Marc O’Polo, S. Oliver, H&M, Tommy Hilfiger, InWear/Matinique, Street One and other global European brands. Our principal competitors in the United States for the majority of our Partnered Brands segment (LIZ CLAIBORNE and MONET families of brands and our licensed DKNY® JEANS and DKNY® ACTIVE brands) include The Jones Group, Inc., The Warnaco Group, Inc. and Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation, as well as department store private label brands. 18 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES At January 1, 2011, we had approximately 11,300 full-time employees worldwide, as compared to approximately 11,500 full-time employees at January 2, 2010. In the US and Canada, we are bound by the following collective bargaining agreements: Number of Union Employees Expiration Location Chicago and Midwest Regional Joint Board, Workers United 469 June 2011 West Chester, Ohio Affiliates of Workers United 46 May 2011 Montreal, Quebec Local 10, New York Metropolitan Area Joint Board, Workers United and Local 99, Metropolitan Distribution and Trucking Joint Board, Workers United 18 May 2012 New York, New York and North Bergen, New Jersey Affiliates of Workers United 9 May 2012 Burnaby, British Columbia While relations between us and these unions have historically been amicable, and we do not anticipate an economic dispute when the contracts reopen or expire, we cannot rule out the possibility of a labor dispute at one or more of these facilities. We contribute to a union-sponsored multiemployer defined benefit pension plan, which is regulated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”), as amended, pursuant to obligations arising under our collective bargaining agreements. For a discussion of certain risks related to this plan, see “Item 1A — Risk Factors.” CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to responsible corporate citizenship and giving back to our communities through a variety of avenues and have several programs in place that support this commitment. Monitoring Global Working Conditions We are committed to taking the actions we believe are necessary to ensure that our products are made in contracted factories with fair and decent working conditions. We continue this commitment as we operate under our buying/sourcing arrangement with Li & Fung, collaborating with Li & Fung to develop mutually acceptable audit documents and processes, training the Li & Fung audit staff on our compliance program and communicating our standards to Li & Fung suppliers and their workers. The major components of our compliance program are: (i) communicating our Standards of Engagement to workers, suppliers and associates; (ii) auditing and monitoring against those standards; (iii) providing workers with a confidential reporting channel; (iv) working with non-governmental organizations; and, most recently, (v) working closely with factory management to develop sustainable compliance programs. Suppliers are required to post our Standards of Engagement in the workers’ native language at all factories where our merchandise is being made. We have used various methods to educate workers regarding our standards and their rights, including development of booklets to better illustrate those standards and involving non-governmental organizations to train workers. The Standards of Engagement, along with detailed explanations of each standard, are included on our suppliers’ websites. All new suppliers must acknowledge our standards and agree to our monitoring requirements. We have been a participating company in the Fair Labor Association (“FLA”) since its inception. The FLA is a collaborative effort comprised of socially responsible companies, colleges and universities and civil society organizations whose collective purpose is to improve working conditions at factories around the world. The FLA has developed a Workplace Code of Conduct, based on International Labor Organization standards and has created benchmarks to monitor adherence to those standards, or to perform remediation. Its monitoring program is a brand accountability system that places responsibility on companies to voluntarily achieve desired workplace standards in factories manufacturing their goods. In May 2005, we were in the first group of six companies accredited by the FLA, and we were reaccredited in June 2008. The re-accreditation process takes place every three years and 19 Table of Contents signifies that we continue to focus our labor compliance program around FLA standards, benchmarks and protocols and have met the requirements of FLA participation. As of January 1, 2011, we had approximately 500 active factories on our roster. A total of approximately 330 were audited by our internal compliance team, Li & Fung auditors or third party auditors. In many cases, we rely on our agents’ audit reports. As such, we conduct shadow audits to confirm that audit protocols and findings are consistent between the two companies. Additionally, as a participating company in the FLA, our suppliers’ factories are also subject to independent, unannounced audits by accredited FLA monitors. We are aware that auditing only confirms compliance at the time of the audit, and we continue to look for ways to improve our monitoring program and work with suppliers to create sustainable compliance at their factories. Creating workers’ awareness and establishing a channel of communication for reporting issues of non-compliance are two important strategies. We encourage all factories to establish internal grievance procedures and give workers the opportunity to report their concerns directly to the Company. At our request, several major factories participated in FLA programs which aid in human resource management and developing internal grievance policies. More information about our monitoring program is available on our website. Philanthropic Programs We have a number of philanthropic programs that support the nonprofit sector in our major operating communities, throughout the US and in select international markets. • The Liz Claiborne Foundation, established in 1981, is a separate nonprofit legal entity supporting nonprofit organizations working with women to achieve economic independence. The Foundation supports programs in the US communities where our primary offices are located that offer essential job readiness training and increase access to tools that help women, including those affected by domestic violence, transition from poverty into successful independent living. • Liz Claiborne Associates Committed to Service (“LizACTS”) is our company-wide volunteer program that allows our associates to work collectively to respond to community needs. Our associates identify and design volunteer projects through community organizations to address the pressing needs of women and families. LizACTS teams typically coordinate volunteer activities under the general program areas of HIV/AIDS, health, the environment, homelessness, women’s issues and the needs of youth. Thousands of associates and executives join together, along with their families and friends, to contribute their time and talents. • The Merchandise Donation Program provides direct charitable support to meet community needs, primarily in the form of merchandise donations. We donate product, samples, fixtures and furniture to several types of organizations, including clothing banks, programs for women and certain charitable interests of our associates. • The Matching Gift Program supports and encourages the charitable interests of our associates. Our flexible program matches associates’ gifts at a rate of one to one in the areas of arts, health and safety, education, human services and the environment. Contributions to organizations where associates serve as voluntary board members are matched at a rate of two to one. • The Liz Claiborne, Inc. Scholarship Program provides one-time scholarships to children of our associates who have demonstrated outstanding academic achievement. Since the program’s inception in 2002, 73 scholarships have been awarded. • Love Is Not Abuse is a long-term campaign that uses our corporate profile and influence to advocate anti-violence messages to the general public. One of the first major corporate programs in the US to take a stand on the issue of domestic violence, Love is Not Abuse has targeted everyday Americans who, with the right tools and information, can help prevent violent relationships. This program is focused on providing educational resources to help young boys and girls, teenagers, college students, educators, parents, corporate executives and employees learn what they can do, individually and collectively, to curtail abuse. • KATE SPADE and Women for Women International have formed Hand In Hand, an exclusive partnership born from both organizations’ commitment to celebrating creativity, independence and individuality among 20 Table of Contents women. KATE SPADE supports Women for Women International by employing women in war-torn countries, and utilizing their traditional handcrafts in special collections, designed by the team in New York. The idea is to provide training, fair wages and dependable income in parts of the world where these opportunities are not the norm. KATE SPADE also aids the organization through retail co-marketing, promotion and events. Environmental Initiatives We are committed to a long-term sustainable approach to caring for and safeguarding the environment. As such, we endeavor to balance environmental considerations and social responsibility with our business goals, consistently evolving and implementing our Corporate Environmental Policy, in addition to complying with environmental laws and regulations. Our current sustainability policy focuses on three major components — reducing waste, reusing and recycling — to help minimize our impact on the environment and achieve our environmental objectives (additional details are available on our website). In 2010, we conducted our first carbon footprint analysis following the criteria issued by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Substantial Development. Our analysis covered our operations in the US (including offices, distribution centers and stores), and the transport of goods from domestic and foreign manufacturers to our distribution centers and stores in the US. We intend to use the findings to continue to enhance our corporate environmental strategy, as well as provide a benchmark as we continue our efforts in the future. As our business, the economy, and the environment in which we operate evolve, we remain aware of the impact our actions have on the environment and revise and enhance our environmental approach, as appropriate. Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC, in evaluating the Company and its business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may impact our business. Our ability to continue to have the necessary liquidity, through cash flows from operations and availability under our amended and restated revolving credit facility, may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including the level of our operating cash flows, our ability to maintain established levels of availability under, and to comply with the financial and other covenants included in, our amended and restated revolving credit facility and the borrowing base requirement in our amended and restated revolving credit facility that limits the amount of borrowings we may make based on a formula of, among other things, eligible accounts receivable and inventory; the minimum availability covenant in our amended and restated revolving credit facility that requires us to maintain availability in excess of an agreed upon level and whether holders of our Convertible Notes issued in June 2009 will, if and when such notes are convertible, elect to convert a substantial portion of such notes, the par value of which we must currently settle in cash. Our primary ongoing cash requirements are to: (i) fund seasonal working capital needs (primarily accounts receivable and inventory); (ii) fund capital expenditures related to the opening and refurbishing of our specialty retail and outlet stores and normal maintenance activities and the expected purchase of our Ohio distribution facility in the second quarter of 2011; (iii) fund remaining efforts associated with our streamlining initiatives, which include consolidation of office space, store closures and reductions in staff; (iv) invest in our information systems; and (v) fund general operational and contractual obligations. We also require cash to fund payments related to outstanding earn-out provisions of certain of our previous acquisitions. In May 2010, we completed a second amendment to and restatement of our revolving credit facility (as amended, the “Amended Agreement”). Under the Amended Agreement, our aggregate commitments under the facility were reduced to $350.0 million from $600.0 million, and the maturity date was extended from May 2011 to August 2014, provided that in the event that our existing Notes due July 2013 are not refinanced, purchased or 21 Table of Contents defeased prior to April 8, 2013, then the maturity date shall be April 8, 2013, and in the event that our Convertible Notes are not refinanced, purchased or defeased prior to March 15, 2014, then the maturity date shall be March 15, 2014. In both circumstances, if any such refinancing or extension provides for a maturity date that is earlier than 91 days following August 6, 2014, then the maturity date shall be the date that is 91 days prior to the maturity date of such notes. We are subject to various covenants and other requirements, such as financial requirements, reporting requirements and negative covenants. Pursuant to the Amended Agreement, we are required to maintain minimum aggregate borrowing availability of not less than $45.0 million and must apply substantially all cash collections to reduce outstanding borrowings under the amended and restated revolving credit facility when availability under the Amended Agreement falls below the greater of $65.0 million and 17.5% of the then-applicable aggregate commitments. Our borrowing availability under the Amended Agreement is determined primarily by the level of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory balances. In addition, the Amended Agreement removed the springing fixed charge coverage covenant that was a condition of the prior amended and restated revolving credit agreement. In 2010, we received $171.5 million of net income tax refunds on previously paid taxes primarily due to a Federal law change in 2009 allowing our 2008 or 2009 domestic losses to be carried back for five years, with the fifth year limited to 50.0% of taxable income. We repaid amounts outstanding under our Amended Agreement with the amount of such refunds. As a result of the US Federal tax law change extending the carryback period from two to five years and our carryback of our 2009 tax loss to 2004 and 2005, the IRS has the ability to re-open its past examinations of 2004 and 2005. As discussed above, under our Amended Agreement, we are subject to minimum borrowing availability levels and various other covenants and other requirements, such as financial requirements, reporting requirements and various negative covenants. There can be no certainty that availability under the Amended Agreement will be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. Based upon our current projections, we currently anticipate that our borrowing availability will be sufficient for at least the next 12 months. The sufficiency and availability of our sources of liquidity may be affected by a variety of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the level of our operating cash flows, which will be impacted by retailer and consumer acceptance of our products, general economic conditions and the level of consumer discretionary spending; (ii) the status of, and any further adverse changes in, our credit ratings; (iii) our ability to maintain required levels of borrowing availability and other covenants included in our debt and credit facilities; (iv) the financial wherewithal of our larger department store and specialty retail store customers; (v) our ability to successfully execute on the licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC with respect to the LIZ CLAIBORNE family of brands; (vi) interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations; and (vii) whether holders of the Convertible Notes, if and when such notes are convertible, elect to convert a substantial portion of such notes, the par value of which we must currently settle in cash. Also, our agreement with Li & Fung provides for a refund of a portion of the $75.0 million closing payment in certain limited circumstances, including a change in control of our Company, the sale or discontinuation of any of our current brands, or certain termination events. The licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC resulted in the removal of buying/sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung buying/sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we refunded $24.3 million of the closing payment during the second quarter of 2010. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. In addition, our Amended Agreement contains a borrowing base that is determined primarily by the level of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory. If we do not have a sufficient borrowing base at any given time, borrowing availability under our Amended Agreement may trigger the requirement to apply substantially all cash collections to reduce outstanding borrowings or default and also may not be sufficient to support our liquidity needs. Insufficient borrowing availability under our Amended Agreement would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Furthermore, a breach of the minimum aggregate availability covenant would trigger an immediate event of default. An acceleration of amounts outstanding under the Amended Agreement would likely cause cross-defaults under our other outstanding indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes and our Notes. We currently believe that the financial institutions under the Amended Agreement are able to fulfill their commitments, although such ability to fulfill commitments will depend on the financial condition of our lenders at the time of borrowing. 22 Table of Contents The Convertible Notes are convertible during any fiscal quarter if the last reported sale price of our common stock during 20 out of the last 30 trading days in the prior fiscal quarter equals or exceeds $4.2912 (which is 120% of the conversion price). As a result of stock price performance during the quarter ended January 1, 2011, the Convertible Notes are convertible during the first quarter of 2011. As previously disclosed in connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we have not yet obtained stockholder approval under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange for the issuance of the full amount of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. Until such approval is obtained, if the Convertible Notes are surrendered for conversion, we must pay the $1,000 par value of each of the Convertible Notes in cash and may settle the remaining conversion value in the form of cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock. Although we consider the conversion of a material amount of the Convertible Notes in the near future to be unlikely, if all or a substantial portion of the outstanding Convertible Notes were so converted and we were required to settle all of the converted Convertible Notes in cash, then we might not have sufficient liquidity to meet our obligations to pay the amounts required upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and maintain the requisite levels of availability required under the Amended Agreement. Compliance with the minimum aggregate borrowing availability covenant is dependent on the results of our operations, which are subject to a number of factors including current economic conditions and levels of consumer spending. The recent economic environment has resulted in significantly lower employment levels, disposable income and actual and/or perceived wealth, significantly lower consumer confidence and significantly reduced retail sales. Further reductions in consumer spending, as well as a failure of consumer spending levels to rise to previous levels, or a continuation or worsening of current economic conditions would adversely impact our net sales and cash flows. Should we be unable to comply with the requirements in the Amended Agreement, we would be unable to borrow under such agreement, and any amounts outstanding would become immediately due and payable unless we were able to secure a waiver or an amendment under the Amended Agreement. Should we be unable to borrow under the Amended Agreement, or if outstanding borrowings thereunder become immediately due and payable, our liquidity would be significantly impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, an acceleration of amounts outstanding under the Amended Agreement would likely cause cross-defaults under our other outstanding indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes and the Notes. Because of the continuing uncertainty and risks relating to future economic conditions, including consumer spending in particular, we may, from time to time, explore various initiatives to improve our liquidity, including issuance of debt securities, sales of various assets, additional cost reductions and other measures. In addition, where conditions permit, we may also, from time to time, seek to retire, exchange or purchase our outstanding debt in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. We may not be able to successfully complete any of such actions if necessary. General economic conditions in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world, including a continued weakening or instability of such economies, restricted credit markets and lower levels of consumer spending, can affect consumer confidence and consumer purchases of discretionary items, including fashion apparel and related products, such as ours. The economies of the United States, Europe and other parts of the world in which we operate weakened significantly as a result of the global economic crisis that began in the second half of 2008 and which persisted during 2009 and into 2010. Our results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer spending, including, but not limited to: (i) general economic and business conditions both in the United States and abroad; (ii) consumer confidence; (iii) wages and current and expected employment levels; (iv) the housing market; (v) consumer debt levels; (vi) availability of consumer credit; (vii) credit and interest rates; (viii) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (ix) fuel and energy costs; (x) energy shortages; (xi) the performance of the financial, equity and credit markets; (xii) taxes; (xiii) general political conditions, both domestic and abroad; and (xiv) the level of customer traffic within department stores, malls and other shopping and selling environments. Recent global economic conditions have included significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income and actual and/or perceived wealth and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. The current unstable economic environment has been characterized by a dramatic decline in consumer discretionary spending and has disproportionately affected retailers and sellers of 23 Table of Contents consumer goods, particularly those whose goods represent discretionary purchases, including fashion apparel and related products such as ours. While the decline in consumer spending has recently moderated, these economic conditions could still lead to continued declines in consumer spending over the foreseeable future and may have resulted in a resetting of consumer spending habits that makes it unlikely that such spending will return to prior levels for the foreseeable future. A number of our markets continue to suffer particularly severe downturns, including our Eastern European markets, which have been particularly adversely affected by conditions in the world economy, and we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant declines in revenues. Profitability of our MEXX business has been, and is expected to continue to be, even more affected by such downturn as such regions account for a significant amount of MEXX’s profitability. While we have seen intermittent signs of stabilization in both North America and internationally, there are no assurances that the global economy will continue to recover. If the global economy continues to be weak or deteriorates further, there will likely be a negative effect on our revenues, operating margins and earnings across all of our segments. Economic conditions have also led to a highly promotional environment and strong discounting pressure from both our wholesale and retail customers, which have had a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. This promotional environment may likely continue even after economic growth returns, as we expect that consumer spending trends are likely to remain at historically depressed levels for the foreseeable future. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to further decreases in consumer spending. The recent downturn and uncertain outlook in the global economy will likely continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products, as well as the price for labor, marketing and transportation, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. The prices for such fabrics depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them. Such factors may be exacerbated by legislation and regulations associated with global climate change. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher prices on to our customers. The wholesale businesses in our Direct Brands and Partnered Brands segments are dependent to a significant degree on sales to a limited number of large US department store customers, and our business could suffer as a result of consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and other ownership changes in the retail industry, financial difficulties at our large department store customers and negative reaction to our licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC. Many major department store groups make centralized buying decisions. Accordingly, any material change in our relationship with any such group could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our wholesale sales. The implementation of our licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC changed the business model of our LIZ CLAIBORNE brands from a wholesale model, in which we and a limited number of licensees manufactured goods to be sold through various retail channels, to a license model where we will not be sourcing or selling products, but instead receiving a royalty based on net sales by our license partner, and in the case of our JCPenney license, a share in gross profits over agreed upon levels. The goals of these arrangements are to revitalize the LIZ CLAIBORNE franchise, reduce working capital needs and increase earnings. These goals might not be met as we seek to implement this new business model and face risks associated with the reception of this new direction among other customers and licensees. Customers and licensees may, among other things, seek to change their relationships with our other brands or may de-emphasize our other brands, in response to our LIZ CLAIBORNE brand arrangements, which, in the case of JCPenney, include an exclusive right and license (subject to pre-existing licenses and certain limited exceptions) for the sale, marketing, merchandising, advertising and promotion of the LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ & CO., CLAIBORNE and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE merchandise in the covered product categories in the United States and Puerto Rico. Additionally, one licensee is currently alleging that the LIZ CLAIBORNE brand arrangements adversely impacted their ongoing ability to sell LIZ CLAIBORNE merchandise. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” Other licensees may make comparable allegations. In addition, our arrangements with JCPenney and QVC will make us more dependent on the financial and operational health of those companies. 24 Table of Contents Our continued partial dependence on sales to a limited number of large US department store customers is subject to our ability to respond effectively to, among other things: (i) these customers’ buying patterns, including their purchase and retail floor space commitments for apparel in general (compared with other product categories they sell) and our products specifically (compared with products offered by our competitors, including with respect to customer and consumer acceptance, pricing and new product introductions); (ii) these customers’ strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their “private label” initiatives; (iii) these customers’ desire to have us provide them with exclusive and/or differentiated designs and product mixes; (iv) these customers’ requirements for vendor margin support; (v) any credit risks presented by these customers, especially given the significant proportion of our accounts receivable they represent; and (vi) the effect of any potential consolidation among these larger customers. In addition, our sales to such customers will depend on the reaction of those customers to our licensing arrangements for the LIZ CLAIBORNE brands. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our wholesale customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to change their manner of doing business with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As a result of the recent unfavorable economic environment, we have experienced a softening of demand from a number of wholesale customers, such as large department stores, who have been highly promotional and have aggressively marked down all of their merchandise, including our products. Any promotional pricing or discounting in response to softening demand may also have a negative effect on brand image and prestige, which may be difficult to counteract once the economy improves. Furthermore, this promotional activity may lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season. Promotional activity at our wholesale customers will also often result in promotional activity at our retail stores, further eroding revenues and profitability. We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores across the United States and Europe and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail or eliminate business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to our receivables from that customer. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, the difficult macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit markets could negatively impact our customers and consumers which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We may not be able to effect a turnaround of our MEXX Europe business. We continue the process of attempting to turnaround the MEXX business in Europe. These initiatives focus on enhancing the brand by improving product appeal, more closely linking the wholesale and retail presentations, strengthening retail operations and improving our supply chain model. Despite our efforts to date, MEXX Europe continued to generate operating losses in 2010. There can be no assurances that we will be able to improve the operating results of our MEXX Europe operating segment. We may not be able to successfully re-launch our LUCKY BRAND product offering. We continue our efforts, which we began in January 2010, to reposition and drive profitability improvements for LUCKY BRAND. These efforts focus on leveraging LUCKY BRAND’s strong brand heritage and ensuring consistent availability of key products and sizes. As part of this effort, in January 2010, we hired current LUCKY BRAND CEO David DeMattei and Creative Director Patrick Wade. There can be no assurances that we will be able to improve LUCKY BRAND’s profitability. 25 Table of Contents We cannot assure the successful implementation and results of our long-term strategic plans. Our ability to execute our long-term growth plan and achieve our projected results is subject to a variety of risks, including the following: • Our strategic plan contemplated a significant expansion of our specialty retail business in our Domestic-Based Direct Brands and International-Based Direct Brands segments. The successful operation and expansion of our specialty retail business in our Direct Brands segments is subject to, among other things, our ability to: (i) successfully expand the specialty retail store base of our Direct Brands segments; (ii) successfully find appropriate sites; (iii) negotiate favorable leases; (iv) design and create appealing merchandise; (v) manage inventory levels; (vi) install and operate effective retail systems; (vii) apply appropriate pricing strategies; and (viii) integrate such stores into our overall business mix. We may not be successful in this regard, and our inability to successfully expand our specialty retail business would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In 2010, we continued to closely manage spending and opened 25 retail stores. We continue to monitor our capital spending, and plan to open 30-35 Company-owned retail stores globally in 2011. • In 2007, we announced a number of initiatives designed to achieve greater collaboration with our wholesale customers and to improve results of our wholesale-based Partnered Brands. These initiatives included design agreements with Isaac Mizrahi with respect to our LIZ CLAIBORNE brand and with John Bartlett with respect to our CLAIBORNE brand. Our wholesale customers had been seeking differentiated products, and we believed that these design agreements would enable us to distinguish our product offering. Over time, we realized that these arrangements and the traditional wholesale business model would not be the solution to improving results for our LIZ CLAIBORNE brands. In October 2009, we changed the business model for our LIZ CLAIBORNE brands from a wholesale model selling to department stores, to a license model where we no longer buy/source or sell products, but instead receive a royalty based on net sales by our license partner and, in the case of our JCPenney license agreement, a share in gross profits over agreed-upon levels. Our failure to successfully manage this new model, including as a result of any terminations of these new licensing arrangements, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results. To help us improve our sourcing and supply chain capabilities at our MEXX Europe business, in 2008, we entered into an agreement with Hong Kong-based, global consumer goods exporter Li & Fung, whereby Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel buying/sourcing agent for the MEXX brand and MEXX’s existing buying/sourcing agent offices were integrated into the Li & Fung organization. On February 23, 2009, we entered into a long-term, buying/sourcing agency agreement with Li & Fung, pursuant to which Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel and accessories buying/sourcing agent for all brands in our portfolio, with the exception of our jewelry product lines. Li & Fung continues as the primary buying/sourcing agent for MEXX. Pursuant to the agreement, we received at closing on March 31, 2009 a payment of $75.0 million and an additional payment of $8.0 million to offset specific, incremental, identifiable expenses associated with the transaction. We now pay to Li & Fung an agency commission based on the cost of our product purchases made through Li & Fung. Our buying/sourcing agent offices in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Shanghai and Shenzhen have been substantially integrated into the Li & Fung organization. We might not be successful in these efforts, and our failure to evolve our supply chain capabilities and reduce costs in this area will have a material adverse impact on our business and results. In addition, our agreement with Li & Fung provides for a refund of a portion of the closing payment under certain limited circumstances, including a change in our control, the sale or discontinuation of any of our current brands, certain termination events and the failure to maintain certain levels of business. We are also obligated to use Li & Fung as our buying/sourcing agent for a minimum value of inventory purchases each year through the termination of the agreement in 2019. The licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC resulted in the removal of sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung buying/sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we refunded $24.3 million of the closing payment during the second quarter of 2010. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. We continue to assess various streamlining opportunities to reduce costs associated with our distribution process, which could result in additional outsourcing agreements in the future. 26 Table of Contents The successful execution of the licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC presents risks, including, without limitation, our ability to efficiently change our operational model and infrastructure as a result of such licensing arrangements, our ability to continue a good working relationship with those licensees and possible changes or disputes in our other brand relationships or relationships with other retailers and existing licensees as a result. On October 7, 2009, we entered into a multi-year license agreement with JCPenney, which granted JCPenney an exclusive right and license (subject to pre-existing licenses and certain limited exceptions) to use the LIZ CLAIBORNE, LIZ & CO., CLAIBORNE and CONCEPTS BY CLAIBORNE trademarks with respect to covered product categories. The scope of the license is worldwide for the manufacture of the licensed products and limited to JCPenney’s operations in the United States and Puerto Rico for the sale, marketing, merchandising, advertising and promotion of the licensed products. Under the agreement, JCPenney may only use designs provided or approved by us. The license agreement provides for the payment to us of royalties based on net sales of licensed products by JCPenney and a portion of the related gross profit when the gross profit percentage exceeds a specified rate, subject to a minimum annual payment. We also entered into a multi-year license agreement with QVC, granting rights (subject to pre-existing licenses) to certain of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. QVC has the rights to use the LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK brand with Isaac Mizrahi as creative director on any apparel, accessories, or home categories in its US and international markets. QVC merchandises and sources the products and we provide brand management oversight. The QVC agreement provides for the payment to us of a royalty based on net sales. Products under these agreements were introduced in the third quarter of 2010. In connection with these license agreements, we initiated actions to consolidate office space and reduce staff in certain support functions. These actions were completed in the second quarter of 2010. As a result, most of our pre-existing LIZ CLAIBORNE product licensees now work with QVC and JCPenney directly. Such existing licensees and JCPenney and/or QVC might not be able to successfully work together on the license product categories. One existing product licensee is currently alleging that the LIZ CLAIBORNE brand arrangements adversely impacted their ongoing ability to sell LIZ CLAIBORNE merchandise; another licensee was unsuccessful in making such allegations. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” Other licensees could make comparable allegations. Although we had business dealings with each of JCPenney and QVC prior to entering into these license agreements, these agreements have created new business relationships, including certain levels of exclusivity. Although each agreement provides for the payment to us by the respective licensees of certain annual minimum royalties and early results are encouraging, we believe that, specifically with respect to the JCPenney agreement, the successful implementation of this significant change in the nature of our wholesale business and expanding our relationship with JCPenney presents certain risks to us, including our ability to obtain the maximum value from each of these agreements and our ability for our design, merchandising and other philosophies to mesh with those of our licensees. Moreover, given the exclusive nature of a number of aspects of these transactions and our reliance on the licensees’ payments of the respective annual minimum royalties, we are assuming more credit risk relating to our receivables from these business partners. Our inability to collect the annual minimum royalties from JCPenney could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC for the stated brands may have an adverse impact on sales of our other brands to our US department store customers. We operate in a highly competitive retail environment. Although to date we do not believe that any of our other brands have been adversely impacted as a result of these license agreements, certain of our other US department store customers could still choose to decrease or eliminate the amount of other products purchased from us or change the manner of doing business with us as result of the licensing of our LIZ CLAIBORNE brands to their competitors. Such a decision by a group of US department stores or any other significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The JCPenney license and the QVC license provide the licensees with the option, under certain circumstances, to terminate the license. Any such termination could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results. JCPenney also has an option to take ownership of the same trademarks in the same territory if we fail to maintain the brand positioning for the LIZ CLAIBORNE NEW YORK trademark required pursuant to the terms of the 27 Table of Contents agreement. The exercise of such option may require us to incur material costs and expenses to comply with our obligations under the JCPenney license agreement and certain other license agreements. The success of our business depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to constantly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends, across multiple brands, product lines, shopping channels and geographies. The apparel and accessories industries have historically been subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and tastes and fashion trends and to levels of discretionary spending, especially for fashion apparel and related products, which levels are currently weak. We believe that our success is largely dependent on our ability to effectively anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demands and tastes across multiple product lines, shopping channels and geographies, in the design, pricing, styling and production of our products (including products we will design for JCPenney under our licensing arrangement and products to be designed by Isaac Mizrahi under the QVC arrangement) and in the merchandising and pricing of products in our retail stores. Our brands and products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to constant change. Also, we must maintain and enhance favorable brand recognition, which may be affected by consumer attitudes towards the desirability of fashion products bearing a “mega brand” label and which are widely available at a broad range of retail stores. We attempt to schedule a substantial portion of our materials and manufacturing commitments relatively late in the production cycle. However, in order to secure necessary materials and ensure availability of manufacturing facilities, we must make substantial advance commitments, which may be up to five months or longer, prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers for the items to be produced. We need to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings relatively far in advance, while minimizing excess inventory positions, and correctly balance the level of our fabric and/or merchandise commitments with actual customer orders. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles and brands or successfully meet changing customer and consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received and supported by our wholesale customers or consumers. Our failure to gauge consumer needs and fashion trends by brand and respond appropriately, and to appropriately forecast our ability to sell products, could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with substantial outstanding fabric and/or manufacturing commitments, resulting in increases in unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If that occurs, we may need to employ markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess inventory, which may harm our business and results. At the same time, our focus on inventory management may result, from time to time, in our not having a sufficient supply of products to meet demand and cause us to lose potential sales. We cannot assure that we can attract and retain talented highly qualified executives, or maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees, both union and non-union. Our success depends, to a significant extent, both upon the continued services of our executive management team, including brand-level executives, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain additional talented and highly qualified management in the future, including the areas of design, merchandising, sales, supply chain, marketing, production and systems, as well as our ability to hire and train qualified retail management and associates. In addition, we will need to provide for the succession of senior management, including brand-level executives. The loss of key members of management and our failure to successfully plan for succession could disrupt our operations and our ability to successfully operate our business and execute our strategic plan. We are bound by a variety of collective bargaining agreements in the US and Canada, mostly in our warehouse and distribution facilities. We consider our relations with our nonunion and union employees to be satisfactory and to date we have not experienced any interruption of our operations due to labor disputes. While our relations with the unions have historically been amicable, we cannot rule out the possibility of a labor dispute at one or more of our facilities relating to any facility closings, outsourcing or ongoing negotiations with respect to contracts that expire. Any such dispute could have a material adverse impact on our business. 28 Table of Contents Costs related to a multiemployer pension plan could increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. We contribute to a union-sponsored multiemployer defined benefit pension plan, which is regulated by ERISA, pursuant to obligations arising under our collective bargaining agreements. This multiemployer pension plan is not administered by or controlled by us and has actuarial liabilities for accumulated benefits that are in excess of plan assets. Our required contributions to this plan could increase or decrease, depending upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, governmental regulations, market conditions, the actual return on assets held in the plan and the continued viability and contributions of other employers which contribute to the plan. Due to the underfunding, we are already subject to a rehabilitation plan and are making the necessary contributions. In addition, under ERISA, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multiemployer pension plan may incur a “withdrawal liability” to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer. A withdrawal liability may be incurred under a variety of circumstances, including selling, closing or substantially reducing employment at our unionized facilities or if the plan is terminated. If incurred, a withdrawal liability is generally payable in installments over a period of years, the amount and duration of the installments being determined under relevant statutory rules. Material increases in our contributions to the plan and/or the occurrence of withdrawal liabilities could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Our business could suffer if we cannot adequately establish, defend and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are significantly important to our success and competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities. Counterfeiting of our products, particularly our JUICY COUTURE, LUCKY BRAND and KATE SPADE brands, continues, however, and in the course of our international expansion we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in some of our trademarks or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have, in the past, resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which, we believe, has had a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. However, the actions taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights might not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Moreover, in certain countries others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or we may not be able to successfully resolve such conflicts, or resolving such conflicts may require us to make significant monetary payments. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The loss of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, or the loss of the exclusive use of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, could have a material adverse effect on us. Any litigation regarding our trademarks or other proprietary rights could be time consuming and costly. Our success will depend on our ability to successfully develop or acquire new product lines or enter new markets or product categories. We have in the past, and may, from time to time, acquire or develop new product lines, enter new markets or product categories, including through licensing arrangements (such as the license of our DANA BUCHMAN brand to Kohl’s), and/or implement new business models (such as the licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC for the LIZ CLAIBORNE brands). Such activities are accompanied by a variety of risks inherent in any such new business venture, including the following: • Our ability to identify appropriate business development opportunities, including new product lines and markets; • New businesses, business models, product lines or market activities may require methods of operations, investments and marketing and financial strategies different from those employed in our other businesses, 29 Table of Contents and may also involve buyers, store customers and/or competitors different from our historical buyers, store customers and competitors; • Consumer acceptance of the new products or lines; • We may not be able to generate projected or satisfactory levels of sales, profits and/or return on investment for a new business or product line, and may also encounter unanticipated events and unknown or uncertain liabilities that could materially impact our business; • We may experience possible difficulties, delays and/or unanticipated costs in integrating the business, operations, personnel and/or systems of an acquired business and may also not be able to retain and appropriately motivate key personnel of an acquired business; • We may not be able to maintain product licenses, which are subject to agreement with a variety of terms and conditions, or to enter into new licenses to enable us to launch new products and lines; and • With respect to a business where we act as licensee, such as our licensed DKNY® JEANS and DKNY® ACTIVE brands, there are a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, compliance with terms set forth in the applicable license agreements, including among other things the maintenance of certain levels of sales and the public perception and/or acceptance of the licensor’s brands or other product lines, which are not within our control. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, both within the United States and abroad. We face intense competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion apparel and accessories producers and retailers. Competition is based on a number of factors, including the following: • Anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; • Establishing and maintaining favorable brand name and recognition; • Product quality; • Maintaining and growing market share; • Developing quality and differentiated products that appeal to consumers; • Establishing and maintaining acceptable relationships with our retail customers; • Pricing products appropriately; • Providing appropriate service and support to retailers; • Optimizing our retail and supply chain capabilities; • Size and location of our retail stores and department store selling space; and • Protecting intellectual property. Any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address these competitive factors, could result in reduced sales or prices, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We also believe there is an increasing focus by the department stores to concentrate an increasing portion of their product assortments within their own private label products. These private label lines compete directly with our product lines and may receive prominent positioning on the retail floor by department stores. Finally, in the current economic environment, which is characterized by softening demand for discretionary items, such as apparel and related products, there has been a consistently increased level of promotional activity, both at our retail stores and at department stores, which has had an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. 30 Table of Contents Our reliance on independent foreign manufacturers could cause delay and loss and damage our reputation and customer relationships. Also, there are risks associated with our agreement with Li & Fung, which results in a single foreign buying/sourcing agent for a significant portion of our products. We do not own any product manufacturing facilities; all of our products are manufactured in accordance with our specifications through arrangements with independent suppliers. Products produced in Asia represent a substantial majority of our sales. We also source product in the United States and other regions, including approximately 500 suppliers manufacturing our products. At the end of 2010 such suppliers were located in 50 countries, with the largest finished goods supplier at such time accounting for less than 7.0% of the total of finished goods we purchased in 2010. A supplier’s failure to manufacture and deliver products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may drive customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our reputation in the marketplace. Also, a manufacturer’s failure to comply with safety and content regulations and standards, including with respect to children’s product and fashion jewelry, could result in substantial liability and damage to our reputation. While we provide our manufacturers with standards, and we employ independent testing for safety and content issues, we might not be able to prevent or detect all failures of our manufacturers to comply with such standards and regulations. Additionally, we require our independent manufacturers (as well as our licensees) to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer used by us (or any of our licensees), or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s (or licensee’s) labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In 2008, we entered into an agreement with Hong Kong-based, global consumer goods exporter Li & Fung, whereby Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel buying/sourcing agent for the MEXX brand and MEXX’s existing buying/sourcing agent offices were integrated into the Li & Fung organization. On February 23, 2009, we entered into a long-term, buying/sourcing agency agreement with Li & Fung, pursuant to which Li & Fung acts as the primary global apparel and accessories buying/sourcing agent for all brands in our portfolio, with the exception of our jewelry product lines. Li & Fung continues as the primary buying/sourcing agent for MEXX. Pursuant to the agreement, we received at closing on March 31, 2009 a payment of $75.0 million and an additional payment of $8.0 million to offset specific, identifiable, incremental expenses associated with the transaction. We now pay to Li & Fung an agency commission based on the cost of our product purchases through Li & Fung. Our buying/sourcing agent offices In Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Shanghai and Shenzhen have been substantially integrated into the Li & Fung organization. The transition with Li & Fung might not be successful, and problems encountered in such transition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The licensing arrangements with JCPenney and QVC resulted in the removal of sourcing for a number of LIZ CLAIBORNE branded products sold under these licenses from the Li & Fung buying/sourcing arrangement. As a result, under our agreement with Li & Fung, we refunded $24.3 million of the closing payment during the second quarter of 2010. Our agreement with Li & Fung is not exclusive; however, we are required to source a specified percentage of product purchases from Li & Fung. Our arrangements with foreign suppliers and with our foreign buying/sourcing agents are subject generally to the risks of doing business abroad, including currency fluctuations and revaluations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, terrorist activities, pandemic disease and, in certain parts of the world, political, economic and currency instability. Our operations have not been materially affected by any such factors to date. However, due to the very substantial portion of our products that are produced abroad, any substantial disruption of our relationships with our foreign suppliers could adversely effect our operations. Moreover, difficult macroeconomic conditions and uncertainties in the global credit markets could negatively impact our suppliers, which in turn, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our international operations are subject to a variety of legal, regulatory, political and economic risks, including risks relating to the importation and exportation of product. We source most of our products outside the United States through arrangements with independent suppliers in approximately 50 countries as of January 1, 2011. There are a number of risks associated with importing our products, including but not limited to the following: • The potential reimposition of quotas, which could limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from a given country, in the context of a trade retaliatory case; • Changes in social, political, legal and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; • The imposition of additional regulations, or the administration of existing regulations, relating to products which are imported, exported or otherwise distributed; • The imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges or other trade barriers on imports or exports; • Risks of increased sourcing costs, including costs for materials and labor and such increases potentially resulting from the elimination of quota on apparel products; • Our ability to adapt to and compete effectively in the current quota environment, in which general quota has expired on apparel products, resulting in changing in sourcing patterns and lowered barriers to entry, but political activities which could result in the reimposition of quotas or other restrictive measures have been initiated or threatened; • Significant delays in the delivery of cargo due to security considerations; • The imposition of antidumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special antidumping or countervailing duties; and • The enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations, or executive action affecting international textile agreements, including the United States’ reevaluation of the trading status of certain countries and/or retaliatory duties, quotas or other trade sanctions, which, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries. Any one of these or similar factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and current business practices. Our ability to realize growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of sales in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; new tariffs or other barriers in some international markets; political instability and terrorist attacks; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and general economic fluctuations in specific countries, markets or currencies. Our business and balance sheets are exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations, including with respect to the outstanding euro-denominated notes. While we generally purchase our products in US dollars, we source most of our products overseas. As a result, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies, including currency devaluations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the US dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Furthermore, our international sales represented approximately 33.7% of our total sales in 2010 and 32.3% in 2009. Such sales were derived from sales in foreign currencies, primarily the euro. Our international sales, as well as our international businesses’ inventory and accounts receivable levels, could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. In addition, we have outstanding 350.0 million euro of euro-denominated Notes, which could further expose our business and balance sheets to foreign currency fluctuations. Although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure that foreign currency 32 Table of Contents fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. A material disruption in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We rely extensively on our information technology (“IT”) systems to track inventory, manage our supply chain, record and process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. The failure of IT systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or difficulty in integrating new systems could adversely impact our business. In addition, our IT systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer, network and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and usage errors by our employees. If our IT systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations in the interim. Any material disruption in our IT systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Privacy breaches and liability for online content could negatively affect our reputation, credibility and business. We rely on third-party computer hardware, software and fulfillment operations for our e-commerce operations and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. There is a growing concern over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. Despite the implementation of reasonable security measures by us and our third-party providers, these sites and systems may be susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally-identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, decline our e-commerce net sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. Additionally, as the number of users of forums and social media features on our websites increases, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material posted on our websites by users and other third parties. Finally, we could incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws regarding unauthorized disclosure of personal information. Our ability to utilize all or a portion of our US deferred tax assets may be limited significantly if we experience an “ownership change.” As of January 1, 2011, we had US federal deferred tax assets of $409.0 million, which include net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards and other items which could be considered net unrealized built in losses (“NUBIL”). Among other factors, our ability to utilize our NOL and/or our NUBIL items to offset future taxable income may be limited significantly if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in ownership of our stock by “5-percent shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. The limitation arising from an “ownership change” under section 382 of the Code on our ability to utilize our US deferred tax assets depends on the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change. We continue to monitor changes in our ownership and do not believe we have a change in control as of January 1, 2011. If all or a portion of our deferred tax assets are subject to limitation because we experience an ownership change, depending on the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change, our future cash flows could be adversely impacted due to increased tax liability. As of January 1, 2011, substantially all tax benefit of the US deferred tax assets has been offset with a full valuation allowance that was recognized in our financial statements. The outcome of current and future litigations and other proceedings in which we are involved may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to various litigations and other proceedings in our business which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. For a more detailed discussion of these litigations and other proceedings, see “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” We may in the future be subject to claims by other licensees of our merchandise that may be similar to those we have disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we may also become party to other claims and legal actions in the future which, either individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In 33 Table of Contents addition, any of the current or possible future legal proceedings in which we may be involved could require significant management and financial resources, which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 