D. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold, or sell our common shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other cautionary statements described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we consider to be immaterial may also affect our results of operations. If any of these events or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. In that event, the market price for our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In order to be successful, we are dependent on the development of new products, and our ability to introduce these products to the market in a cost-effective and timely manner. Our industry is characterized by the following: o Rapidly changing technology; o Product complexity; o Competition; and o Frequent new product introductions. We make investments in research and development in an effort to design new products and remain competitive in our markets. For example, in Fiscal 2008, our research and development efforts focused primarily on ultra low-power system-on-chip solutions for medical telemetry, active optical cables for data center interconnect, voice interface products, and network synchronization and timing over packet solutions. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in developing these new products. Furthermore, the development of our products is highly complex, and we may experience delays in completing our development initiatives. 2 In addition, even if we are successful in developing new products, we cannot be certain that these products will reach market acceptance. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers' products at the design stage. However, our design wins may not materialize into revenue for us, as customer projects may be cancelled, or their end market demand may decrease. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to provide the most cost-effective solutions for our customers. For example, during Fiscal 2007, we deemphasized our focus on the sale of electronic shelf labels, as we were unable to generate sufficiently high margins from the sale of these products due to the strong competition in this market. Our products generally take a minimum of two years from the initial product design to revenue generation. The market demand may change between the time of initial product design and volume sales, which could render our products obsolete and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our business could be disrupted if we are unable to successfully integrate any businesses, technologies, product lines or services that we acquire in the future. The markets in which we compete are characterized by an increasing level of consolidation by companies within our industry. Within these markets, there has been a consolidation of smaller to similar sized companies in an effort to achieve scale, leadership and depth. During Fiscal 2008 and 2007, we acquired 100% of the capital stock of Legerity Holdings Inc. ("Legerity") and the assets and liabilities of the optical business of Primarion. We may make other strategic acquisitions and investments or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances with other companies in the future. Such transactions entail many risks, including the following: o Inability to successfully integrate the acquired companies' personnel and businesses; o Inability to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value associated with the transactions; o Diversion of management's attention and disruption of our ongoing business; o Inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel; o Inability to establish and maintain uniform standards controls, procedures and policies; o Assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; and o Strained relationships with employees and customers as a result of the integration of new personnel. In addition, future acquisitions or investments may require us to issue additional equity or debt securities or obtain loans. Failure to avoid these or other risks associated with such acquisitions or investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A change in product mix between new products and legacy products could adversely impact our results of operations. Our revenue is comprised of a mix of new products in growth markets, and legacy telecom products within our core business. We depend partly on revenue generation from our legacy products in order to fund development of our new products. We cannot be certain that we will successfully be able to extend the life of our legacy products, and these products may become obsolete. Furthermore, we expect the average selling prices of our products to decline as they mature, which could result in decreased revenues and margins from these products. In addition, we cannot be certain that our revenues from our new products will increase sufficiently to compensate for the revenue decline from legacy products as they reach their end of life stage. If we are unable to sell high volumes of our new products, this may result in decreased revenues and margins, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. We have limited visibility of demand in our end markets, and our customers may cancel and/or defer orders on short notice, which could adversely impact our operating results. We typically sell our products pursuant to purchase orders, which can be either cancelled or deferred on short notice without our customers incurring significant penalties, as is common in our industry. Generally, we do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. We have difficulty predicting demand because our customers are faced with volatile demand patterns among their customers. In addition, the increasing consolidation within our end markets has created uncertainty. We also depend heavily on our turns business, or orders placed and shipped within the same quarter. 3 In the past, our customers have cancelled and deferred purchase orders as a result of maintaining excess inventories of our products. We build products based on forecasted customer demand. Our limited visibility of demand in our end markets could result in our holding excess inventory, and could reduce profit margins and increase product obsolescence if we overestimate demand for our products. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products and are unable to meet customer expectations, we may lose market share and damage relationships with our customers. Both of these outcomes could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have experienced operating losses in Fiscal 2008, as well as in several prior Fiscal years, and may not be able to return to profitability. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. We have seen periods of significant upturns and downturns. We have experienced net losses in Fiscal 2008, as well as in several prior Fiscal years during periods of industry downturns. These losses have contributed to negative operating cash flows in these years. If we incur losses in future periods, we may be required to implement additional restructuring activities, which may require that we exit certain markets in order to focus on markets we believe are more profitable or favorable from a financial standpoint. Our failure to return to profitability and positive operating cash flows, and future restructuring activities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other companies to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of, or inability to attract, key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued service of our key technical, sales and management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. We depend particularly on highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the development of mixed signal products and processes, and on personnel in sales functions. If we were unable to attract and retain these employees, this could delay the development of new products, and could also harm our ability to sell our existing products. The competition for these employees is intense, and these employees would be very difficult to replace. Our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have employment agreements with all of our executive officers. There are risks inherent in our international operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 75% of our sales in Fiscal 2008 were derived from sales in markets outside North America. We expect sales from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. We operate two manufacturing facilities as well as sales and technical support service centers in Europe and Asia. Certain risks are inherent in our international operations, including the following: o Political and economic instability; o Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; o The burden of compliance with foreign laws; o Import and export restrictions; o Difficulties in staffing and managing operations; o Fluctuations in exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar; o Difficulties in collecting receivables; and o Potentially adverse tax consequences. For example, some of the costs in our foreign operations, principally payroll costs, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar functional currency. These expenses are predominantly denominated in British pounds, Swedish kronor, and Canadian dollars. Our results of operations are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We use financial instruments, principally foreign exchange option and forward contracts, to help manage foreign currency exposure. These contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 4 The above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to protect our intellectual property or infringing on patents and proprietary rights of third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success and future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. We have been issued many patents, principally in the United States and the United Kingdom. We have also filed many patent applications, principally in the United States and the United Kingdom. However, these patents may not adequately protect us or provide us with a competitive advantage. If our patents fail to protect our technology, our competitors may benefit by offering similar products to customers. In addition, certain foreign countries have limited or no copyright, trademark and trade secret protection. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. Failure to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been in the past and may in the future be notified of claims that our products infringe the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties, and claims may be raised against us. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we could be prevented from making, using or selling certain of our products, and we may be subject to damage assessments. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price is subject to volatility, and significant fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated in prior periods, and future market prices could be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors: o General economic and market conditions in response to variances in anticipated and actual operating results of us or our competitors; o Variations in our quarterly operating results; o Announcements of new product introductions by us or our competitors; o Conditions in the semiconductor market; and o Mergers and acquisitions. These and other factors may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. On December 18, 2007 we were notified by NYSE Regulation, Inc. that we were not in compliance with one of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") continued listing requirements, due to the fact that the average closing price of our common shares was less than US$1.00 over a consecutive 30-day trading period. We will attempt to remediate this deficiency during the six-month cure period; however if at the end of the six-month cure period, both a US$1.00 share price and a US$1.00 average share price over the preceding 30 trading days are not attained, the NYSE could commence suspension and delisting procedures. A delisting could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A delisting may impact our ability to raise additional financing and our position within our market space may be negatively impacted. Having an average closing share price of less than US$1.00 will have no impact on our Toronto Stock Exchange ("TSX") listing. Our operating results may vary significantly due to impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets incurred in the course of acquisitions, as well as to impairment of tangible assets due to changes in the business environment. Our operating results may vary significantly due to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets booked in connection with acquisitions and the purchase of technologies and licenses from third parties. As of March 28, 2008, the value on our consolidated balance sheet for goodwill was $46.9 and for intellectual property was $56.5, net of amortization. Because the market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, and because of significant changes in the semiconductor industry, our future cash flows may not support the value of goodwill and other intangibles recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. We are required to test goodwill 5 annually and to assess the carrying values of intangible and tangible assets when impairment indicators exist. As a result of such tests, we could be required to record impairment charges in our statement of income if the carrying value in our consolidated balance sheet is in excess of the fair value. The amount of any potential impairment is not predictable as it depends on our estimates of projected market trends, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the introduction of new accounting standards can lead to a different assessment of goodwill carrying value, which could lead to a potential impairment of the goodwill amount. Any potential impairment, if required, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing future strategies. In connection with our acquisition of Legerity, we incurred Long-term debt of $77.4 ($78.8 million Cdn) as at March 28, 2008. The issuance of this indebtedness may: o Limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures and future acquisitions; o Require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; o Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and o Increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions, most significantly changes in foreign exchange rates as this debt is denominated in Canadian dollars, while our functional currency is the U.S. Dollar. We depend on third-party subcontractors to assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test many of our products. If we lose the services of any of our subcontractors or if these subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials, shipments of our products may be disrupted, and we may be subject to warranty claims, which could harm our customer relationships and adversely affect our results of operations. Several third-party subcontractors located in Asia assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test some of our products. Because we rely on third-party subcontractors to perform these functions, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control has resulted, and could in the future result, in product shortages or quality assurance problems. This could delay shipments of our products or increase our manufacturing, assembly or testing costs. If our third-party subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials for our products in a timely manner, we may experience a significant product shortage or delay in product shipments, which could seriously harm our customer relationships and sales. In addition, quality assurance problems by our third-party subcontractors could result in defective products being shipped to our customers. The cost of product replacements or returns and other warranty related matters could materially adversely affect us. Some of our subcontractors are located in regions with a higher risk of being subject to earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters. During Fiscal 2008, a flood occurred at our Swindon foundry, which is now owned by MHS Electronics UK Ltd. ("MHS"), but continues to be a supplier to Zarlink. The flood resulted in the complete shut down of the facility and affected our supply of finished product. The occurrence of additional floods or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of our assembly and test capacity. If any of our subcontractors experience capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffer any damage to their facilities, experience power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. This could result in significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We depend on eight independent foundries to manufacture most of our products, and elimination or disruption of these arrangements could adversely affect the timing of product shipments. In Fiscal 2008, approximately 95% of our products were sourced from eight independent foundries that supply the necessary wafers and process technologies. These independent foundries now include the analog foundry in Swindon UK, which we sold to MHS in Fiscal 2008. We have wafer supply agreements with six of these foundries, which expire between Fiscal 2009 and 2011. These suppliers are obligated to provide certain quantities of wafers per year under these agreements. These agreements are typically renewed prior to their expiry dates, or automatically renew for a specified period under the existing terms and conditions unless either party provides notification of non-renewal to the other party. These independent foundries also manufacture products for other companies. In the past, availability of foundry capacity has been reduced due to strong demand. As a result, 6 we may not have access to adequate capacity or certain process technologies as capacity and technologies may be allocated to other customers. In addition, a manufacturing disruption experienced by one or more of our outside foundries or a disruption of our relationship with an outside foundry, including discontinuance of our products by that foundry, would negatively impact the production of our products. As a result of the European Union directive Restriction of Hazardous Substances ("RoHS"), certain specific hazardous materials were eliminated from our production. We now have the capability to be compliant with the RoHS directive, however some of our customers have exemptions to the directive and our foundry suppliers may experience supply delays or shortages where they are maintaining the capability to produce the original products. If our foundry suppliers were unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in the volumes that we require, then we would need to identify and qualify acceptable additional or alternative foundries. This qualification process could take six months or longer, and such a change may require approval from certain customers. We may not find sufficient capacity quickly enough, if ever, to satisfy production requirements and we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products. This could cause customers to cancel or fail to place new orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental regulations, which impose restrictions surrounding the use, disposal and storage of hazardous substances. Our failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could result in future liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have manufacturing facilities located in the United Kingdom and Sweden, and are subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or other hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. We believe that we have complied with these laws, rules, and regulations in all material respects, and to date have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance. However, if we fail to comply with present or future regulations, we could be subject to fines, or production being suspended or facilities closed. Such regulations could require that we acquire significant equipment or incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. If we fail to control the use, disposal, storage of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, we could be subject to future liabilities. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 