D. Risk factors Before deciding to purchase, hold, or sell our common shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other cautionary statements described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we consider to be immaterial may also affect our results of operations. If any of these events or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. In that event, the market price for our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our financial results depend on our ability to keep pace with rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The markets for our products are characterized by the following: o Rapidly changing technology; o Evolving and competing industry standards; o Changes in customers; o Emerging competition; o Frequent new product introductions; and o Evolving methods used by carriers and business enterprises to manage communications networks. 2 Our future success depends in part on our ability to do the following: o Use leading technologies effectively; o Continue to develop our technical expertise; o Develop and maintain close working relationships with our key customers; o Develop new products that meet changing customer needs; o Advertise and market our products effectively; and o Influence and respond to changing industry standards and other technological changes on a timely and cost-effective basis. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in these endeavors, as they may require substantial time and expense and we cannot guarantee that we will succeed in adapting our products or business to alternate technologies. If we fail to develop and introduce new or enhanced products that are compatible with industry standards and that satisfy customer price and performance requirements, new products could render our products obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on five independent foundries to manufacture most of our products, and elimination or disruption of these arrangements could adversely affect the timing of product shipments. In Fiscal 2005 approximately 90% of our products were sourced from five independent foundries that supply the necessary wafers and process technologies. We have wafer supply agreements with three of these foundries, which expire from Fiscal 2006 to 2007. These suppliers are obligated to provide certain quantities of wafers per year under these agreements. These independent foundries also manufacture products for other companies. In the past, availability of foundry capacity has been reduced due to strong demand. As a result, we may not have access to adequate capacity or certain process technologies as capacity and technologies may be allocated to other customers. In addition, a manufacturing disruption experienced by one or more of our outside foundries or a disruption of our relationship with an outside foundry, including discontinuance of our products by that foundry, would negatively impact the production of our products. During Fiscal 2005, one of our foundry suppliers experienced production issues, which adversely impacted our revenue and gross margins during the period. These production problems adversely impacted our second quarter results, but were corrected during the third quarter. If our foundry suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in the volumes that we require, then we would need to identify and qualify acceptable additional or alternative foundries. This qualification process could take six months or longer. We may not find sufficient capacity quickly enough, if ever, to satisfy production requirements, and we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third-party subcontractors to assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test many of our products. If we lose the services of any of our subcontractors or if these subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials, shipments of our products may be disrupted, which could harm our customer relationships and adversely affect our net sales. Several third-party subcontractors located in Asia assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test some of our products. Because we rely on third-party subcontractors to perform these functions, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control has resulted, and could in the future result, in product shortages or quality assurance problems. This could delay shipments of our products or increase our manufacturing, assembly or testing costs. If our third-party subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials for our products in a timely manner, we may experience a significant product shortage or delay in product shipments, which could seriously harm our customer relationships and sales. If any of our subcontractors experience capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffer any damage to their facilities, experience power outages or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. This could result in significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 3 Increased competition in the semiconductor industry may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The markets for our products are highly competitive. Competition could further increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or upgrade existing products to accommodate new technologies and features. Many of our competitors have a longer operating history and greater technical, manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we have. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly or devote greater resources to changing technological requirements, customer demands and market trends. If competition increases, this may require that we reduce our selling prices, which would result in lower gross margins. In addition, competition may result in a loss of market share. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends upon elements both within and outside our control, including the following: o successful and timely development of new products and manufacturing processes; o product performance and quality; o good manufacturing yields; o product availability; o strong customer service; o competitive pricing; and o industry and general economic trends. We cannot guarantee that we will compete successfully in any or all of these areas. Refer to "Item 4B - Competition". We have experienced a recent history of operating losses and may not be able to achieve profitability in future years. We have experienced net losses of $20.8, $38.6, and $57.9, respectively, in Fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003. These losses have contributed to negative operating cash flows in each of these three years. We may be required to implement additional restructuring activities in the future, which may require that we exit certain business segments in order to focus on markets we believe are advantageous. Our failure to achieve profitability and positive operating cash flows, and future restructuring activities could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other companies to attract and retain key personnel, and the loss of, or inability to attract, key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our key technical, sales and management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. We depend particularly on highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the development of mixed signal products and processes, and on personnel in sales functions. The competition for these employees is intense. Our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have employment agreements with all of our executive officers, including Kirk K. Mandy, President and Chief Executive Officer. Our stock price is subject to volatility, and significant fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated in prior periods, and future market prices could be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors: o general economic and market conditions in response to sequential variances in anticipated or actual operating results of us or our competitors; 4 o announcements of new product introductions by us or our competitors; o conditions in the semiconductor market; o litigation; o mergers and acquisitions; and o changes in management. These and other factors may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. Our customers may cancel and defer orders, which could adversely impact operating results. We typically sell our products pursuant to purchase orders, which can be either cancelled or deferred on short notice without our customers incurring significant penalties. In the past, customers have cancelled and deferred purchase orders as a result of maintaining excess inventories of our products. We build products based on forecasted customer demand. Any significant cancellations or deferrals in the future could result in our holding excess inventory and could reduce profit margins, increase product obsolescence, and negatively impact our cash flows from operations. Any of these results could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products use technology that may infringe on patent and proprietary rights of third parties. This may expose us to litigation claims, which could be costly and time consuming to evaluate and defend, and we could be prevented from making, using or selling certain of our products. The semiconductor market has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have been in the past and may in the future be notified of claims that our products are subject to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Although we attempt to ensure that our products and processes do not infringe such third-party patents or proprietary rights, claims may be raised against us. We periodically negotiate with third parties to establish patent license or cross-license agreements. We cannot guarantee that these negotiations will result in obtaining a license on satisfactory terms or at all. Furthermore, license agreements with third parties may not include all intellectual property rights that may be issued to or owned by the licensors and thus future disputes with these companies are possible. Consequently, even if we do settle intellectual property disputes through a license, litigation could still result. Any litigation or interference proceedings could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of effort by our technical and managerial personnel. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we could be prevented from making, using or selling certain of our products, and we may be subject to damage assessments. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success and future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. We have been issued many patents, principally in the United States and the United Kingdom. Claims allowed on any of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. We have also filed many patent applications principally in the United States, the United Kingdom, and China. Our existing and future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Furthermore, our patents may not provide us with a competitive advantage. If our patents fail to protect our technology, our competitors may benefit by offering similar products to customers. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and strategic partners and control access to and distribution of our product documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, a third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, services or technology without authorization. It could also develop similar technology independently, or design around our patents. In addition, certain foreign countries have limited or no copyright, trademark and trade secret protection. We have entered into agreements with some of our customers, which give these customers the right to use our proprietary technology if we default on our contractual obligations under the agreement. In addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of our strategic customers into our design, and we have certain obligations limiting the use and disclosure of this 5 intellectual property. Although we have taken steps to protect the intellectual property of ourselves and our customers, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. Failure to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are risks inherent in our international operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 78% of our sales in Fiscal 2005 were derived from sales in markets outside the United States and 74% outside North America. We expect sales from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. We operate three manufacturing facilities as well as sales and technical support service centers in Europe and Asia. Certain risks are inherent in international operations, including the following: o exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations; o political and economic instability; o unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; o the burden of compliance with foreign laws; o import and export restrictions; o difficulties in staffing and managing operations; o difficulties in collecting receivables; and o potentially adverse tax consequences. The above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Changes in currency exchange rates and in the financial standings of the institutions that are counterparties to our financial instruments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On March 29, 2003, we changed our functional currency to the U.S. dollar. However, a portion of our costs of sales and other expenses are denominated in British pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Canadian dollars, and several other currencies. As such, our results of operations are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations of those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. To protect against foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we use financial instruments, principally foreign exchange option and forward contracts, to manage foreign currency exposure. Specifically, we endeavor to hedge our estimated net foreign currency cash requirements, principally local payroll costs and other significant transactions, over the ensuing 12 months. These contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Several major financial institutions are counterparties to our financial instruments. We monitor the financial standing of the counterparties and limit the amount of our exposure to any one institution. If the counterparties to these contracts do not perform their contractual obligations, we may be exposed to a credit loss. We do not have significant credit risk in our accounts receivable due to the diverse areas covered by our operations. We also have credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended to mitigate potential credit risks. Our anticipated bad debt loss has been provided for in our allowance for doubtful accounts. If we fail to guard against currency and credit risks in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be disrupted if we are unable to successfully integrate any businesses, technologies, product lines or services that we acquire in the future. We may make strategic acquisitions and investments or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances with other companies in the future. Such transactions entail many risks, including the following: o inability to successfully integrate the acquired companies' personnel and businesses; 6 o inability to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value associated with the transactions; o diversion of management's attention and disruption of our ongoing business; o inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel; o inability to establish and maintain uniform standards controls, procedures and policies; o assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; and o strained relationships with employees and customers as a result of the integration of new personnel. In addition, future acquisitions or investments may require us to issue additional equity or debt securities or obtain loans. Failure to avoid these or other risks associated with such acquisitions or investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental regulations, which impose restrictions surrounding the use, disposal and storage of hazardous substances. Our failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could result in future liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or other hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. We believe that we have complied with these laws, rules and regulations in all material respects, and to date have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance. However, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Such regulations could require that we acquire significant equipment or incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. If we fail to control the use, disposal or storage of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, we could be subject to future liabilities. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 