D. Risk Factors Before deciding to purchase, hold, or sell our common shares, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other cautionary statements described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we consider to be immaterial may also affect our results of operations. If any of these events or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. In that event, the market price for our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In order to be successful, we are dependent on the development of new products, and our ability to introduce these products to the market in a cost-effective and timely manner. Our industry is characterized by the following: · Rapidly changing technology; · Product complexity; · Competition; and · Frequent new product introductions. We make investments in research and development in an effort to design new products and remain competitive in our markets. For example, in Fiscal 2011, our research and development efforts focused primarily on ultra low-power integrated circuits supporting short-range wireless communications for implantable medical devices, timing products that support the delivery of time-sensitive services over packet-based networks, and line circuit products for enterprise and residential equipment that enables carrier-class voice services over cable and broadband networks. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in developing these new products. Furthermore, the development of our products is a lengthy and highly complex process, and we may experience delays in completing our development initiatives. For example, certain of our products in the Medical group require regulatory approval, which can be time consuming and is frequently delayed. This long process may result in our incurring substantial costs before any products reach market, which may lead to a negative short-term cash flow impact. In addition, even if we are successful in developing new products, we cannot be certain that these products will gain market acceptance. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products at the design stage. However, our design wins may not materialize into revenue for us, as customer projects may be cancelled, or their end market demand may decrease. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to provide the most cost-effective solutions for our customers. For example, during Fiscal 2009, we announced we would be discontinuing certain legacy optical products, for which we had invested funds in previous years, as we were unable to generate sufficiently high margins from the sale of these products. Our products generally take a minimum of two years from the initial product design to revenue generation. The market demand may change between the time of initial product design and volume sales, which could render our products obsolete and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our business could be disrupted if we are unable to successfully integrate businesses, technologies, product lines or services that we acquire in the future. The markets in which we compete are characterized by an increasing level of company consolidation. Within these markets, there has been a consolidation of smaller to similar sized companies in an effort to achieve scale, leadership and depth. We expect the overall consolidation trend in our industry to continue in the future. We may make strategic acquisitions and investments or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances with other companies. Such transactions entail many risks, including the following: · Inability to successfully integrate the acquired companies' personnel and businesses; · Inability to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value associated with the transactions; · Diversion of management's attention and disruption of our ongoing business; · Inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel; · Inability to establish and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · Assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; and · Strained relationships with employees and customers as a result of the integration of new personnel. In addition, future acquisitions or investments may require us to issue additional equity or debt securities or obtain loans. Failure to avoid these or other risks associated with such acquisitions or investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 3 We depend on three independent foundries to manufacture the majority of our products, and elimination or disruption of these arrangements could adversely affect the timing of product shipments. In Fiscal 2011, approximately 97% of our products were sourced from three independent foundries, which supply the necessary wafers and process technologies. We have wafer supply agreements (“WSA”) with two foundries, including one with our top supplier. These supply agreements expire in Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2013. Our suppliers are obligated to provide certain quantities of wafers per year under these agreements. These agreements are typically renewed prior to their expiry dates, or automatically renew for a specified period under the existing terms and conditions unless either party provides notification of non-renewal to the other party. These independent foundries also manufacture products for other companies. In the past, availability of foundry capacity has been reduced due to strong demand. As a result, we may not have access to adequate capacity or certain process technologies as capacity and technologies may be allocated to other customers. As an example, we saw increased capacity constraints related to wafers used in products of our Communication Products group in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010. These capacity constraints continued into the first half of Fiscal 2011. In addition, a manufacturing disruption experienced by one or more of our outside foundries or a disruption of our relationship with an outside foundry, including discontinuance of our products by that foundry, would negatively impact the production of our products. If our foundry suppliers were unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in the volumes that we require, then we would need to identify and qualify acceptable additional or alternative foundries. This qualification process could take six to nine months, and such a change may require approval from certain customers. We may not find sufficient capacity quickly enough, if ever, to satisfy production requirements and we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products. This could cause customers to cancel or fail to place new orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. At the end of Fiscal 2009, the purchaser of one of our former foundries, MHS Electronics U.K. Ltd. (“MHS”), entered into receivership, which resulted in the transitioning of our production to the foundries that currently manufacture our products. This process was completed during Fiscal 2010. We depend on third-party subcontractors to assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test many of our products. If we lose the services of any of our subcontractors or if these subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials, shipments of our products may be disrupted, and we may be subject to warranty claims, which could harm our customer relationships and adversely affect our results of operations. Third-party subcontractors located in Asia assemble, obtain packaging materials for, and test some of our products. In Fiscal 2011, approximately 97% of these services were completed by three subcontractors. Because we rely on third-party subcontractors to perform these functions, we cannot directly control our product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control has resulted, and could in the future result, in product shortages or quality assurance problems. This could delay shipments of our products or increase our manufacturing, assembly or testing costs. If our third-party subcontractors are unable to obtain sufficient packaging materials for our products in a timely manner, we may experience a significant product shortage or delay in product shipments, which could seriously harm our customer relationships and sales. In addition, quality assurance problems by our third-party subcontractors could result in defective products being shipped to our customers. The cost of product replacements or returns and other warranty related matters could materially adversely affect us. A change in product mix between new products and legacy products could adversely impact our results of operations. Our revenue is comprised of a mix of new products in growth markets, and legacy products within our core business. We depend partly on revenue generation from our legacy products in order to fund development of our new products. We cannot be certain that we will successfully be able to extend the life of our legacy products, and these products may become obsolete. Furthermore, we expect the average selling prices of our products to decline as they mature, which could result in decreased revenues and margins from these products. In addition, we cannot be certain that our revenues from our new products will increase sufficiently to compensate for the revenue decline from legacy products as they reach their end of life stage. If we are unable to sell high volumes of our new products, this may result in decreased revenues and margins, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. 4 We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any key customer could significantly reduce our revenues. The loss of any of our key customers, or a significant reduction in sales to any one of them, would significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. During Fiscal 2011, our ten largest customers accounted for 70% of our revenues. During Fiscal 2011, sales to our top two customers, both distributors, represented 28% of our total revenues. Some of the markets for our products are dominated by a small number of potential customers. Therefore, our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to sell to these top customers. While we have been a significant supplier of components used in many of our customers' products, our customers regularly evaluate alternative sources of supply in order to diversify their supplier base, which increases their negotiating leverage with us and protects their ability to secure these components. We believe that an expansion of our customers' supplier bases could have an adverse effect on the prices we are able to charge, and volume of product that we are able to sell to our customers, which would negatively affect our revenues and operating results. We have limited visibility of demand in our end markets, and our customers may cancel and/or defer orders on short notice, which could adversely impact our operating results. We typically sell our products pursuant to purchase orders, which can be either cancelled or deferred on short notice without our customers incurring significant penalties, as is common in our industry. Generally, we do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. We have difficulty predicting demand because our customers are faced with volatile demand patterns among their customers. In addition, the increasing consolidation within our end markets has created uncertainty. In the past, our customers have cancelled and deferred purchase orders as a result of maintaining excess inventories of our products. We build products based on forecasted customer demand. Our limited visibility of demand in our end markets could result in our holding excess inventory, and could reduce profit margins and increase product obsolescence if we overestimate demand for our products. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products and are unable to meet customer expectations, we may lose market share and damage relationships with our customers. Both of these outcomes could negatively impact our cash flows from operations and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are a relatively small company with limited resources compared to some of our current and potential competitors and we may not be able to compete effectively and increase market share. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources and name recognition and a larger base of customers than we have. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. In addition, we believe some of our current and potential competitors have already established supplier or joint development relationships with the decision makers at our current or potential customers. These competitors may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage their customers from purchasing products from us or persuade them to replace our products with their products. These and other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors, and may materially harm our business. Competition could decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our gross margins and/or decrease our market share. We have experienced operating losses in several prior Fiscal Years, and may not be able to maintain current profitability. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. We have seen periods of significant upturns and downturns. Although we generated net income in Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, we generated net losses in several prior Fiscal Years during periods of industry downturns. These losses have contributed to negative operating cash flows in some years. If we incur losses in future periods, we may be required to implement additional restructuring activities, which may require that we exit certain markets in order to focus on markets we believe are advantageous. Our failure to maintain profitability and positive operating cash flows, or the need to undertake future restructuring activities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 5 We compete with other companies to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of, or inability to attract, key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued service of our key technical, sales and management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. We depend particularly on highly skilled design, process, product and test engineers involved in the development of mixed-signal products and processes, and on personnel in sales and marketing functions. If we were unable to attract and retain these employees, this could delay the development of new products, and could also harm our ability to sell our existing products. The competition for these employees is intense, and these employees would be very difficult to replace. Our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely impact our results of operations. Our operations are exposed to foreign currency rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our costs are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, while virtually all of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. The U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly against other foreign currencies and this trend may continue. On occasion we use forward contracts and foreign currency options to protect against the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The contracts can reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our results. Some of our assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies, which are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations of those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Our most significant liability denominated in a foreign currency is our 6% Convertible Unsecured Subordinated Debentures (“convertible debentures”), which is denominated in Canadian dollars. We have partially mitigated the foreign exchange risk relating to the convertible debentures by holding cash on hand in Canadian dollars. At March 25, 2011, taking into account only our convertible debentures, a five percentage point change in the Cdn/U.S. exchange rate will have a non-cash foreign exchange impact of approximately $3.6 million on our earnings in a given fiscal year. There are risks inherent in our international operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 84% of our sales in Fiscal 2011 were derived from sales in markets outside North America. We expect sales from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. We operate a manufacturing facility in Europe. We also operate sales and technical support service centers in Europe and Asia. Certain risks are inherent in our international operations, including the following: · Political and economic instability; · Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · Different environmental rules and regulations; · The burden of compliance with foreign laws; · Different intellectual property laws; · Import and export restrictions; · Difficulties in staffing and managing operations; · Fluctuations in exchange rates against the U.S. dollar; · Difficulties in collecting receivables; and · Potentially adverse tax consequences. The above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Failure to protect our intellectual property or infringing on patents and proprietary rights of third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success and future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. We have been issued many patents, principally in the United States and the United Kingdom. We have also filed many patent applications, principally in the United States and the United Kingdom. However, these patents may not adequately protect us or provide us with a competitive advantage. If our patents fail to protect our technology, our competitors may benefit by offering similar products to customers. In addition, certain foreign countries have limited or no copyright, trademark and trade secret protection. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. Failure to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been in the past, and may in the future be, notified of claims that our products infringe the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties, and claims may be raised against us. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we could be prevented from making, using or selling certain of our products, and we may be subject to damage assessments. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we become defendants in legal proceedings about which we are unable to assess our exposure and which could become significant liabilities upon judgment. We become defendants in legal proceedings from time to time. Companies in our industry have been subject to claims related to patent infringement and product liability, as well as commercial contract and employment claims. We may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. These proceedings may result in material changes to our operating results in the future if our exposure is material and if our ability to assess our exposure becomes clearer. Our stock price is subject to volatility, and significant fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated significantly in the past, and the future market price could be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors: · General economic and market conditions in response to variances in anticipated and actual operating results of us or our competitors; · Variations in our quarterly operating results; · Announcements of new product introductions by us or our competitors; · Conditions and cyclical nature of the semiconductor market; · Adjustments to our capital structure, including the amount of long-term debt; · Mergers and acquisitions; and · Speculation and volatility inherent in the current economic climate. These and other factors may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. For example, in Fiscal 2009 our common shares were delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) due to such shares falling below the NYSE’s continued listing standard regarding average share price over a consecutive 30 trading-day period of not less than $1.00. Our operating results may vary significantly due to impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets incurred as a result of acquisitions, as well as to impairment of tangible assets due to changes in the business environment. Our operating results may vary significantly due to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets booked in connection with acquisitions and the purchase of technologies and licenses from third parties. For example, during Fiscal 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $43.0 million, which had a material negative impact on our operating results. See Note 9 of the financial statements for discussion of goodwill impairment. As of March 25, 2011, the value on our Consolidated Balance Sheet of goodwill was $Nil and of intangible assets was $34.5 million, net of amortization. Because the market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, and because of significant changes in the semiconductor industry and general economic factors beyond our control, our future cash flows may not support the intangibles recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We are required to test goodwill annually and to assess the carrying values of intangible and tangible assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. As a result of such tests, we have recorded, and could be required in the future to record, impairment charges in our Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss) if the carrying value in our Consolidated Balance Sheet is in excess of the fair value. The amount of any potential impairment is not predictable as it depends on our estimates of projected market trends, results of operations and cash flows. The potential impairment, if required, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in future periods. 7 We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing future strategies. In connection with our acquisition of Legerity Holdings Inc (“Legerity”) in Fiscal 2008, we incurred, through the issuance of the convertible debentures, long-term debt with a balance of $72.5 million (Cdn $70.9 million) as at March 25, 2011. This indebtedness may: · Limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures and future acquisitions; · Require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; · Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and · Increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions, most significantly changes in foreign exchange rates as this debt is denominated in Canadian dollars, while our functional currency is the U.S. Dollar. Natural disaster events could harm our operations. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition, and increase our costs and expenses. For example, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan may adversely impact our supply chain and we may experience supply shortages for components that we source from our suppliers. We completed an initial impact review at each of our subcontractors and have determined that with the current excess material on hand at our subcontractors there are no immediate material supply concerns that would keep us from meeting the current demand, or anticipated demand, in the next four to six months. However our visibility is limited and we are unable to assess the full impact of these events and there is no assurance that our business, our results of operations and our financial condition will not be materially affected by these events in the future. We are subject to environmental regulations, which impose restrictions surrounding the use, disposal and storage of hazardous substances. Our failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could result in future liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a manufacturing facility located in the United Kingdom, and have sold previously owned facilities, which are subject to a variety of laws, rules and regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or other hazardous chemicals used in the manufacturing process. We believe that we have complied with these laws, rules, and regulations in all material respects, and to date have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance. However, if we fail to comply with present or future regulations, we could be subject to fines, or production being suspended or facilities closed. Such regulations could require that we acquire significant equipment or incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. If we fail to control the use, disposal, storage of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, we could be subject to future liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our global growth is subject to a number of economic risks. Over the past few years, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia experienced extreme disruption, including among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments took unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that resulted in severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. These conditions have not impaired our liquidity for operational purposes. However, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies which may impair our liquidity in the future. The tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, and in the financial strength of our customers and suppliers. For example, approximately 32% of our sales in Fiscal 2011 were derived from sales in the People’s Republic of China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation, which have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our Company. Our convertible debentures may be converted into common shares, which will result in the dilution of our current common shareholders’ ownership. The principal amount of the convertible debentures of which $72.5 million was outstanding on March 25, 2011 is repayable on September 30, 2012, in Canadian dollars, or at the option of Zarlink, by issuance of common shares. The convertible debentures are also convertible under certain conditions, at the option of the holder, into a maximum of 28.9 million common shares, in the aggregate, at a conversion price of $2.51 (Cdn $2.45) per share. Between October 1, 2011 and September 30, 2012, upon not less than 30 days written notice, we may elect to call the convertible debentures, in whole, or in part, from time to time, for payment in cash if the current market price of our common shares is greater than $3.13 (Cdn $3.06). The current market price is measured as the volume weighted average trading price on the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) for the 20 consecutive trading days ending on the third business day preceding the date of which notice is given. If we elect to call the debentures, it would be likely that some holders would exercise their right to convert their debentures to common shares during the notice period. In addition, subject to the terms of the trust indenture and regulatory approval, the interest payable on the convertible debentures may also be settled in common shares. The dilutive effect of issuing common shares in settlement of either interest or principal on our convertible debentures would have a material impact on the current common shareholders’ ownership percentage as well as the market price of our common shares. 8 Securities we issue to fund our operations could dilute our current common shareholders’ ownership. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of current stockholders will be reduced and the new equity securities may have priority rights to those of the common shareholders. We may delay, limit or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations if adequate funds are not available. Compliance with new accounting standards, including a possible transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) will have cost and accounting implications. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC, and other bodies that have jurisdiction over the form and content of our accounts frequently consider and interpret proposals and existing pronouncements designed to ensure that companies disclose relevant and transparent information relating to their respective businesses. For example, as discussed in Item 5 of this Form 20-F, we are currently monitoring significant levels of financial reporting development due to the ongoing convergence of U.S. GAAP and IFRS, as the SEC is considering whether to incorporate IFRS into the U.S. financial reporting system. If we adopt IFRS as our basis of financial reporting, our financial results may be materially different from what they would be under U.S. GAAP. In addition, this transition will result in our incurring additional costs. U.S. investors of our shares could be subject to adverse United States federal tax consequences if we are considered a passive foreign investment company (or PFIC) for United States federal income tax purposes. There is a risk that we could be classified as a PFIC which would result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our shares. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of its gross income (including the gross income of certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of its assets (including the assets of certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. The determination of PFIC status is made on an annual basis and is subject to factual uncertainties over which we have limited control because it depends upon the valuation of our shares, as well as our other assets and income. Although we do not believe that we will be treated as a PFIC during the current Fiscal Year and we do not expect to become a PFIC in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance in this regard. If we were classified as a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. holder of our shares, such U.S. holder will be subject to certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences, as discussed in the section entitled “Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations; Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations”. The PFIC rules are complex and a U.S. holder of our shares is urged to consult its own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. 