ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to the regulation of our business could impact the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability - We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory authorities, which significantly influences our operating environment and the ability to timely recover costs from customers. In particular, our utility operations are regulated by regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over public utilities, including the IUB, the PSCW, the MPUC and FERC. These authorities regulate many aspects of our operations, including: rates charged to customers; costs of fuel, purchased power and natural gas that can be recovered from customers; the authorized rates of return on capital; the amount of deferred costs that may be recovered from customers; our ability to site and construct new generating facilities; authorization to install environmental pollution control equipment and whether equipment costs can be recovered from customers; construction and maintenance of facilities; operations, including requiring certain sources of energy such as renewable sources and reductions in energy usage by customers; rates paid to transmission operators; safety; issuance of securities; accounting matters; and transactions between affiliates. Further, provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility activities and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to maintain current rates of return depends upon regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and we cannot assure that rate adjustments will be obtained or current authorized rates of return on capital will be earned. These regulatory authorities are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions on us if we are found to have violated statutes and regulations governing utility operations. IPL and WPL from time to time file rate cases with federal and state regulatory authorities. In future rate cases, if IPL and WPL do not receive an adequate amount of rate relief, rates are reduced, increased rates are not approved on a timely basis or costs are otherwise unable to be recovered through rates, we may experience an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional costs or change business operations or our business plan, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks related to implementing our strategic plan - Our strategic plan is based on increasing our electric generating capacity to meet our customers’ needs by building new electric generating facilities. The construction of generating facilities is subject to many risks, which may cause increased costs or inability to recover costs, or may impede or block our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. The state utility commissions may not permit us to site or construct the generating facilities. This decision could be based upon any number of factors, including their determination that there is no need for the facilities, too large of customer rate increases associated with the new generating facilities, technology changes, environmental concerns or other factors. For example, the PSCW rejected our application to build a proposed addition of Nelson Dewey Generating Station Unit 3. State utility commissions could approve the construction of generating facilities, but include conditions that make the project uneconomical. Such conditions could include low rates of return, inability to adequately recover costs or certain operating restrictions. For example, the IUB imposed, as a condition of approval, a low rate of return and low cost cap for our proposed addition of Sutherland Generating Station Unit 4. If we receive regulatory approval to build the facilities, advocacy groups or other associations may file lawsuits seeking to overturn or modify the regulatory approvals. If the state utility commissions do not approve the new generating facilities or do not approve conditions that make the project economical, or if certain groups successfully challenge the state utility commissions’ decisions to allow the generating facilities, we will not be able to implement our strategic plan and our financial condition and ability to serve our customers could be negatively affected. 20 Further, large construction projects, such as the building of coal and wind generating facilities, are subject to various risks that could cause costs to increase or delays in completion. These risks include shortages of, the inability to obtain, the cost of and the consistency of labor, materials and equipment, the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts, the inability to agree to terms of contracts or disputes in contract terms, work stoppages, adverse weather conditions, the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner, changes in applicable laws or regulations, adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, governmental actions, legal action, and unforeseen engineering or technology issues. If the construction of a generating facility is over budget, we may not be able to recover those excess costs. Inability to recover excess costs, or inability to complete construction in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in commodity prices or the availability of commodities may increase the cost of producing electric energy or change the amount we receive from selling electric energy, harming our financial performance - The prices that we may obtain for electric energy may not compensate for changes in delivered coal, natural gas or electric energy spot-market costs, or changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of electric energy. As a result, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers, which may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal because the majority of the electricity generated by us is from our coal-fired generating facilities. We have contracts of varying durations for the supply and transportation of coal for most of our existing generating capability, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. Further, we currently rely on coal primarily from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and any disruption of coal production in, or transportation from, that region may cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also have responsibility to supply natural gas to certain natural gas-fired electric generating facilities that we own and lease, which increase our exposure to the more volatile market prices of natural gas. We have natural gas supply contracts in place which are generally short term in duration. The natural gas supply commitments are either fixed price in nature or market-based. As some of the contracts are market-based, and all of the contracts are short-term, we may not be able to purchase natural gas on terms as favorable as the current contracts when the current contracts expire. Further, any disruption of production or transportation of natural gas may cause us to incur additional costs to purchase natural gas that may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We obtain a portion of our electricity from the market, increasing our exposure to the volatility of market and spot market prices. The derivative instruments we use to manage our commodity risks have terms allowing our counterparties to demand cash collateral. Extensive cash collateral demands could adversely impact our cash flows. Storms or natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - Storms or catastrophic natural disasters may impact our operations. Storms and natural disasters may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth, or cause a decline, in the economy within our service territories. Storms and natural disasters may prevent our customers from being able to operate causing lower sales and revenues. In addition, we could incur large costs of repairing damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure due to storms or natural disasters. The loss of revenues may not be recovered. The restoration costs may not be fully covered by insurance policies. Some costs may not be recovered in rates, or there could be significant delays in cost recovery. Any of these items could adversely effect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Extensive flooding in the Midwest in June 2008 caused catastrophic damage in our Iowa service territory. As a result of the flooding, we incurred significant storm restoration costs for the repair and/or replacement of our property damaged by the flooding and expect to incur additional costs. Certain of the storm restoration costs may not qualify for recovery under our flood insurance policy and the total storm restoration costs may exceed the amount of our flood insurance coverage limit of $100 million. Therefore, insurance may not cover all of our costs. The flooding caused extensive damage to our Sixth Street Generating Facility, which has historically been the primary source of steam for customers in downtown Cedar Rapids, Iowa, but remains out of service following the flood. We currently provide steam for customers in downtown Cedar Rapids using a temporary steam generating system. Because we were unable to secure long-term contracts with steam customers to ensure recovery of investment to rebuild the Sixth Street Generating Facility, we expect to discontinue providing long-term steam service in downtown Cedar Rapids in the future. Discontinuing steam service is expected to result in lost operating margins and may result in future impairments for stranded assets associated with our steam business. We are unable to predict with certainty the amount or timing of any insurance and regulatory recoveries of the storm restoration costs. As a result, the financial impacts of the flooding may have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Costs of compliance with existing and future laws and the incurrence of liabilities, particularly related to the environment, could adversely affect our profitability - Our operations are subject to extensive regulation including environmental protection laws and regulations relating to, among other things, water discharges, management of hazardous and solid waste, and air emissions such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and mercury. Laws and regulations affecting our operations have recently been adopted by the EPA and are being implemented in the states we operate. In addition, new regulations from federal and state authorities are under consideration and may be adopted, requiring modifications to our utility operations. New interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities. Rules may be adopted and then overturned by courts, such as the Clean Air Mercury Rule, or sent back to the EPA for revisions, such as the Clean Air Interstate Rule. These regulations, possible new regulations and possible new interpretations may substantially increase compliance expenditures made by us or restrict our operations in the future. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as approval of air permits, opacity and other air quality standards which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to environmental matters, although we expect them to be material. The risks associated with compliance and estimating compliance costs include the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations, the possible inability to obtain necessary materials or skilled labor force required for certain equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, the rising costs of equipment, services and labor related to environmental compliance, the possibility that technology will not perform as anticipated, the uncertainty regarding the type of compliance that will finally be required by rules and regulations, partner considerations with respect to our joint-owned facilities, the uncertain treatment of expenditures by regulators in setting our rates and the uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. We plan to move forward with environmental control projects that were planned to comply with the Clean Air Interstate Rule because we expect similar environmental regulations to be adopted in the future. We also purchased emissions credits to comply with the Clean Air Interstate Rule. State utility commissions may not approve such projects because the current requirements for them are in question, or may not allow us to recover costs of the projects and emissions credits if future regulations are not adopted or changed significantly from current regulations. Further, more stringent environmental regulations could be adopted in the future, requiring controls in addition to those currently planned. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Actions related to global climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions could impact us - The primary greenhouse gas emitted from our utility operations is carbon dioxide (CO2) from combustion of fossil fuels at our generating facilities. Our generating facilities are primarily coal-fired facilities, and our strategic plan may include the construction of additional coal-fired facilities, which would emit CO2. Various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered at the federal and state levels. The Supreme Court has ruled that CO2 may be regulated by the EPA. The new presidential administration has indicated that regulating CO2 will be an important part of its energy and environmental policy and has already directed the EPA to consider regulating CO2 emissions from cars. Several bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress that would compel CO2 emission reductions. While none have yet been passed by Congress, the various bills remain pending. Proposals under consideration include limitations on the amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted (so called “caps”) together with systems of trading permitted emissions capacities. This type of system could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase costly allowances for such emissions. Emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. In addition, we may be required to reduce our customers’ use of electricity, thereby reducing our sales. The Governors of all of the states in our service territory have signed on to the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord (Accord). The stated goal of the Accord’s platform is to “maximize the energy resources and economic advantages and opportunities of Midwestern states while reducing emissions of atmospheric CO2 and other greenhouse gases.” Each state in our service territory has established a board or commission regarding reducing CO2 emissions. We would be subject to any regulations that are adopted in the future, and could become the target of an investigation, because generating electricity emits CO2. Furthermore, state regulators may consider future climate change policy implications in proceedings related to our request to construct additional coal-fired electric generating units as well as environmental upgrades to existing facilities. Future regulation of CO2 emissions could make some of our electric generating facilities uneconomic to maintain or operate. The cost to comply with future potential CO2 emissions regulations could be very high. There is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover compliance costs or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. Due to the uncertainty of what form CO2 emissions regulations could take, control technologies available to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including CO2, and the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. In addition, we cannot predict if, or how, state regulators may factor this issue into approvals and permits for us to build new or modify existing coal-fired generation. All such regulatory results could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategic plan and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 We are exposed to risks related to economic conditions - Our utility operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories. If economic conditions decline in our service territories, we may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas, which could result in decreased earnings and cash flows. In addition, adverse economic conditions in our service territories could negatively impact our collections of receivables. Our service territories are currently experiencing the national recession, which impacts our business by reducing the number of industrial customers in our service territories, reducing the amount of electricity we sell to customers and making it more difficult to collect receivables owed by our customers. A decline in economic conditions in our service territories could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Inability to access financial markets - We rely on accessing the capital markets to support capital expenditure programs and other capital requirements, including expenditures to build utility infrastructure and comply with future regulatory requirements. Successful implementation of our strategic plan and other long-term business strategies is dependent upon the ability of us to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates. We have forecasted capital expenditures of approximately $4 billion overc the next three years. Capital markets, particularly debt markets, have been under considerable strain recently, resulting in negative impacts on the availability and terms of credit available to certain businesses. Any national economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could reduce our access to capital necessary for our operations and executing our strategic plan. If the current credit crisis continues or worsens, we may be unable to access the credit markets, or our cost of borrowing might significantly increase. If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, the volatility of the capital markets or other factors, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by the impacts of weather - Our electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with air conditioning requirements. In addition, market prices for electricity peak in the summer. Demand for natural gas depends significantly upon weather patterns in winter months due to heavy use for residential and commercial heating. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer. We expect that unusually mild winters and summers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers could adversely affect our operating results - We are currently obligated to supply electric energy in parts of Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota. From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability and energy commitments pursuant to purchased power agreements. The North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our delivery systems. Power outages in our service territories could result from factors outside of our control or service territories. If this occurs, we may have to buy electric energy in the market. Our utilities may not always have the ability to pass all the costs of purchasing the electric energy on to their customers, and even if they are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high. Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could diminish our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The transmission system in our utilities’ service territories, especially in Wisconsin, is constrained, limiting the ability to transmit electric energy within our service territories and access electric energy from outside of our service territories. The transmission constraints could result in failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers or not being able to access lower cost sources of electric energy. Failure to provide safe and reliable service, including effects of equipment failures in electric and natural gas delivery systems or market demand for energy exceeding available supply, may result in reduced revenues and increased maintenance and capital costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Operation of electric generating facilities or capital improvement of utility facilities may involve unanticipated changes or delays in operations that could negatively impact our business - The operation of electric generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, use of technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. These risks could negatively impact our business through asset degradation, lost revenues or increased costs, including the cost of replacement power. Additionally, our ability to successfully and timely complete planned capital improvements to existing facilities within established budgets is contingent upon many variables and may be subject to substantial risks. Should such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and increased risk of non-recovery of construction or improvement costs through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An adverse result in the litigation over the Exchangeable Senior Notes originally issued by Resources could adversely impact our financial condition - Alliant Energy and Resources received a notice of default, (Notice of Default), from U.S. Bank National Association as successor indenture trustee (Trustee) pursuant to which the Trustee asserted that Resources was in default under the Indenture with respect to the Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2030 (Notes), which were issued by Resources and were guaranteed by Alliant Energy. The alleged default relates to a provision of the Indenture that provides that if Resources transfers all or substantially all of its properties and assets to a third party, then the transferee must be organized and existing under the laws of the U.S. or a state thereof and assume Resources’ obligations under the Notes and the Indenture. The Trustee alleges in the Notice of Default that Resources transferred substantially all of its assets without complying with the Indenture and, as a result, a default has occurred under the Indenture. The Trustee also filed a complaint in Federal court (Court) seeking a ruling that Resources is in breach of the Indenture. Although we intend to vigorously defend against such litigation, we cannot predict how the Court will ultimately rule on this matter. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in this litigation, and the Trustee or the holders of the Notes declared the principal amount of all the outstanding Notes to be immediately due and payable, then we would be required to pay the aggregate principal amount of the Notes of $402.5 million plus accrued interest and record a pre-tax loss of approximately $365 million based on the amount of unamortized debt discount and unamortized debt expense on Alliant Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at Dec. 31, 2008. In such an event, to make such payment, we would be required to use existing cash on hand, which could divert capital from other strategic projects of ours, and/or borrow money, which could be at higher interest rates than we currently pay on the Notes. In addition, an “Event of Default” under the Indenture would also trigger cross default provisions in Alliant Energy’s credit facility agreement and IPL’s sale of accounts receivable program agreement that could result in the termination of such agreements. A loss in this litigation could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends - Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. Accordingly, the primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations and the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries. Our utilities each have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets. The effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit electric energy, the risk of significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, disruption or volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance. Terrorist threats and activities may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth, or cause a decline, in the economy within our service territories, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure due to acts of terrorism, and the loss of revenue if such events prevent us from providing utility service to our customers, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses - We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with employees and work stoppage that could affect our businesses and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, our workforce is dominated by members of the baby boomer generation who are nearing retirement. As a large portion of our workforce prepares to retire, we must recruit and train new employees to replace them. Costs of recruitment and the ability to find qualified employees are expected to become more difficult as our workforce retires. These factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses - As a public utility company with significant utility assets, we conduct our utility operations in an ever-changing business environment. The advent of new markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The evolution of the wholesale and transmission markets has the potential to significantly increase costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the new markets and costs stemming from estimated payment settlements. Competitive pressures, including advances in technology that reduce the costs of alternative methods of producing electric energy to a level that is competitive with that of current electric production methods, could result in our utilities losing market share and customers and incurring stranded costs (i.e., assets and other costs rendered unrecoverable through customer rates as a result of competitive pricing), which would be borne by our shareowners. Increased competition from any restructuring efforts in our primary retail electric service territories may have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 