ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to the regulation of our business could impact the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability - We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory authorities, which significantly influences our operating environment and the ability to timely recover costs from customers. In particular, our utility operations are regulated by regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over public utilities, including the IUB, the PSCW, the MPUC and FERC. These authorities regulate many aspects of our operations, including: rates charged to customers; costs of fuel, purchased power and natural gas that can be recovered from customers; the authorized rates of return on capital; the amount of deferred costs that may be recovered from customers; our ability to site and construct new generating facilities; authorization to install environmental pollution control equipment and whether equipment costs can be recovered from customers; construction and maintenance of facilities; operations, including requiring certain sources of energy such as renewable sources and reductions in energy usage by customers; safety; issuance of securities; accounting matters; and transactions between affiliates. Further, provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility activities and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to maintain current rates of return depends upon regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and we cannot assure that rate adjustments will be obtained or current authorized rates of return on capital will be earned. These regulatory authorities are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions on us if we are found to have violated statutes and regulations governing utility operations. IPL and WPL from time to time file rate cases with federal and state regulatory authorities. In future rate cases, if IPL and WPL do not receive an adequate amount of rate relief, rates are reduced, increased rates are not approved on a timely basis or costs are otherwise unable to be recovered through rates, we may experience an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional costs or change business operations or our business plan, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 Risks related to implementing our strategic plan - Our strategic plan is based on increasing our electric generating capacity to meet our customers’ needs by building hybrid base-load coal-fired generating facilities with biomass fuel capability and wind generating facilities. The construction of generating facilities is subject to many risks, which may cause increased costs or inability to recover costs, or may impede or block our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. The state utility commissions may not permit us to site or construct the generating facilities. This decision could be based upon any number of factors, including their determination that there is no need for the facilities, the lowering of our required electric reserve margin, too large of customer rate increases associated with the new generating facilities, technology changes, environmental concerns or other factors. If we receive regulatory approval to build the facilities, advocacy groups or other associations may file lawsuits seeking to overturn or modify the regulatory approvals. If the state utility commissions do not approve the new generating facilities, or if certain groups successfully challenge the state utility commissions’ decisions to allow the generating facilities, we will not be able to implement our strategic plan and our financial condition and ability to serve our customers could be negatively affected. Further, large construction projects, such as the building of coal and wind generating facilities, are subject to various risks that could cause costs to increase or delays in completion. These risks include shortages of, the inability to obtain, the cost of and the consistency of labor, materials and equipment, the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts, the inability to agree to terms of contracts or disputes in contract terms, work stoppages, adverse weather conditions, the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner, changes in applicable laws or regulations, adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, governmental actions, legal action, and unforeseen engineering or technology issues. If the construction of a generating facility is over budget, we may not be able to recover those excess costs. Inability to recover excess costs, or inability to complete construction in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in commodity prices or the availability of commodities may increase the cost of producing electric energy or change the amount we receive from selling electric energy, harming our financial performance - The prices that we may obtain for electric energy may not compensate for changes in delivered coal, natural gas or electric energy spot-market costs, or changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of electric energy. As a result, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers, which may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal because the majority of the electricity generated by us is from our coal-fired generating facilities. We have contracts of varying durations for the supply and transportation of coal for most of our existing generating capability, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. Further, we currently rely on coal primarily from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and any disruption of coal production in, or transportation from, that region may cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also have responsibility to supply natural gas to certain natural gas-fired electric generating facilities that we own and lease, which increase our exposure to the more volatile market prices of natural gas. We have natural gas supply contracts in place which are generally short term in duration. The natural gas supply commitments are either fixed price in nature or market-based. As some of the contracts are market-based, and all of the contracts are short-term, we may not be able to purchase natural gas on terms as favorable as the current contracts when the current contracts expire. Further, any disruption of production or transportation of natural gas may cause us to incur additional costs to purchase natural gas that may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The derivative instruments we use to manage our commodity risks have terms allowing our counterparties to demand cash collateral. Extensive cash collateral demands could adversely impact our cash flows. 18 Costs of compliance with existing and future laws and the incurrence of liabilities, particularly related to the environment, could adversely affect our profitability - Our operations are subject to extensive regulation including environmental protection laws and regulations relating to, among other things, water discharges, management of hazardous and solid waste, and air emissions such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and mercury. Laws and regulations affecting our operations have recently been adopted by the EPA and are being implemented in the states we operate, including the Clean Air Mercury Rule and the Clean Air Interstate Rule. In addition, new regulations from federal and state authorities are under consideration and may be adopted, requiring modifications to our utility operations. New interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities. These regulations, possible new regulations and possible new interpretations may substantially increase compliance expenditures made by us or restrict our operations in the future. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to environmental matters, although we expect them to be material. The risks associated with compliance and estimating compliance costs include the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations, the possible inability to obtain necessary materials or skilled labor force required for certain equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, the rising costs of equipment, services and labor related to environmental compliance, the possibility that technology will not perform as anticipated, the uncertainty regarding the type of compliance that will finally be required by rules and regulations, partner considerations with respect to our joint-owned facilities, the uncertain treatment of expenditures by regulators in setting our rates and the uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Actions related to global climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions could impact us - The primary greenhouse gas emitted from our utility operations is carbon dioxide (CO2) from combustion of fossil fuels at our generating facilities. Our generating facilities are primarily coal-fired facilities, and our strategic plan includes the construction of additional coal-fired facilities, which emit CO2. Various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered at the federal and state levels, and such laws or regulations would require greenhouse gas emissions reductions that could affect utility operations, including such actions as expansion of energy conservation and renewable generation sources. Furthermore, state regulators may consider future climate change policy implications in proceedings related to our requests to construct additional coal-fired electric generating units in Iowa and Wisconsin as well as environmental upgrades to existing facilities. Due to the uncertainty of control technologies available to reduce greenhouse gas emissions including CO2, as well as the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. In addition, we cannot predict if, or how, state regulators may factor this issue into approvals and permits for us to build new or modify existing coal-fired generation. All such regulatory results could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategic plan and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by the impacts of weather - Our electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with air conditioning requirements. In addition, market prices for electricity peak in the summer. Demand for natural gas depends significantly upon weather patterns in winter months due to heavy use for residential and commercial heating. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer. We expect that unusually mild winters and summers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers could adversely affect our operating results - We are currently obligated to supply electric energy in parts of Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota. From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability and energy commitments pursuant to purchased power agreements. The North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our delivery systems. Power outages in our service territories could result from factors outside of our control or service territories. If this occurs, we may have to buy electric energy in the market. Our utilities may not always have the ability to pass all the costs of purchasing the electric energy on to their customers, and even if they are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high. Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could diminish our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The transmission system in our utilities’ service territories, especially in Wisconsin, is constrained, limiting our ability to transmit electric energy within our service territories and access electric energy from outside of our service territories. The transmission constraints could result in failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers or not being able to access lower cost sources of electric energy. Failure to provide safe and reliable service, including effects of equipment failures in electric and natural gas delivery systems or market demand for energy exceeding available supply, may result in reduced revenues and increased maintenance and capital costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, storms or natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets. The effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit electric energy, the risk of significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, disruption or volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance. Storms or catastrophic natural disasters may also impact our operations. Terrorist threats and activities, storms and natural disasters may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or transmit electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth, or cause a decline, in the economy within our service territories, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure due to acts of terrorism, storms or natural disasters, and the loss of revenue if such events prevent us from providing utility service to our customers, could adversely effect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Operation of electric generating facilities or capital improvement of utility facilities may involve unanticipated changes or delays in operations that could negatively impact our business - The operation of electric generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, use of technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. These risks could negatively impact our business through asset degradation, lost revenues or increased costs, including the cost of replacement power. Additionally, our ability to successfully and timely complete planned capital improvements to existing facilities within established budgets is contingent upon many variables and may be subject to substantial risks. Should such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and increased risk of non-recovery of construction or improvement costs through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to risks related to economic conditions - Our utility operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories. If economic conditions decline in our service territories, we may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas which could result in decreased earnings and cash flows. In addition, adverse economic conditions in our service territories could negatively impact our collections of accounts receivable. Any national economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could reduce our access to capital necessary for our operations and executing our strategic plan. A decline in economic conditions in our service territories or nationally could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends - Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. Accordingly, the primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations and the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries. Our utilities each have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock. We may incur material post-closing adjustments related to past asset and business divestitures - We recently sold several non-core assets and businesses, including our international businesses and IPL’s electric transmission assets. Pursuant to the terms of those sales, we may face post-closing adjustments that could be material. In addition, we might be required to make payments on liabilities that we retained pursuant to the terms of the sales. Required material post-closing adjustments or payments on retained liabilities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses - We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with employees and work stoppage that could affect our businesses and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, our workforce is dominated by members of the baby boomer generation who are nearing retirement. As a large portion of our workforce prepares to retire, we must recruit and train new employees to replace them. Costs of recruitment and the ability to find qualified employees are expected to become more difficult as our workforce retires. These factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Inability to access financial markets - We rely on accessing the capital markets to support capital expenditure programs and other capital requirements, including expenditures to build utility infrastructure and comply with future regulatory requirements. Successful implementation of our strategic plan and other long-term business strategies is dependent upon the ability of us to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates. We have forecasted capital expenditures of over $4 billion over the next three years. Capital markets, particularly debt markets, have been under considerable strain recently, resulting in negative impacts on the availability and terms of credit available to certain businesses. If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, the volatility of the capital markets, or other factors, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly adversely affected. Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses - As a public utility company with significant utility assets, we conduct our utility operations in an ever-changing business environment. The advent of new markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The evolution of the wholesale and transmission markets has the potential to significantly increase costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the new markets and costs stemming from estimated payment settlements. Competitive pressures, including advances in technology that reduce the costs of alternative methods of producing electric energy to a level that is competitive with that of current electric production methods, could result in our utilities losing market share and customers and incurring stranded costs (i.e., assets and other costs rendered unrecoverable through customer rates as a result of competitive pricing), which would be borne by our shareowners. Although the pace of restructuring in our primary retail electric service territories has been delayed (and may continue to be delayed for a long period of time) due to uncertainty and developments in the industry, we cannot predict the timing of a restructured electric industry or the impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 