ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our business is significantly impacted by government regulation - We are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state regulatory authorities, which significantly influences our operations and our ability to timely recover costs from customers and earn authorized rates of return. In particular, regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over public utilities, including the IUB, the PSCW, the MPUC and FERC, regulate many aspects of our operations, including: the rates charged to our customers; our ability to site and construct new generating facilities, such as the proposed natural gas generating facility in Iowa and future wind projects to utilize our remaining available wind sites, and the amount of costs associated therewith that may be recovered from customers; the installation of environmental emission control equipment and the amount of costs for the construction and maintenance of such equipment that may be recovered from customers; our ability to decommission generating facilities and recover the costs incurred to decommission the facilities and the remaining carrying value of such facilities; the amount of certain sources of energy such as renewable sources and reductions in energy usage by customers; our ability to purchase generating facilities, such as the Riverside Energy Center and the amount of costs associated therewith that may be recovered from customers; the rates paid to transmission operators; safety; the issuance of securities; accounting 21 Table of Contents matters; and transactions between affiliates. These regulatory authorities are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions if we are found to have violated statutes and regulations governing utility operations. Failure to obtain approvals from regulatory authorities, failure to receive approvals in a timely manner, or receiving approvals with uneconomical conditions, to recover costs, construct new generating facilities, purchase generating facilities, install environmental emission control equipment or decommission generating facilities may adversely impact our ability to achieve our strategic plan, cause us to record an impairment of our assets, and have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. In addition, our utility financial condition is influenced by how these regulatory authorities establish our authorized rates of return and common equity levels, and the amount of deferred costs that may be recovered from customers. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to earn authorized rates of return depends upon timely regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and we cannot assure that rate adjustments will be obtained or authorized rates of return on capital will be earned. In pending and future rate cases, IPL and WPL may not receive an adequate amount of rate relief, rates may be reduced, rate refunds may be required, rate adjustments may not be approved on a timely basis, costs may not be otherwise recovered through rates, future rates may be temporarily frozen (as occurred in the IPL rate case in Iowa through 2013) and authorized rates of return on capital may be reduced. As a result, we may experience adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional costs or change business operations or our business plan, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of regulations, including and in addition to those described above, which are constantly changing. While we believe we comply with all laws and regulations governing us, state or federal agencies may not agree and may find that our compliance programs are inadequate. Such a finding could cause fines or penalties or could require us to implement new compliance programs which could increase our costs of compliance and may adversely impact our financial condition. Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act (WUHCA) limit our ability to invest in non-utility activities. Takeover attempts by potential purchasers who might be willing to pay a premium for our stock are also limited by certain provisions of WUHCA and the delays and conditions that generally result from the requirement that regulatory authorities approve such a transaction. Large construction projects are subject to delays and cost increases that may not be recovered from customers - Our strategic plan includes installing environmental control equipment, making other large-scale improvements to our newer and more-efficient coal-fired generating facilities, constructing a new wind generating facility and the potential construction of a natural gas-fired generating facility. These large construction projects are subject to various risks that could cause costs to increase or cause delays in completion. These risks include shortages of, the inability to obtain, the cost of, and the consistency of, labor, materials and equipment; the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts; the inability to agree to contract terms or disputes in contract terms; work stoppages; adverse weather conditions; the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions; changes in applicable laws or regulations; governmental actions; legal action; unforeseen engineering or technology issues; limited access to capital and other adverse economic conditions. If a construction project is not completed or is delayed or final costs exceed the costs approved by our regulators, we may not be able to recover all costs for the project in rates. Inability to recover excess costs, or inability to complete the project in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, compliance with which could be difficult and costly - We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that affect many aspects of our past, present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, cooling water intake structures, wastewater discharges, the generation, transport and disposal of coal combustion products and other solid wastes and hazardous substances, and the clean-up of contaminated sites. These laws and regulations require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals, which are subject to renewal proceedings and legal challenges. Environmental laws and regulations can also require us to restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels, to install emission control equipment at our facilities, clean up spills and correct environmental hazards and other contamination. We may be required to pay all or a portion of the cost to remediate (i.e. clean-up) sites where our past activities, or the activities of certain other parties, caused environmental contamination, including sites of former manufactured gas plants operated by our predecessors. We cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of any fines or penalties, including the severity of any restriction on our operations) necessary to comply with these environmental laws and regulations, although we expect the expenditures to be material. 22 Table of Contents Although we believe we comply in all material respects with all environmental laws and regulations, we may receive notices of violation from state or federal agencies, as occurred when the EPA issued a notice of violation to WPL in 2009 alleging non-compliance with various permitting requirements under the Clean Air Act. Citizen groups or private individuals may bring litigation over environmental issues. WPL is currently involved in matters in which the Sierra Club is alleging various violations of the Clean Air Act. If we are unsuccessful defending litigation from governmental agencies or citizen groups, we could be subject to restrictions or prohibitions on operating our generation facilities, costly upgrades to our generation facilities, payment of damages or fines, requirements to complete other beneficial environmental projects, and litigation costs, all of which could be material. An adverse result in such legal actions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to mandates to provide customers with clean energy, renewable energy and energy conservation offerings. These mandates are designed in part to mitigate the potential environmental impacts of utility operations. Failure to meet the requirements of these mandates may result in fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If our regulators do not allow us to recover all or a part of the costs incurred to comply with the mandates, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Existing environmental laws or regulations may be revised and new laws or regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us, including but not limited to regulation of mercury, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, particulates, coal ash and other coal combustion products, and cooling water intake structures. Such changes could materially increase our cost of compliance. Our strategic plan was developed in part to comply with the environmental laws and regulations as we anticipate they will be finally adopted. Revision of existing environmental laws or regulations may cause (i) state utility commissions to not approve our plans to install environmental emission control equipment at our existing generating facilities or not allow us to recover costs of such projects, (ii) state utility commissions to not approve costs of emission allowances purchased to comply with environmental regulations that are no longer applicable to our operations, (iii) co-owners in our jointly-owned facilities to not agree with our decision to move forward with these projects, or (iv) our current plans to not meet new requirements. These outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Demand for energy may decrease - Adverse economic conditions in our service territories, such as the most recent recession, reduce the demand for electricity and natural gas. We lost certain customers after plants closed due to the most recent recession and could lose additional customers due to economic conditions, customers constructing their own generation facilities, or loss of service territory or franchises. Further, the energy conservation and technological advances that increase energy efficiency may temporarily or permanently reduce the demand for energy products. In addition, state and/or federal regulations require mandatory conservation measures, which would reduce the demand for energy. We may also lose wholesale customers to competitors. Future economic growth may not create enough growth for us to replace the lost energy demand from these customers. The loss of customers, the inability to replace those customers with new customers, and the decrease in demand for energy could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by the impacts of weather - Our electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with higher air conditioning needs. In addition, market prices for electricity generally peak in the summer due to the higher demand. Conversely, demand for natural gas depends significantly upon weather patterns in winter months due to heavy use in residential and commercial heating. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer. Thus, unusually mild winters and summers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to fully recover costs related to commodity prices - The prices that we may obtain for electric energy may not compensate for changes in delivered coal, natural gas or electric energy spot-market costs, or changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of electric energy. As a result, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers, especially at WPL where we do not have a retail automatic fuel cost adjustment clause, which allows more consistent and timely cost recovery. We are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal because the majority of the electricity generated by us is from our coal-fired generating facilities. We have contracts of varying durations for the supply and transportation of coal for most of our existing generating capability, but as these 23 Table of Contents contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. Further, we currently rely on coal primarily from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and any disruption of coal production in, or transportation from, that region may cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We also have responsibility to supply natural gas to certain natural gas-fired electric generating facilities that we own and lease, which increases our exposure to volatile market prices of natural gas. We have natural gas supply contracts in place, which are generally short-term in duration. The natural gas supply commitments are either fixed price in nature or market-based. As some of the contracts are market-based, and all of the contracts are short-term, we may not be able to purchase natural gas on terms as favorable as the current contracts when the current contracts expire. Further, any disruption of production or transportation of natural gas may cause us to incur additional costs to purchase natural gas that may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to non-regulated operations - We have two non-regulated subsidiaries that operate in the renewable energy market. RMT is a subsidiary that offers facility siting, permitting, design, procurement, construction and high voltage connection services for wind and solar projects in the U.S. We recently announced plans to sell RMT. We cannot currently predict whether we will find a buyer for RMT or be able to consummate a sale of RMT, the amount of consideration we might receive for RMT, or whether RMT will regain profitability. The contractual terms and conditions of certain projects currently or previously serviced by RMT, including Alliant Energy’s parental guarantee obligations and financing provided to customers, may hinder RMT’s ability to be profitable on certain projects, may impact the ability to sell or the sale price of RMT, and may materially impact our financial condition. Our inability to effect a strategic alternative for RMT, or continued losses incurred by RMT, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Franklin County Wind LLC is a subsidiary that is building a non-regulated 100 MW wind project in Franklin County, Iowa, referred to as the Franklin County wind project. The Franklin County wind project does not currently have a buyer of the electrical output expected to be generated by the project when completed. Failure to find a buyer for the output, or selling the output at disadvantageous pricing, may cause the project to lose money or cause an impairment of its assets. Such losses or impairments could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the capital markets and could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the capital markets - Successful implementation of our strategic plan and other long-term business strategies is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates. We have forecasted capital expenditures of $4 billion over the next four years. Capital markets, particularly debt markets, have come under considerable strain in the past few years, resulting in negative impacts on the availability and terms of credit available to certain businesses. In August 2011, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. The effect of this or any further downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, and the effect of the economic crisis in Europe with respect to the ability of certain European Union countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations, is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. In turn, any national economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could reduce our access to capital necessary to execute our strategic plan and for our operations as we may be unable to access the credit markets or may face significantly higher costs of borrowing. We rely on our strong credit ratings to access the credit markets. If our credit ratings are downgraded for any reason, we could pay higher interest rates in future financings, the pool of potential lenders could be reduced, borrowing costs under existing credit facilities could increase, our access to the commercial paper market could be limited, or we could be required to provide additional credit assurance, including cash collateral, to contract counterparties. If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, the volatility of the capital markets or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses - We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of and our ability to recruit qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with employees and work stoppage that could affect our businesses and financial condition and results of operations. Further, our workforce includes employees who are nearing retirement. We need employees with specialized and technical skills in order to achieve our strategic plan. It may be difficult to retain current employees with these specialized skills, especially as they near retirement, and it may be difficult to find new employees with the necessary skills. These factors could adversely affect our ability to implement our strategic plan and our financial condition. 24 Table of Contents We face risks associated with operating electric and natural gas infrastructure - The operation of electric generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency, operator error and compliance with mandatory reliability standards. In addition, the North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our delivery systems. Further, the transmission system in our utilities’ service territories is constrained, limiting the ability to transmit electric energy within our service territories and access electric energy from outside of our service territories. The transmission constraints could result in failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers and the inability to deliver energy from generating facilities, particularly wind generating facilities, to the national grid, or not being able to access lower cost sources of electric energy. We also have obligations to provide electrical service under regulatory requirements and contractual commitments. Failure to meet our service obligations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The operation of our natural gas distribution activities also involves many risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. These risks could result in loss of human life, particularly in highly populated areas, significant damage to property, environmental emissions, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. We also have obligations to provide service under regulatory requirements and contractual commitments. Failure to meet our service obligations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Storms or other natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - Storms and other natural disasters, including events such as floods, tornados or ice storms, may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth or cause a decline in the economy within our service territories. Storms and natural disasters may prevent our customers from being able to operate, causing lower sales and revenues, which may not be replaced or recovered in rates. In addition, we could incur large costs of repairing damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure, or costs related to environmental remediation, due to storms or natural disasters. The restoration costs may not be fully covered by insurance policies. Damage to assets could also require us to take impairments, such as occurred with our damaged Sixth Street Generating Station. Some costs may not be recovered in rates, or there could be significant delays in cost recovery. Any of these items could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends - Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. Accordingly, the primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries, primarily its utility subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations and the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries. Our utilities each have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock. Changes to certain tax elections, tax regulations and future taxable income could negatively impact our financial condition - Our strategic plan includes our utility subsidiaries and Resources building and operating wind generating facilities. The health of, and growth of, the wind market is impacted by government incentives, such as the production tax credits and cash grants. We currently operate wind generating facilities for which we receive production tax credits. If we were to elect a cash grant for certain facilities that have already been placed in service, we may incur material charges against earnings for the recapture of previously recognized production tax credits. The failure of tax incentives to work as expected or the elimination of, or changes to, these incentives could adversely impact our ability to achieve our strategic plan and could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have significantly reduced our federal and state income tax obligations for the past few years through tax planning strategies. These tax planning strategies have generated large annual taxable losses over the past few years that have resulted in significant federal and state net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards. We plan to utilize these NOL carryforwards in the future to reduce our income tax obligations. If we cannot generate enough taxable income in the future to utilize all of the NOL carryforwards before they expire, we may incur material charges to earnings. Further, a future disallowance of some or all of the NOL carryforwards, or a change to the period of time in which we are able to utilize the NOL carryforwards, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Changes to the level of revenues generated in the different states we operate or changes to tax laws in such states may impact how we apportion our taxable income to each state, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If corporate tax rates were changed with future federal or state legislation, we may be required to take material charges against earnings. Finally, we have a tax benefit rider in place in Iowa that provides billing credits to our customers. We have made certain assumptions regarding the timing of the tax benefit rider for accounting purposes. If those assumptions are not accurate, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Poor performance of pension and other postretirement plan investments could negatively impact our financial condition - We have pension and other postretirement benefit plans that provide benefits to a large portion of our employees and retirees. Costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of these plans are subject to changes in the market value of the assets that fund the plans. As a result of the extreme volatility and disruption in the domestic and international equity and bond markets in recent years, the asset values of our pension plans have fluctuated significantly since 2008. The funded status of the plans and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Future losses of asset values may necessitate accelerated funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. Downward pressure on the asset values of our pension plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than originally planned, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Actions related to global climate change and reducing GHG emissions could negatively impact us - The primary GHG emitted from our utility operations is carbon dioxide (CO2) from combustion of fossil fuels at our generating facilities. Our generating facilities are primarily coal-fired facilities. We could be subject to any regulations that are adopted in the future, and could become the target of legal claims or challenges, because generating electricity using fossil fuels emits CO2 and other GHGs. Due to the uncertainty of what form CO2 emissions regulations could take, control technologies available to reduce GHG emissions, including CO2, and the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts any future regulations would have on our operations. The impacts of such proposals could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with our use of derivatives - We use derivative instruments to manage commodity price volatility. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. In addition, the derivative instruments that we use may not offset the underlying exposure being mitigated as expected, due to pricing inefficiencies or other terms of the derivative instruments, and any such failure to mitigate exposure could result in financial losses. The derivative instruments we use to manage our commodity risks have terms allowing our counterparties to demand cash collateral. Extensive cash collateral demands could adversely impact our cash flows. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was enacted. One of the most significant financial provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act for us is a commercial end-user exemption that is expected to allow utilities to continue trading derivatives “over-the-counter” without having to make such trades through cleared exchanges with collateral requirements. If, as a result of the rulemaking associated with the Dodd-Frank Act, we do not qualify for the end-user exemption, we could be subject to higher collateral requirements, which could adversely impact our cash flows. Threats of terrorism, cyber attacks, and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism and cyber attacks may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets of both physical and cyber attacks. The risks posed by such attacks could include, among other things, the disruption of, volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, the increased cost of security and insurance; an adverse effect on our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources, and significantly slow growth or a decline in the economy within our service territories, all of which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure due to acts of terrorism, and the loss of revenue if such events prevent us from providing utility service to our customers, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Further, an attack could result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. As protection against such risks, we have instituted safeguards to protect our operational systems and information technology assets. FERC, through the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, requires certain safeguards be implemented to prevent cyber attacks. The safeguards we have may not always be effective due to the evolving nature of cyber attacks and cyber security. We cannot guarantee that such protections will be completely successful in the event of a cyber attack. We also maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, our insurance agreements may not be adequate to protect us against all of the operational and financial risks from such an attack. Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses - We operate in a highly regulated business environment. The advent of new and unregulated markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations. The evolution of the wholesale and transmission markets has the potential to significantly increase 26 Table of Contents costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the new markets and costs stemming from estimated payment settlements. Competitive pressures, including advances in technology that reduce the costs of alternative methods of producing electric energy to a level that is competitive with that of current electric production methods, could result in our utilities losing market share and customers and incurring stranded costs (i.e. assets and other costs rendered unrecoverable through customer rates as a result of competitive pricing), which would be borne by our shareowners. Increased competition from any restructuring efforts in our primary retail electric service territories may have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 