ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to the regulation of our business could impact the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability - We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory authorities, which significantly influences our operating environment, the ability to timely recover costs from customers and to earn authorized rates of return. In particular, our utility operations are regulated by regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over public utilities, including the IUB, the PSCW, the MPUC and FERC. These authorities regulate many aspects of our operations, including rates charged to customers and the manner in which we provide utility services to our customers. The rates we charge our customers can be influenced by how these regulatory authorities allow us to recover from customers the costs of fuel, purchased power and natural gas, and other operating costs including transmission service costs. These regulatory authorities also influence our utility operations by regulating our ability to site and construct new generating facilities and the amount of costs associated therewith that may be recovered from customers; authorization to install environmental pollution control equipment and whether equipment costs can be recovered from customers, such as the construction and maintenance of facilities; operations, including requiring certain sources of energy such as renewable sources and reductions in energy usage by customers; rates paid to transmission operators; safety; issuance of securities; accounting matters; and transactions between affiliates. In addition, our utility financial condition is influenced by how these regulatory authorities establish our authorized rates of return on capital and common equity levels, and the amount of deferred costs that may be recovered from customers. Further, provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility activities and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. These regulatory authorities are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions on us if we are found to have violated statutes and regulations governing utility operations. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to earn appropriate rates of return depends upon timely regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and we cannot assure that rate adjustments will be obtained or appropriate rates of return on capital will be earned. In pending and future rate cases, IPL and WPL may not receive an adequate amount of rate relief, rates may be reduced, rate refunds may be required, rate adjustments may not be approved on a timely basis, costs may not be otherwise recovered through rates, future rates may be temporarily frozen (as occurred in the IPL rate case in Iowa through 2013) and authorized rates of return on capital may be inadequate. As a result, we may experience adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional costs or change business operations or our business plan, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to risks related to economic conditions - Our utility operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories. The most recent recession in our service territories caused our sales and revenues to decline. If economic conditions decline further in our service territories, we may experience additional reduced demand for electricity or natural gas. If future demand declines are not reflected in our rates, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. In addition, adverse economic conditions in our service territories could negatively impact our collections of receivables. We lost certain customers as a result of the most recent recession and could lose additional customers due to economic conditions, customers constructing their own generation facilities, and loss of service territory or franchises. The current economic climate, and future economic growth, may not create enough growth for us to replace the lost energy demand from these customers. The loss of customers, and the inability to replace those customers with new customers, could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Risks related to implementing our strategic plan - Our strategic plan includes investments in renewable energy and natural gas generation, environmental control equipment at existing generating facilities, potential decommissioning of older generating facilities, negotiating competitive purchase power agreements and energy efficiency. The construction or purchase of renewable energy generating facilities is subject to many risks, which may cause increased costs or inability to recover costs, or may impede or block our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. The state utility commissions may not permit us to site, construct or purchase the generating facilities, such as Riverside, a 25% interest in Edgewater Unit 5 and the remaining 100 MW of Vestas wind turbine generator sets and related equipment, or add large-scale environmental control equipment to existing generating facilities. Such a state utility commission decision could be based upon any number of factors, including the commission’s determination that there is no need for the facilities or equipment, customer rate increases associated with the new generating facilities or equipment are too large or that the added costs to the customer outweigh the benefits to the customer, technology changes, environmental concerns or other factors. State utility commissions could approve the construction or purchase of generating facilities or environmental control projects, but include conditions that make the project uneconomical. Such conditions could include low rates of return, inability to adequately recover costs or certain operating restrictions. If we receive regulatory approval to build the facilities, advocacy groups or other associations may file lawsuits seeking to overturn or modify the regulatory approvals, as has been done relative to WPL’s Bent Tree - Phase I wind project. If we receive regulatory approval, other parties to the agreement may not receive regulatory approval, or may receive regulatory approval with unacceptable conditions, and therefore, we may not be able to achieve certain strategic purchases or sales. We may not be able to negotiate competitive purchased power agreements, particularly new nuclear purchased power agreements, due to conditions placed by the other party to the agreements. Decommissioning of older generating facilities may require us to take material impairments of our assets. If we are not able to implement our strategic plan, our financial condition and ability to serve our customers could be negatively affected. Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by the impacts of weather - Our electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with air conditioning requirements. In addition, market prices for electricity generally peak in the summer due to higher demand. Demand for natural gas depends significantly upon weather patterns in winter months due to heavy use for residential and commercial heating. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer. Unusually mild winters and summers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in commodity prices or the availability of commodities may increase the cost of producing electric energy or change the amount we receive from selling electric energy, harming our financial performance - The prices that we may obtain for electric energy may not compensate for changes in delivered coal, natural gas or electric energy spot-market costs, or changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of electric energy. As a result, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers, especially at WPL where we do not have a retail automatic fuel cost adjustment clause, which allows more consistent and timely cost recovery. The PSCW recently adopted rules related to fuel recovery, but it is not clear that the rule will allow more consistent and timely fuel cost recovery. This may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal because the majority of the electricity generated by us is from our coal-fired generating facilities. We have contracts of varying durations for the supply and transportation of coal for most of our existing generating capability, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. Further, we currently rely on coal primarily from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and any disruption of coal production in, or transportation from, that region may cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We also have responsibility to supply natural gas to certain natural gas-fired electric generating facilities that we own and lease, which increases our exposure to volatile market prices of natural gas. We have natural gas supply contracts in place, which are generally short-term in duration. The natural gas supply commitments are either fixed price in nature or market-based. As some of the contracts are market-based, and all of the contracts are short-term, we may not be able to purchase natural gas on terms as favorable as the current contracts when the current contracts expire. Further, any disruption of production or transportation of natural gas may cause us to incur additional costs to purchase natural gas that may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We buy electricity from the market, and sell our generation into the market. The market prices impact the volumes of electricity bought and sold and impact our results of operations. The derivative instruments we use to manage our commodity risks have terms allowing our counterparties to demand cash collateral. Extensive cash collateral demands could adversely impact our cash flows. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was enacted. One of the most significant financial provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act for us is a commercial end-user exemption 23 Table of Contents that is expected to allow utilities to continue trading derivatives “over-the-counter” without having to make such trades through cleared exchanges with collateral requirements. If, as a result of the rulemaking associated with the Dodd-Frank Act, we do not qualify for the end-user exemption, we could be subject to higher collateral requirements, which could adversely impact our cash flows. Risks related to wind generation - Our strategic plan includes our utility subsidiaries building and operating wind generating facilities. Our subsidiary, RMT, is also dependent on growth in the wind development market. The health of, and growth of, the wind market depends on tax incentives, such as the production tax credit, and other incentives included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010, and other laws and regulations. The strategic plan also depends on the state of the economy and credit markets. The failure of tax incentives to work as expected, the elimination of or changes to these incentives, or continued economic and credit market weakness, could adversely impact our ability to achieve our strategic plan and could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Growth at RMT requires RMT to maintain and grow its current market share in the wind construction market as the market grows, while growing its market share in other renewable energy construction markets, such as solar. RMT’s inability to maintain and grow its market share of the wind and other renewable energy markets could adversely impact our ability to achieve our strategic plan and could adversely impact our results of operations. Risks related to large construction projects - Large construction projects, such as the building of renewable energy generating facilities or adding large-scale environmental control equipment to generating facilities, are subject to various risks that could cause costs to increase or delays in completion. These risks include shortages of, the inability to obtain, the cost of, and the consistency of, labor, materials and equipment; the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts; the inability to agree to terms of contracts or disputes in contract terms; work stoppages; adverse weather conditions; the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner; changes in applicable laws or regulations; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions; governmental actions; legal action; and unforeseen engineering or technology issues. If the construction project is over budget, we may not be able to recover those excess costs. Inability to recover excess costs, or inability to complete the project in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Costs of compliance with existing and future laws and the incurrence of liabilities, particularly related to the environment, could adversely affect our profitability - Our operations are subject to extensive regulation including environmental protection laws and regulations relating to, among other things, water discharges, management of hazardous and solid waste, and air emissions such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, particulate matter and mercury. Laws and regulations affecting our operations have recently been adopted by the EPA and state authorities, and are being implemented in the states we operate. In addition, new regulations from federal and state authorities, such as potential water, GHG and coal ash regulations, are under consideration and may be adopted, requiring modifications to our utility operations. New interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities. Rules may be adopted and then overturned by courts, such as the Clean Air Mercury Rule, or sent back to the EPA for revisions, such as the Clean Air Interstate Rule. These regulations, possible new regulations and possible new interpretations may substantially increase compliance expenditures made by us or restrict our operations in the future. We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites. We cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of any fines or penalties, including the severity of any restrictions on our operations) related to environmental matters, although we expect the future expenditures to be material. Further, we believe we comply with such regulations, but a state or federal oversight agency may not agree, as occurred when the EPA issued a notice of violation to WPL in December 2009 alleging non-compliance with various permitting requirements under the Clean Air Act. The risks associated with compliance and estimating compliance costs include the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations, the uncertainty regarding the type of compliance that will finally be required by rules and regulations, the possibility that a state or federal oversight agency will not agree that we are compliant, the uncertain treatment of expenditures by regulators in setting our rates, the possible inability to obtain necessary materials or skilled labor force required for certain equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, the rising costs of equipment, services and labor related to environmental compliance, the possibility that technology will not perform as anticipated, co-owner considerations with respect to our jointly-owned facilities, and the uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We have developed our generation plan, which includes investments in renewable energy, natural gas and coal generation and environmental control equipment at existing generating facilities, based on our expectations regarding these environmental regulations. If the regulations change, we may not be able to carry out our strategic plan. We also purchased emission allowances to comply with the Clean Air Interstate Rule. State utility commissions may not approve our generation projects because the current requirements for them are in question, or may not allow us to recover costs of the projects and emission allowances if future regulations are not adopted or changed as we expected. Co-owners in our jointly-owned facilities may not agree with our decision to move forward with these projects. Further, more stringent environmental regulations could be adopted in the future, requiring controls in addition to those currently planned. Failure to obtain utility commission approvals, inability to fully recover costs or failure to obtain co-owner approval could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage and personal injury. Citizen legal challenges to compliance decisions on the enforcement of environmental requirements, such as approval of air permits, opacity and other air quality standards may be brought against us. WPL is currently involved in matters in which the Sierra Club is alleging various violations of the Clean Air Act. Specifically, the Sierra Club alleged that WPL violated the Clean Air Act by not obtaining permits for various projects at its owned and co-owned generating facilities, by violating opacity limits at a generating facility, and by changing the permitted operation of a generating facility. If we are unsuccessful defending such litigation, we could be subject to restrictions or prohibitions to operating our generation facilities, costly upgrades to our generation facilities, payment of damages or fines, and litigation costs, all of which could be material. An adverse result in such legal actions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Actions related to global climate change and reducing GHG emissions could impact us - The primary GHG emitted from our utility operations is carbon dioxide (CO2) from combustion of fossil fuels at our generating facilities. Our generating facilities are primarily coal-fired facilities. Various regulations addressing climate change are being considered at the federal and state levels. The Supreme Court has ruled that CO2 may be regulated by the EPA. The EPA has determined that CO2 threatens the public health and welfare and may now regulate all CO2 emissions under the Clean Air Act. The Governors of all of the states in our service territories have signed on to the Midwestern Governors Association GHG Accord (GHG Accord). The stated goal of the GHG Accord’s platform is to “maximize the energy resources and economic advantages and opportunities of Midwestern states while reducing emissions of atmospheric CO2 and other GHG.” We could be subject to any regulations that are adopted in the future, and could become the target of challenges, because generating electricity using fossil fuels emits CO2. The impacts of such proposals could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, state regulators may consider future climate change policy implications in proceedings related to making environmental upgrades to existing facilities. Future regulation of CO2 emissions could make some of our electric generating facilities uneconomic to maintain or operate. The cost to comply with future potential CO2 emissions regulations could be very high. There is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover compliance costs or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. Due to the uncertainty of what form CO2 emissions regulations could take, control technologies available to reduce GHG emissions, including CO2, and the unknown nature of potential compliance obligations should climate change regulations be enacted, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts these future regulations would have on our operations. In addition, we cannot predict if, or how, state regulators may factor this issue into approvals and permits for us to modify our existing coal-fired generation. All such regulatory results could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategic plan and our financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to capital markets - We rely on accessing the capital markets to support capital expenditure programs and other capital requirements, including expenditures to build utility infrastructure and comply with future regulatory requirements. Successful implementation of our strategic plan and other long-term business strategies is dependent upon the ability of us to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates. We have forecasted capital expenditures of $2.8 billion over the next three years. Capital markets, particularly debt markets, were under considerable strain recently, resulting in negative impacts on the availability and terms of credit available to certain businesses. Any national economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could reduce our access to capital necessary for our operations and to execute our strategic plan. If the credit crisis returns, we may be unable to access the credit markets, or our cost of borrowing might significantly increase. We rely on our strong credit ratings to access the credit markets. If our credit ratings are downgraded for any reason, we could pay higher interest rates in future financings, the pool of potential lenders could be reduced, borrowing costs under existing credit facilities could increase, our access to the commercial paper market could be limited, or we could be required to provide additional credit assurance, including cash collateral, to contract counterparties. If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit 25 Table of Contents ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, the volatility of the capital markets or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses - We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of and our ability to recruit qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with employees and work stoppage that could affect our businesses and financial condition and results of operations. Further, our workforce is dominated by members of the baby boomer generation who are nearing retirement. As a large portion of our workforce prepares to retire, we must recruit and train new employees to replace them. Costs of recruitment are expected to increase and may not be recovered in rates, and the ability to find qualified employees is expected to become more difficult as our workforce retires. These factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers could adversely affect our operating results - We are currently obligated to supply electric energy in and natural gas to parts of Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota. From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability and energy commitments pursuant to purchased power agreements. The North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our delivery systems. Power outages in our service territories could result from factors outside of our control or service territories. If this occurs, we may have to buy electric energy in the market. Our utilities may not always have the ability to pass all the costs of purchasing the electric energy on to their customers, and even if they are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered. Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high. Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could diminish our financial condition and results of operations. The transmission system in our utilities’ service territories is constrained, limiting the ability to transmit electric energy within our service territories and access electric energy from outside of our service territories. The transmission constraints could result in failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers and the inability to deliver energy from generating facilities, particularly wind generating facilities, to the national grid, or not being able to access lower cost sources of electric energy. There are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent in our natural gas distribution activities, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, particularly in high consequence areas, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. Failure to provide safe and reliable service, including effects of equipment failures in electric and natural gas delivery systems and any resulting fines or litigation costs, or market demand for energy exceeding available supply, may result in reduced revenues and increased maintenance and capital costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Operation of electric generating facilities or capital improvement of utility facilities may involve unanticipated changes or delays in operations that could negatively impact our business - The operation of electric generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, use of technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency. These risks could negatively impact our business through asset degradation, lost revenues or increased costs, including the cost of replacement power. The distribution of natural gas involves many risks, including leaks, explosions and mechanical problems. Additionally, our ability to successfully and timely complete planned capital improvements to existing facilities within established budgets is contingent upon many variables and may be subject to substantial risks. Should such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and increased risk of non-recovery of construction or improvement costs through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Storms or other natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - Storms and other natural disasters, such as the flood of 2008 and the ice storms of 2007, may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth, or cause a decline, in the economy within our service territories. Storms and natural disasters may prevent our customers from being able to operate, causing lower sales and revenues. In addition, we could incur large costs of repairing damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure due to storms or natural disasters. The loss of revenues may not be recovered. The restoration costs may not be fully covered by insurance policies. Damage to assets could also require us to take impairments, such as occurred with our damaged Sixth Street Generating Station. Some costs may not be recovered in rates, or there could be significant delays in cost recovery. Any of these items could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends - Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. Accordingly, the primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations and the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries. Our utilities each have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities. Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets. The effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit electric energy, the risk of significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, disruption or volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance. Terrorist threats and activities may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth, or cause a decline, in the economy within our service territories, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our generating facilities and infrastructure due to acts of terrorism, and the loss of revenue if such events prevent us from providing utility service to our customers, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses - As a public utility company with significant utility assets, we conduct our utility operations in a regulated business environment. The advent of new and unregulated markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations. The evolution of the wholesale and transmission markets has the potential to significantly increase costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the new markets and costs stemming from estimated payment settlements. Competitive pressures, including advances in technology that reduce the costs of alternative methods of producing electric energy to a level that is competitive with that of current electric production methods, could result in our utilities losing market share and customers and incurring stranded costs (i.e., assets and other costs rendered unrecoverable through customer rates as a result of competitive pricing), which would be borne by our shareowners. Increased competition from any restructuring efforts in our primary retail electric service territories may have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 