Risk factors we face, including all discussions in the section below entitled “Risk Factors”, concerning things that could happen to Iomega, its products, employees, profits or other aspects of the business in the future; • Our focus or intended focus for our sales efforts and • Our belief that our balance of cash, cash equivalents and temporary investments, together with cash flows from future operations, will be sufficient to fund anticipated working capital requirements and capital expenditures related to our ongoing business for at least one year. There are numerous factors that could cause actual events or our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation, those set forth under the captions “Application of Critical Accounting Policies,” “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” included in Items 7 and 7A of Part II and “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this Annual Report was first filed with the SEC and undue reliance should not be placed on these statements. Our forward-looking statements do not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions or divestitures that may be announced or closed after the date hereof. We specifically disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements, even if our estimates change. Copyright © 2008 Iomega Corporation. All rights reserved. Iomega, Zip, REV, OfficeScreen, eGo, ScreenPlay, Jaz, IoClub and iStorage are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Iomega Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. Certain other product names, brand names and company names may be trademarks or designations of their respective owners. 3 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS: We design and market products and provide services that help our customers store and protect their valuable digital information. Our six reportable segments are based primarily on the nature of our products and include Consumer Storage Solutions (“CSS”) Products, Zip® Products, REV® Products, Network Storage Systems (“NSS”) Products, Services and Other Products. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1980. Our executive offices are located at 10955 Vista Sorrento Parkway, San Diego, CA 92130 and our telephone number is (858) 314-7000. The terms “Iomega,” “we” and “us” refer to Iomega Corporation and our wholly owned subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise specifies. We provide our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, free of charge, in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.iomega.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company’s Internet site and the information contained therein is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Product Categories We group our products into 2 categories. Our products are described in more detail below. Our Consumer Products include the following: • Iomega® desktop hard disk drives (“HDD”) • Iomega portable and eGo™ HDD drives • Iomega MiniMax and Ultramax HDD drives • Iomega ScreenPlay™ Multimedia drives • Zip drives and disks • Iomega CD-RW drives • Iomega DVD rewritable drives • Iomega Floppy USB drive and Floppy 7-in-1 card reader drive Our Business Products include the following: • REV drives and disks • REV-based Autoloaders • Iomega Network Attached Storage (“NAS”) servers • Iomega StorCenter™ network hard drives • OfficeScreen® Managed Firewall and resale of e-mail security from a third party • iStorageTM offsite remote storage • Aftermarket service plans for certain Iomega NAS servers and the REV Autoloaders Regarding all capacity references contained in this filing, one-megabyte (or “MB”) equals 1 million bytes, one gigabyte (or “GB”) equals 1 billion bytes and one terabyte (or “TB”) equals 1 trillion bytes. 4 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Availability Iomega products are generally available worldwide from retailers, direct marketing resellers (“DMRs”), distributors, original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), online vendors, value-added resellers (“VARs”) and system integrators. Iomega services are generally available from telecom resellers and distributors. We also sell our products and services through our www.iomega.com website. Consumer Products Consumer Storage Solutions Products Iomega External HDD Drives Iomega Desktop HDD Drives. Iomega desktop HDD drives (3.5-inch form factor) include certain third-party backup software packages, are available in capacities ranging from 320GB to 1.5TB and are compatible with both PC and Mac® operating systems. Iomega Portable HDD Drives. Iomega portable HDD drives (2.5-inch form factor) are available in capacities ranging from 120GB to 250GB and include our stylish, colorful and rugged eGo drives. These drives ship with certain third-party backup software packages, are host powered so they can be used without requiring a separate power supply and are compatible with both PC and Mac® operating systems. Iomega MiniMax and Ultramax Hard Drives. These single- and two-drive high performance units are designed for Mac® users with capacities ranging from 500GB to 1.5TB. The MiniMax drives are host powered, contain an interactive cooling system and are optimized for use with Mac® mini computers. Iomega ScreenPlay™ Hard Drives. Iomega Screenplay hard drives are 360GB, 500GB and 750GB Multimedia drives used for consumer entertainment purposes. These multimedia drives allow the user to play stored video, movies or music and view photos and other digital data directly on a television. Optical Drives Iomega CD-RW Drives. Iomega external CD-RW drives are used for creating customized music CDs, archiving and distributing photos and other digital data files. All current Iomega CD-RW drives are compatible with USB 2.0 interfaces and ship certain third-party software packages and are compatible with both PC and Mac® operating systems. Iomega DVD Rewritable Drives. Iomega DVD rewritable drives are used for the same purposes as CD-RW drives and for transferring and storing video content on DVD discs. Iomega Super DVD Writer supports all DVD formats (except for DVD-RAM); reads, writes and rewrites to CD-RW disks and is compatible with both PC and Mac® operating systems. All DVD drives support 4x dual layer formatted media and ship with certain third-party software packages. 5 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Consumer Products (Continued) Iomega Floppy USB Drives The Iomega Floppy USB drive is a host-powered external floppy drive that reads and writes to all formatted floppy disks and is compatible with both PC and Mac® operating systems. The Iomega Floppy Plus 7-in-1 card reader has these same features and allows users to read and retrieve data from a variety of flash media devices. Zip Products Zip Drives. We introduced the Zip drive in March of 1995. Zip drives are affordable portable storage products for personal computer users, which allow users to easily store, transport and secure data on removable disks. Zip drives are available in capacities of 100MB, 250MB and 750MB and are available in internal and external configurations with USB 2.0 and ATAPI. Zip drives are compatible with leading operating systems for personal computers and workstations (both PC and Mac®). We have ceased selling Zip drives to distributors or resellers in the European Union (“EU”) as of July 1, 2006, as a result of the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) lead free initiative. Zip drives use our proprietary Zip disks. Zip Disks. Zip disks are available in 100MB, 250MB and 750MB capacities. Sales of Zip disks continue worldwide, including the EU. Business Products REV Products REV Drives and Disks. In April of 2004, we began shipping our first generation REV products, a 35GB native capacity drive and disk. We began shipping the REV 70GB products in July of 2006. The REV products consist of a drive and removable, rugged and portable disk available in native capacities of 35GB and 70GB. With data compression, the disks have capacities up to 70GB and 140GB, respectively. The REV 35GB drive is available in external USB 2.0, Firewire and internal ATAPI, SCSI and SATA interfaces while the REV 70GB drive is available in external USB 2.0 and internal ATAPI and SATA interfaces. REV products are designed for backup, archive and high-capacity portable storage for small- and medium-sized businesses and enterprise workgroups. Other potential markets include traditional tape backup/archiving, video surveillance, professional audio/video, medical imaging data storage and high-end workstation support applications. Compared to DDS/DAT and Travan-based tape systems, REV drives and disks are faster, more durable, easier to maintain, provide random access to data and the drives are less expensive. We have developed and announced in March of 2008, a next generation REV drive with 120GB native capacity per disk. REV-Based Autoloaders. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we launched a REV-based Autoloader, which is one REV 35GB drive and holds eight 35GB removable disks. The next generation Autoloader, based on the REV 70GB platform, was launched in September of 2006, giving one drive access to 560GB on eight 70GB disks. Aftermarket service plans for REV-based Autoloader are available either separately or bundled with REV-based Autoloaders. 6 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Business Products (Continued) Iomega Network Attached Storage Products NAS Servers. We ship NAS servers with capacities ranging from 500GB to 3TB. We market our NAS products toward small- and medium-sized businesses and enterprise workgroups. Our NAS servers either use a Microsoft® Windows®-based operating system or an Iomega developed imbedded Linux operating system. Aftermarket service plans for Iomega NAS servers are available either separately or bundled with NAS servers depending upon the NAS server model. Iomega StorCenter and Home Network Hard Drives. Iomega StorCenter and Home network hard drives are available in capacities ranging from 320GB to 1TB and are compatible with PC, Mac® and Linux operating systems. With our StorCenter and Home network hard drives, multiple users can store and share files from any standard or wireless computer connected to that network. For backup applications, certain third-party applications and other miscellaneous products are included along with password protection and data management. Services Services consist of the operations of CSCI, Inc. (“CSCI”), including OfficeScreen solutions, resale of e-mail security from a third party and system integration and also Iomega services such as iStorage. We acquired CSCI in August of 2006; CSCI’s OfficeScreen managed security services include managing firewalls, providing secure remote access for small businesses and reselling e-mail security. Other Products Our Other Products segment consists of license and patent fee income (when not assigned to specific products) and products that have been discontinued or are otherwise immaterial, including Jaz® disks and Iomega software products such as Iomega Automatic Backup software and other miscellaneous products. iStorage and other services that were previously reflected in this segment have been reclassified to the Services segment under the Business Products category. The Other Products segment included the research and development of the Digital Capture Technology (“DCT”) development program, which was cancelled in the second half of 2004 but later licensed to a third party. Product Development Research and development expenses were $8.1 million, or 2% of sales, for 2007; $8.9 million, or 4% of sales, for 2006 and $14.1 million, or 5% of sales, for 2005. These expenses were incurred primarily for the research and development of REV products, and, to a lesser extent, network storage devices. Development expenses were also incurred for software enhancements as well as in the sourcing, qualification and testing of certain products, including external HDD products, CD-RW and DVD rewritable drives and other products. 7 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Product Development (Continued) Overall research and development amounts are anticipated to be similar in dollar amount in 2008 as compared to 2007. Such costs will be associated with network storage products, software enhancements, potential follow-on REV products, and sourcing, qualification and testing of Consumer Products and other products. Marketing Our worldwide marketing objective is to build Iomega brand and product awareness and to generate demand for our products and services. Our marketing efforts are focused on the positioning and messaging of our products, software and services to enhance the value of the Iomega brand. We deliver brand and product-specific messages to a variety of segments including consumers, business decision makers and Information Technology (“IT”) professionals through public relations efforts, tradeshows and events, direct marketing, internet marketing and our www.iomega.com website. These awareness-generating activities are enhanced with demand stimulus programs and promotions, such as in-store, direct mail or e-mail offers, through distribution, reseller, DMR, retail and service-provider channel partners. In addition, to enhance our ability to serve the small- to medium-sized businesses segment, we continue to actively recruit qualified VAR partners to sell our REV and NSS products. These VAR partners are supported through our IPartner and IoClub™ online initiatives, which are company sponsored groups, with marketing programs, training and sales materials. Sales We sell our products primarily through computer product and consumer electronic distributors, retailers, DMRs, VARs and on our own website. We sell our services through telecom resellers, distributors and on our own website. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II and Note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for financial information about our business segments as well as a description of the markets served by our respective products. Our CSS business is typically strongest during the fourth quarter. Our European sales are typically weaker during the summer months due to holidays. There can be no assurance that any historic sales patterns will continue and, as a result, sales for any prior period are not necessarily indicative of the sales to be expected in any future period. Retail Sales Retail outlets for our products include computer superstores, consumer electronic superstores, mail order DMRs, office supply superstores, specialty computer stores and other retail outlets. In the U.S. and Europe, we sell our products to retail channels directly, as well as indirectly through distributors. In Asia and Latin America, we sell our products indirectly to the retail channel through distributors. Certain of our products are sold at a retail level by a number of the leading retailers of computer products. 8 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Sales (Continued) Distributors We sell our products through approximately fifty distributors throughout the world, the largest customer being Ingram Micro, Inc. For the year ended December 31, 2007, sales to Ingram Micro, Inc. accounted for 24% of our consolidated sales. The loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on us. Company Website We offer our products, including various promotional items, through our www.iomega.com website. International Sales We sell our products in Europe, Asia and South America through international and local distributors. In the third quarter of 2006, we began selling direct to certain retail customers in Europe. We have sales and marketing organizations in several locations in Western Europe and Asia. The majority of sales to European customers are denominated in Euros. All sales to customers in South America and Asia are denominated in U.S. dollars. In total, sales outside of the United States were 74% for 2007, 62% for 2006 and 55% for 2005. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II and Note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for more information on international sales. OEMs and Licensees In addition to sales through retail and distribution channels, we have entered into a number of agreements with a variety of OEMs within the computer industry. We have entered into agreements with several small OEMs regarding REV internal drives. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we entered into a definitive license agreement regarding our DCT intellectual property. The license agreement terms included an upfront cash payment of $10.5 million to us and an additional fixed $3.5 million cash payment to us at a later date based upon the earlier of licensee’s commercialization date of the technology or November of 2007. The $10.5 million was reflected as a benefit to operating expenses on the consolidated statement of operations under the caption, “license and patent fee income” in 2004. We recognized the $3.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 when the related cash payment was received. During 2005, we entered into a patent agreement, whereby we received $0.4 million and the possibility of future additional royalties related to specific patents. There is no guarantee of future payments. During 2006, we entered into certain additional patent agreements, whereby we received a total of $1.1 million and the possibility of future additional royalties related to specific patents. There is no guarantee of future payments. 9 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) OEMs and Licensees (Continued) During 2007, we entered into and also received payments under certain patent agreements, whereby we received a total of $0.5 million. Additionally, we received a payment of $3.5 million under the 2004 DCT License Agreement. Supply Chain We outsource all manufacturing and certain supply chain operations. In recent years, we have changed suppliers and focused significant efforts on distribution and logistics. During 2005, we transferred the distribution and logistics operations for Asia to the same logistics partner used in our other regions to consolidate logistic vendors. During 2006, we transferred our reverse logistics services to our distribution and logistics provider to consolidate with one worldwide provider. The contract with that distribution and logistics partner expired in mid-2007. In the second quarter of 2007, in an effort to further reduce operating costs, we changed to a different global distribution, logistics and reverse logistics partner. In 2008, we will continue placing substantial focus on our supply chain and supply base to best support business objectives. These changes may include changes to the supply chain model and the supply base. As the Zip product line reaches its expected end of life, we have been making last time purchases for many of the product components and are winding down component production operations at various suppliers. The third-party manufacturing of Zip drives is expected to continue through the first quarter of 2008 and disk production is expected to continue through the end of 2008. During 2005, we entered into a last-time-buy agreement with our supplier for the flexible magnetic media used to make Zip disks and the Zip magnetic media production line has since closed down. Although we believe we are positioned to obtain an adequate supply of our products in the future, we may encounter future difficulties in achieving desired levels of product, in managing relationships with our suppliers or in locating suppliers able to meet our quality, quantity, pricing and other requirements for manufactured products. 10 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Supply Chain (Continued) Components and Sourced Products Although we have outsourced our manufacturing capabilities, we have retained responsibility for the supply of certain key components for our Zip, REV and hard drive based products. See the caption entitled “Company Operations, Components Supplies and Inventory” in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more details concerning components and sourced products. Backlog We had an order backlog of approximately $26 million at December 31, 2007 and approximately $9 million at December 31, 2006. The entire December 31, 2007 order backlog is expected to be filled early in 2008; however, the purchase agreements or purchase orders pursuant to which orders are made generally allow the customer to cancel orders without penalty. Competition Consumer Products Our Consumer Products compete with a broad variety of data storage devices. In many cases, these competing devices are similar to our products. For example, we sell external HDD drives, CD-RW drives, DVD rewritable drives and floppy drives. A number of manufacturers (including our suppliers) and competitors make and sell products that are substantially similar to our products in these areas. We compete with these manufacturers and resellers on several factors such as price, performance, brand recognition, quality, customer support, channel presence, support and software/accessories included with the drives. Given these competitive factors, we are subject to significant supply risk and situations where the manufacturer can under-price us in the market. We attempt to differentiate our non-Zip Consumer Products with our brand and software, interface, usability and other features, but can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully do so. By contrast, we are not aware of any product that shares the specific characteristics of our Zip drives and disks (affordable, removable, flexible, magnetic media with capacities ranging up to 750MB). Nevertheless, all of the substitute products identified above compete with our Zip products in areas identified above. Other products competing with our Consumer Products include internal hard drives, magnetic cartridge disk drives (that use either floppy or rigid media), magnetic tape drives and magneto optical drives. Given the wide variety of competing personal storage products in the market, we expect that Zip sales will continue to decline and will be significantly less in 2008 as compared to 2007. To the extent that our Consumer Products are used for incremental primary storage capacity, they compete with non-removable media storage devices such as conventional hard disk drives, which continue to offer increasing capacity and reliability at reduced prices. In addition, one of the key features offered by our Consumer Products, the ability to transport electronic data, is increasingly fulfilled by various internet applications. Thus, our Consumer Products compete with a variety of internet applications with respect to moving and sharing files. 11 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Competition (Continued) Business Products REV products face significant competition from a variety of technologies, including the following: entry-level and low-end magnetic tape drives; external HDDs; optical-based products incorporating either recordable or rewritable CD or DVD technology, including new products based on Blu-Ray and similar high-capacity optical storage technologies and magneto-optical technologies. Network Storage Solutions products compete with other NAS products as well as traditional methods for increasing storage on network servers, such as additional hard drives, tape drives/tapes, storage area network (“SAN”), general-purpose servers (“GPS”) and direct attached storage (“DAS”) that are connected to the system. We believe that NAS products offer a more compelling product solution than DAS or the purchase of an incremental server by being less costly per GB, more efficiently enabling workgroup file sharing, being fast and easy to deploy, and having a lower total cost of ownership because there are no applications running on the device. We compete primarily in the entry-level and low-end of the NAS market. The key competitors in these two categories include Dell, Snap Appliance, Buffalo Technology, LaCie, Netgear and Hewlett-Packard (“HP”). We intend to compete by providing home users and small businesses relevant features; competitive pricing; brand recognition; strong relationships in the retail, VAR and DMR channels; quality; customer support and strong sourcing relationships. Given that we are sourcing substantially complete products from a limited number of sources, some of whom sell products that compete with ours, we are subject to significant hardware supply risks. Managed Services Iomega OfficeScreen Managed Services compete with a variety of managed service providers, though no two service providers offer the same hardware, engineering and services. As our solution utilizes Juniper® Networks hardware, we also find ourselves in the position of competing with appliance manufacturers that offer managed services programs. Finally, the services we provide often replace legacy connectivity solutions, such as private line and frame relay, which can also be considered competition. Competitors include IBM, Sonicwall and Fortinet. OfficeScreen Services differentiate themselves in a variety of ways, including the fact that they were designed for the small/medium business (“SMB”). With OfficeScreen Services, the services are easily scalable; the SMBs do not incur any capital expenditures or need any network security expertise, making this a solution that is feasible considering their limited resources. Finally, when compared to legacy connectivity options, OfficeScreen Services are just as secure, but much more affordable. 12 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Competition (Continued) Conclusion Since the majority of our current business relates to HDD products, we believe that in order to compete successfully, we must continually reduce our product costs and operating costs of doing business. During 2007 and 2006, we continued our efforts to optimize the supply chain to gain cost efficiencies, speed time to market and better serve our customers. Through these and other actions, we are continuing to focus on reducing the costs of our products by reducing the cost of components used in our products through improved procurement processes and inventory management, product design modifications and by taking advantage of industry-wide reductions in costs and decreasing defect rates. We continually evaluate our prices and, based on continuous competition, expect to reduce product prices or offer rebates in the future. Reductions in the prices at which we sell our products or any rebates offered by us would adversely affect gross margins to the extent such reductions or rebates are not offset by reductions in the cost of such products. We believe that in order to compete successfully, we will also need to differentiate our products from the competition through branding, speed to market, a wide-variety of attractive and unique designs, ease of use, and effective marketing and advertising portraying the benefits of our products and embedded software. We believe that most consumers distinguish among competitive data storage products on the basis of some or all of the following criteria: price (cost per unit and cost per MB or GB of storage capacity), performance (speed and capacity), functionality (reliability, product size, removability and transportability), brand, design, broad market adoption and standardization of the technology across many devices, ease of installation and use, perceived functionality and utility, and security of data. Additional competitive considerations, particularly in the OEM market, are the size (form factor) of the drive and the interface type with which the drive is compatible. The data storage industry is highly competitive and we expect that the industry will remain highly competitive in the future. In addition, the data storage industry is characterized by rapid technological development. We compete with many companies that are also our suppliers and certain of these suppliers have greater financial, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. There are minimal barriers of entry to the external HDD and entry-level NAS markets and the availability of competitive products with superior performance, functionality, ease of use, security or substantially lower prices can have an immediate adverse affect on our business. 13 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Proprietary Rights We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual provisions to protect our technology. We have pending approximately 14 U.S. and foreign patent applications relating to various technology including REV drives and disks, hard drives, optical drives and various software applications, although there can be no assurance that such patents will be issued. We hold approximately 400 individually or jointly owned issued or pending U.S. and foreign patents relating to our Zip and REV drives and disks, Optical drives, flexible media technology, software applications and other technologies. Some of these patents and patent applications are subject to license agreements with third parties. Additionally, several of the patents have expired but could still be applicable for enforcing prior infringements. There can be no assurance that any patents or other intellectual property rights obtained or held by us will provide substantial value or protection to us, that they will prevent or impede a third party from developing competing products or that their validity will not be challenged or that affirmative defenses to infringement will not be asserted. We have various registered trademarks in the United States, several of which are also registered trademarks in other countries. Due to the rapid technological change that characterizes our industry, we believe that the success of our products will also depend on the technical competence and creative skill of our personnel in addition to legal protections afforded our existing drive and disk technologies. As is typical in the data storage industry, we are regularly notified of alleged claims that we may be infringing certain patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. It is not possible to predict the cost of litigation, potential damages or outcome of such claims and there can be no assurance that such claims will be resolved in our favor. An unfavorable resolution of one or more of such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. Certain technology used in, or software bundled with, our products is licensed on a royalty-bearing basis from third parties. The termination of a license arrangement could materially impact our business until a work around or suitable substitute were found. Employees At December 31, 2007, we employed 243 individuals worldwide. Four of our employees in Italy are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Government Contracts No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the United States government. Environmental Matters Compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection laws had no material effect on us in 2007 and is not expected to have a material effect in 2008. We ceased selling Zip drives and certain other products containing lead to distributors or resellers in the EU starting July 1, 2006, in the wake of RoHS lead-free initiative. 14 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES BUSINESS (Continued) Certifications Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have provided the certifications required by Rule 13a-14(a) under the Exchange Act, copies of which are filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K. In addition, an annual Chief Executive Officer certification was submitted by our Chief Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange on June 12, 2007 in accordance with the New York Stock Exchange’s listing requirements. 15 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS: Demand for Our Products and Services and Operating Efficiencies Our future operating results will depend upon our ability to develop or acquire new products or services and to operate profitably in an industry characterized by intense competition, rapid technological advances and low margins. This, in turn, will depend on a number of factors, including: • Our ability to improve and/or sustain satisfactory HDD gross margins; • Our ability to avoid disruptions to our ongoing business as we evaluate and implement strategic investments, including the completion and integration of our recently announced acquisition of ExcelStor Group; • Our ability to generate significant sales and profit margin from REV and NAS products; • Our ability to replace declining Zip revenues and profits with revenues and profits from other products; • Worldwide market conditions and demand for digital storage products and other products we continue to add as we move forward; • Our success in meeting targeted availability dates for new and enhanced products; • Our ability to develop and commercialize new intellectual property and to protect existing intellectual property; • Our ability to maintain profitable relationships with our distributors, retailers and other resellers; • Our ability to maintain an appropriate cost structure; • Our ability to attract and retain competent, motivated employees; • Our ability to comply with applicable legal requirements throughout the world; • Our ability to utilize reliable outsource partners for certain critical functions at prices that keep us competitive and • Our ability to successfully manage litigation, including enforcing our rights, protecting our interests and defending claims made against us. These factors are difficult to manage, satisfy and influence. Although we have recorded profits in the past six quarters, 2007 is the first year that we have been able to operate profitably on an annual basis since 2002 and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to sustain profits in the future. Zip Products Zip products have accounted for the majority of our product operating income since 1997 and provided our only meaningful source of product operating income until 2007. However, Zip product sales have declined consistently and significantly on a year-over-year basis since peaking in 1999. These declines are expected to continue through the end of the Zip product life cycle, due to the general obsolescence of Zip technology and the emergence of alternate storage solutions. Given this continuing decline, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitable operations on our Zip business in the future. Further, we will not be profitable unless we consistently generate significant product operating income from products other than Zip products. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. 16 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES RISK FACTORS (Continued) REV Products Future results of our REV products entail numerous risks relating to factors such as: • Our ability to launch the next generation of REV products on time; • Any lack of market acceptance of the next generation of REV products; • Failure to maintain acceptable arrangements with product suppliers, particularly in light of lower than anticipated volumes; • Manufacturing, technical, supplier, or quality-related delays, issues or concerns, including the loss of any key supplier or failure of any key supplier to deliver high quality products on time; • Intense competition; • The inability of our OEM partner in the broadcast industry, Thomson N.A., to achieve significant volumes of its recently launched products utilizing REV drives and disks; • Potential declines in demand for REV 35GB and 70GB products because of the launch of next generation REV products and • Risks that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against REV products. Consumer Storage Solutions Products Virtually all of our CSS products are commodity-type products, which are similar to many other widely available products. These competing products are marketed by both name-brand manufacturers and generic competitors; and we source hard drives from the same companies we compete with. Moreover, besides our trademarks, we own limited intellectual property relating to many of our CSS products. Consequently, this segment is characterized by intense competition, the frequent introduction of new products and upgrades for existing products, supply fluctuations and frequent end user price reductions, resulting in low gross margin percentages. In order to compete successfully, we must accurately forecast demand, closely monitor inventory levels, secure quality products, continuously drive down costs, meet aggressive product price and performance targets, create market demand for our brand and hold sufficient, but not excess, inventory. In light of these challenges, we can offer no assurance that we will achieve sustainable profitability on this segment. Additionally, in order to reduce the product costs of our HDD drives, we have changed our supply chain. We now have several low cost, manufacturers in Asia that assemble our drives. The raw drives are consigned to these vendors which increases our cash conversion cycle on these products. Due to a combination of the lower margins, the longer cash conversion cycle, and the growth of this business segment, there can be cash flow pressures. Further, in their own effort to seek the highest margin possible, large retail customers seek levels of promotional funds or other consideration and benefits that may not be consistent with our profit goals; lower retail sales or higher selling expenses therefore can result from positions taken by large retailers. Development, Introduction and Other Expansion of New Products and Services and New Revenue Streams We believe that we must continually either develop or acquire the right to profitably sell new products or services in order to remain viable in the data storage industry. However, our efforts in this regard have frequently been unsuccessful. Since 1999, we have developed and/or acquired the right to market a variety of new products, but many initiatives have not delivered consistent, material profits. 17 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES RISK FACTORS (Continued) We are spending significant resources attempting to develop new products. We may spend additional resources attempting to acquire the rights to new technologies or services, to fund development of such technologies or to otherwise differentiate existing products. We can provide no assurance that any of these expenditures will yield profits. Product Manufacturing and Procurement We have fully outsourced all manufacturing and have no direct control over the manufacturing processes of our products. This lack of control may increase quality or reliability risks and could limit our ability to quickly increase or decrease production rates. Outsourced Distribution and Logistics Because we have outsourced our distribution and logistics operations, we rely upon the computer systems, business processes and internal controls of our distribution and logistics services provider. These systems may develop communication, compatibility, control or reliability problems. In addition, we face risks of operational interruptions, missed or delayed shipments, unexpected price increases and inventory management risks. We have periodically experienced operational disruptions and in our 2004 Form 10-K, we reported a material weakness (subsequently remediated) in internal control over financial reporting due to some of these factors. Company Operations, Component Supplies and Inventory It is difficult to negotiate or maintain favorable pricing, supply, business or credit terms with our vendors, suppliers and service providers. We anticipate continued challenges in this area for the foreseeable future. Zip and REV products, as well as certain key components, are each manufactured by single manufacturers, which creates risks of disruption in the event of labor, quality or other problems at Zip or REV product manufacturers or certain key component manufacturers. In addition, product manufacturing costs may increase if we fail to achieve anticipated volumes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage these risks. As suppliers upgrade their components, they regularly “end of life” older components. As we become aware of an end of life situation, we attempt to make purchases to cover all future requirements or find a suitable substitute component. In such cases, we may not be successful in obtaining sufficient numbers of components, in finding a substitute or could purchase excess components. In summary, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to obtain a sufficient (but not excess) supply of components on a timely and cost effective basis. Our failure to do so would lead to a material adverse impact on our business. Purchase orders for components or finished products are based on forecasted future sales requirements. It is difficult to estimate future product demand for new products or products with declining sales. Further, our customers frequently adjust their ordering patterns in response to factors such as inventory on hand, new product introductions, seasonal fluctuations, promotions, market demand and other factors. As a result, our estimates, when inaccurate, can result in excess or insufficient purchase commitments. We have recorded significant charges in the past relating to excess purchase commitments and inventory reserves and these charges can adversely affect our financial results. We may be required to take similar charges attributable to forecasting inaccuracies in the future. 18 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES RISK FACTORS (Continued) ExcelStor Acquisition Consummation of our proposed acquisition of ExcelStor will cause numerous and substantial changes at Iomega. The transaction will introduce management and various personnel to new challenges, including the need to integrate a foreign company into our public company processes and controls in order to meet the requirements of the SEC and Sarbanes-Oxley Act; the need for us to simultaneously launch additional sales of products obtained through this proposed acquisition and its related sister companies; and the need to overcome language and cultural differences between the employee populations at Iomega and ExcelStor. The two combining companies will be subject to various new or heightened duties that may apply as a result of the acquisition, including duties associated with ensuring that the new Chinese operations comply with those American laws that apply worldwide and duties of Iomega to comply with any applicable Chinese laws; numerous communications will have to be translated and communicated properly within the combined company so that policies and directives, or concerns and input, as well as recommendations and daily communications are all properly understood by teams of personnel speaking different languages, and IT systems will need to successfully communicate certain information (although the companies are expected to continue to maintain separate IT systems); various managers will have increased burdens as a result of their responsibilities spanning a larger international enterprise; and third parties may be more prone to raising legal claims against a bigger, higher profile target than if Iomega was a smaller company. These efforts to integrate the companies and successfully address all of these needs will involve execution and market risk all while Iomega faces intense competition; and there is no assurance that we will be successful in this new proposed endeavor. Additionally, there is no guarantee that the proposed acquisition will receive all of the required approvals necessary to allow the transaction to be completed. Further all potential strategic transactions involve a heightened risk of legal claims, disruption and unexpected costs. Restructuring, Other Cost Reduction Activities and Retention of Key Personnel We have initiated various restructuring actions in the past in conjunction with our desire to reduce costs and operate efficiently. Other restructuring actions may be necessary in the future. Our ability to retain key employees or our success at maintaining institutional knowledge and consistent application of controls may be adversely affected because of past or any future restructuring activities, if any occur. Internal Control Reporting Compliance Efforts Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in each Annual Report a report on internal control over financial reporting. We are always at risk that any future failure of our own internal controls, the controls of acquired companies or the internal control at any of our outsourcing partners could result in reported material weaknesses. Responsibility for the finance function for Europe has changed hands internally over the past year. We have many employees performing tasks they have not performed in the past, which could result in errors or lost knowledge. In addition, our proposed acquisition of ExcelStor Group could require development of new process controls, and will require the documentation and testing of their process controls. Although we continue to invest resources in Section 404 compliance activities, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts to avoid reporting a future material weakness of internal control. Any such reported material weakness could have a material impact on our market capitalization, financial statements or have other adverse consequences. 19 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES RISK FACTORS (Continued) Reporting of Channel Inventory and Product Sales by Channel Partners We defer recognition of sales on estimated excess inventory in the distribution, retail and DMR channels. For this purpose, excess inventory is the amount of inventory that exceeds the channel’s four-week requirement as estimated by management. We rely on reports from our distributors and resellers to make these estimations. Although we have processes and systems checks in place to help reasonably ensure the accuracy of the reports, we cannot guarantee that the third-party data, as reported, will be accurate. Concentration of Credit Risk We market our products primarily through computer product distributors, retailers and OEMs. Accordingly, as we grant credit to our customers, a substantial portion of outstanding trade receivables are due from computer product distributors, certain large retailers and OEMs. If any one or a group of these customers’ receivable balances should be deemed uncollectible, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As we sell fewer products through the U.S. retail channel, we have less leverage with such retailers and increased exposure to payment delays or other collection issues with retailers. Additionally, the retail market is very competitive and consolidating and, as a result, major retailers could reorganize, consolidate, go out of business, and any such events could impact our External HDD sales. Intellectual Property Risks Patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property infringement claims have been and may continue to be asserted against us at any time. Such claims could have a number of adverse consequences, including an injunction against current or future product shipments, liability for damages and/or royalties, indemnification obligations and significant legal expenses. We try to protect our intellectual property rights through a variety of means, including seeking and obtaining patents and trademarks, and through license, nondisclosure and other agreements. Any failure or inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could have material adverse consequences. Legal Risks We have entered into multiple agreements, including license, service, supply, resale, distribution, development and other agreements in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. We are also subject to an array of regulatory and compliance requirements, including foreign legal requirements and a complex worldwide tax structure. In addition, we employ people throughout the world. Although we attempt to fulfill all of our obligations, enforce all of our rights and comply with all applicable laws and regulations under these agreements and relationships, our organization is complex and errors may occur. We have been sued and may be sued, under numerous legal theories, including breach of contract, tort, product liability, intellectual property infringement and other theories. Such litigation, regardless of the outcome, may have an adverse effect upon our profitability or public perception. 20 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES RISK FACTORS (Continued) Other Risk Factors We are subject to risks associated with general economic conditions and consumer confidence. Any disruption in consumer confidence or general economic conditions including those caused by acts of war, natural disasters affecting key suppliers or key facilities, terrorism or other factors could affect our operating results. Significant portions of our sales are generated in Europe and, to a lesser extent, Asia. We invoice the majority of our European customers in Euros and invoice our North American, Asia and South American customers in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar that are not sufficiently hedged by international customers invoiced in U.S. dollars could result in lower sales and have an adverse effect on future operating results. 21 Table of Contents IOMEGA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS: None. 