Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to the following risk factors: Unigene’s operations for 2006 and future years are highly dependent on the successful marketing of Fortical. Fortical was approved by the FDA on August 12, 2005 and launched by USL on August 16, 2005. Any factors that adversely impact the marketing of Fortical, including, but not limited to, competition, acceptance in the marketplace, or delays related to production and distribution or regulatory issues, will have a severe negative impact on our cash flow and operating results. We have significant historical losses and may continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred annual losses since our inception. As a result, at December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $108,000,000. Our gross revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $14,276,000, $8,400,000 and $6,024,000, respectively. However, our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. Revenue for 2005 consists primarily of revenue generated from our agreement with USL for Fortical including sales, royalties and a milestone payment. Revenue for 2004 consisted primarily of milestone revenue from GSK and calcitonin sales to Novartis. Revenue for 2003 consisted primarily of milestone payments from USL and GSK and PTH sales to GSK. As of December 31, 2005, we had three material revenue generating license agreements. Our injectable calcitonin product has been approved for commercial sale in a number of European countries, but we do not anticipate that these sales will produce significant revenues. We believe that to achieve profitability we will require at least the successful commercialization of our nasal calcitonin or oral PTH products or another oral peptide product in the U.S. and abroad. For 2005, we had operating income of $594,000 and during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 we incurred losses from operations of $5,344,000 and $6,224,000, respectively. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $496,000, $5,941,000 and $7,398,000, respectively. We might never be profitable. Our independent registered public accounting firm has added an explanatory paragraph to their audit opinion issued in connection with the financial statements for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 relative to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to obtain additional funding will determine our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We may require additional funding to sustain our operations and our ability to secure additional financing is uncertain. We may be unable to raise on acceptable terms, if at all, the substantial capital resources necessary to conduct our operations. If we are unable to raise the required capital, we may be forced to limit some or all of our research and development programs and related operations, curtail commercialization of our product candidates and, ultimately, cease operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • USL’s ability to successfully market Fortical; • the achievement of milestones in our Novartis and GSK agreements; • continued scientific progress in our discovery and research programs; • progress with preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the magnitude and scope of our discovery, research and development programs; • our ability to maintain existing, and establish additional, corporate partnerships and licensing arrangements; • our partners’ ability to sell and market our products; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the time and costs involved in expanding and maintaining our production facility; 9 Table of Contents • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; • the potential need to develop, acquire or license new technologies and products; and • the continued ability to manage demand loans from Jay Levy. We had cash flow deficits from operations of $1,500,000, $1,220,000 and $4,632,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We believe that we will generate financial resources to apply toward funding our operations through sales of Fortical to USL, royalties from USL sales of Fortical, the achievement of milestones in the Novartis and GSK agreements and/or through the sale of PTH to GSK. However, if USL is unable to successfully market Fortical or if we are unable to achieve the milestones and sales on a timely basis, we would need additional funds to continue our operations. We may need additional funds from financing or other sources to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. We sold 2,123,142 shares of our common stock and a five-year common stock purchase warrant to purchase up to 1,061,571 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.77 per share to Fusion for gross proceeds of $3,000,000 in April 2005. The sale of our common stock by Fusion could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our stock price declines, we may be unable to raise additional funds through the sale of our common stock to others. We believe that satisfying our long-term capital requirements will require at least the successful commercialization of one of our peptide products. However, our products may never become commercially successful. Some of our officers have made loans to us, some of which are in default, and they are entitled to remedies available to a secured creditor, which gives them a priority over the holders of our common stock. Some of our officers have made loans to us under promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $10,105,000, of which a total of $4,395,000, plus $5,067,000 in accrued interest, is in default as of December 31, 2005. Our obligations under these promissory notes are secured by, among other things, mortgages upon all of the real property we own and pledges of substantially all of our assets. If we become insolvent or are liquidated, or if payment under the default promissory notes is accelerated, the holders of the promissory notes will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law which would entitle them to full repayment before any funds could be paid to our shareholders. Most of our products are in early stages of development and we may not be successful in our efforts to develop a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide product that will produce revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. Our success depends on our ability to commercialize a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide product that will produce revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. Except for our Fortical product, most of our products are in early stages of development and we may never develop a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide product that makes us profitable. We have a contractual joint venture with SPG which may never generate significant profits. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to complete development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, and commercialize successfully those product candidates or our technologies. We believe that the development of more desirable formulations is essential to expand consumer acceptance of peptide pharmaceutical products. However, we may not be successful in our development efforts, or other companies may develop such products, or superior products, before we do. We may not be successful in our efforts to gain regulatory approval for our products other than Fortical and, if approved, the approval may not be on a timely basis. Even if we are successful in our development efforts, we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approval for our products other than Fortical. The FDA must approve the commercial manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in the United States. Similar regulatory approvals are required for the sale of pharmaceutical products outside of the 10 Table of Contents United States. We entered into a contractual joint venture agreement in China with SPG. The contractual joint venture may not be able to obtain regulatory approval in China. Although we have received regulatory approval in the European Union and Switzerland for the sale of our injectable calcitonin product, none of our products other than Fortical has been approved for sale in the United States, and our other products may never receive the approvals necessary for commercialization. We must conduct further human testing on certain of our products before they can be approved for commercial sale. Any delay in receiving, or failure to receive, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to generate product revenues. We may not be successful in efficiently developing, manufacturing or commercializing our products. Because of our limited clinical, manufacturing and regulatory experience and our lack of a marketing organization, we are likely to rely on licensees or other parties to perform one or more tasks for the commercialization of pharmaceutical products, such as USL to market and distribute Fortical in the U.S. If any of our products are approved for commercial sale, the product will need to be manufactured in commercial quantities at a reasonable cost in order for it to be a successful product that will generate profits. We may incur additional costs and delays while working with these parties, and these parties may ultimately be unsuccessful in the commercialization of a product. We have made a substantial investment in our production facility which we may need to upgrade or expand in order to manufacture some of our products in commercial quantities required by our corporate partners. We have constructed and are operating a facility intended to produce Fortical, calcitonin, PTH and other peptides. This facility has been inspected by European regulatory authorities who have determined that we were in compliance with the then-current European good manufacturing practice guidelines for the manufacture of calcitonin for human use, and we have also passed a pre-approval inspection conducted by the FDA for Fortical. The risks associated with this facility include the failure to achieve targeted production and profitability goals, the development by others of superior processes and products, and the absence of a market for products produced by the facility. We upgraded our manufacturing facility in order to expand our fill line for Fortical. However, the successful commercialization of any of our other products may require us to make additional expenditures to expand or upgrade our manufacturing operations. We may be unable to make these capital expenditures when required. Our success is dependent on our ability to establish and maintain commercial partnerships and currently we have only three significant license agreements. We do not currently have, nor do we expect to have in the near future, sufficient financial resources and personnel to develop and market our products on our own. Accordingly, we expect to continue to depend on large pharmaceutical companies for revenues from sales of products, research sponsorship and distribution of our products. The process of establishing partnerships is difficult and time-consuming. Our discussions with potential partners may not lead to the establishment of new partnerships on favorable terms, if at all. If we successfully establish new partnerships, the partnerships may never result in the successful development of our product candidates or the generation of significant revenue. Management of our relationships with these partners would require: • significant time and effort from our management team; • coordination of our research with the research priorities of our corporate partners; • effective allocation of our resources to multiple projects; and • an ability to attract and retain key management, scientific, production and other personnel. We may not be able to manage these relationships successfully. We currently have significant license agreements with Novartis worldwide for the production of calcitonin, with GSK worldwide for oral PTH and with USL in the United States for nasal calcitonin. We are pursuing additional opportunities to license or enter into distribution arrangements for products that utilize our oral and nasal delivery technologies and/or our manufacturing technology. However, we may not be successful in any of these efforts. In June 2000, we entered into a joint venture agreement with SPG for the manufacture and distribution of injectable and nasal calcitonin products in China and possibly, with our approval, other selected Asian markets, for the treatment of 11 Table of Contents osteoporosis. The contractual joint venture began operations in March 2002; sales of its injectable calcitonin product began in April 2002, using SPG’s existing license. Sales are being used by the contractual joint venture to offset startup costs. Therefore, the contractual joint venture’s initial net income or loss will be immaterial to our overall results of operations. We have entered into distribution agreements for our injectable formulation of calcitonin in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Israel. We also have entered into a license agreement in Greece for nasal calcitonin. To date, we have not received material revenues from these agreements and may never do so. Because we are a biopharmaceutical company, our operations are subject to extensive government regulation. Our laboratory research, development and production activities, as well as those of our collaborators and licensees, are subject to significant regulation by federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities. In addition to obtaining FDA approval and other regulatory approvals for our products, we must obtain approvals for our manufacturing facility to produce calcitonin, PTH and other peptides for human use. The regulatory approval process for a pharmaceutical product requires substantial resources and may take many years. In addition, in China, where we have signed a joint venture agreement, we are required to receive government approval in order to obtain a business license and obtain our official status as a Chinese joint venture. Our inability to obtain approvals or delays in obtaining approvals would adversely affect our ability to continue our development program, to manufacture and sell our products, and to receive revenue from milestone payments, product sales or royalties. The FDA or other regulatory agencies may audit our production facility at any time to ensure compliance with cGMP guidelines. These guidelines require that we conduct our production operation in strict compliance with our established rules for manufacturing and quality controls. Any of these agencies can suspend production operations and product sales if they find significant or repeated deviations from these guidelines. A suspension would likely cause us to incur additional costs or delays in product development. Fortical currently faces competition from large pharmaceutical companies and if our other products receive regulatory approval, these other products would also face competition from large pharmaceutical companies with superior resources. We are engaged in developing pharmaceutical products, which is a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. To date, we have concentrated our efforts primarily on products to treat one indication — osteoporosis. Like the market for any pharmaceutical product, the market for treating osteoporosis has the potential for rapid, unpredictable and significant technological change. Competition is intense from specialized biotechnology companies, major pharmaceutical and chemical companies and universities and research institutions. There could also be future competition from products that are generic to our product or the innovator product. Fortical currently faces competition from large pharmaceutical companies who produce osteoporosis products and if any of our other products receive regulatory approval, these other products would also face competition from large pharmaceutical companies with substantially greater financial resources, research and development staffs and facilities, and regulatory experience than we have. Major companies in the field of osteoporosis treatment include Novartis, Merck, Eli Lilly, Sanofi-Aventis and Procter & Gamble. We believe that we should be able to compete with these companies due both to our partnerships with GSK and USL and to our patented technologies. However, one of these potential competitors could, at any time, develop products or a manufacturing process that could render our technology or products noncompetitive or obsolete. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We filed applications for U.S. patents relating to proprietary peptide manufacturing technology and oral and nasal formulations that we have invented in the course of our research. Our most important U.S. manufacturing and delivery patents expire from 2016 to 2021. To date, nine U.S. patents have been issued and other applications are pending. We have also made patent application filings in selected foreign countries and forty-six foreign patents have been issued with other applications pending. We face the risk that any of our pending applications will not be issued as patents. In addition, our patents may be found to be invalid or unenforceable. Our business also is subject to the risk that our issued patents will not provide us with significant competitive advantages if, for example, a competitor were to independently develop or obtain similar or superior technologies. To the extent we are unable to protect our patents and patent applications, our investment in those technologies may not yield the benefits that we expect. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our inventions. Our policy is to include confidentiality obligations in all research contracts, joint development agreements and consulting relationships that provide access to our trade secrets and other 12 Table of Contents know-how. However, parties with confidentiality obligations could breach their agreements causing us harm. If a secrecy obligation were to be breached, we may not have the financial resources necessary for a legal challenge. If licensees, consultants or other third parties use technological information independently developed by them or by others in the development of our products, disputes may arise from the use of this information and as to the ownership rights to products developed using this information. These disputes may not be resolved in our favor and could materially impact our business. Our technology or products could give rise to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims from human testing, manufacturing and sale of pharmaceutical products. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, can result in product liability claims even if our products are not actually at fault for causing an injury. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to cause, adverse side effects or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug is actually manufactured and sold. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity, time, and expense involved in defending such a claim may interfere with our business. We may not have sufficient resources to defend against or satisfy these claims. We currently maintain $10,000,000 in product liability insurance coverage. However, this amount may not be sufficient to protect us against losses or may be unavailable in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. We have financial obligations under our current and former joint venture agreements in China. An NDA for injectable and nasal calcitonin products was filed in China in the third quarter of 2003. The timing of the approval of our NDA in China is uncertain. Under the terms of the joint venture agreement in China with SPG, we are obligated to contribute up to $405,000 in cash after approval of its Chinese NDA and up to an additional $495,000 in cash within two years thereafter. However, these amounts may be reduced or offset by our share of the entity’s profits, if any. As of December 31, 2005, we contributed $37,500 to the existing contractual joint venture. In addition, we are obligated to pay to the Qingdao General Pharmaceutical Company, our former joint venture partner in China, an aggregate of $350,000 in monthly installment payments of $5,000 in order to terminate this joint venture, of which $15,000 is remaining as of December 31, 2005. We may be unable to retain key employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical, production and managerial personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our business. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical, production and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would harm our research and development programs and our business. Dr. Warren Levy and Dr. Ronald Levy have been our principal executive officers since our inception. We rely on them for their leadership and business direction. Each of them has entered into an agreement with us providing that he shall not engage in any other employment or business for the period of his employment with us and will not engage in a competing business for one year following termination. However, each of them is only bound by his respective employment agreement to provide services for a one-year term. The loss of the services of either of these individuals could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our scientific and business objectives. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, highly unstable. Factors, including our announcement of technological improvements or announcements by other companies, regulatory matters, research and development activities, new or existing products or procedures, signing or termination of licensing agreements, concerns about our financial condition, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, and public concern over the safety of activities or products have had a significant impact on the market price of our stock. We expect such factors to continue to impact our market price for the foreseeable future. In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of Unigene common stock by us or our stockholders, including sales by Fusion and by the exercise and subsequent sale of Unigene common stock by the holders of outstanding and future warrants and options, could have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. 13 Table of Contents Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under SEC rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations concerning the market value of the stock. Stockholders also may experience greater difficulties in attempting to sell the stock than if it was listed on a stock exchange or quoted on the Nasdaq National Market or the Nasdaq Small-Cap Market. Because Unigene common stock is not traded on a stock exchange or on Nasdaq, and the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” These include the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customer concerning the risks of penny stocks. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of the shares, which in turn may affect the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the stock. The sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Fusion could cause the price of our common stock to decline. The 2,123,142 shares of common stock sold to Fusion in April 2005 are freely tradeable. All other shares previously sold under the prior common stock purchase agreements with Fusion are also freely tradable. Fusion may sell none, some, or all of the shares of common stock purchased from us at any time. The sale of these shares could cause the price of our common stock to decline. The exercise of warrants and options, as well as other issuances of shares, will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2005, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 1,331,571 shares of our common stock, all but 20,000 of which are currently exercisable, at an average exercise price of $1.61 per share. There are also outstanding stock options to purchase an aggregate of 3,647,315 shares of common stock, at an average exercise price of $1.01, of which 2,874,262 are currently exercisable. The exercise of warrants or options at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with collaborations or licensing agreements or in connection with other financing efforts. If provisions in our stockholder rights plan or Delaware law delay or prevent a change in control of Unigene, we may be unable to consummate a transaction that our stockholders consider favorable. On December 20, 2002, we adopted a stockholder rights plan. This stockholder rights plan increases the costs that would be incurred by an unwanted third party acquirer if such party owns or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for more than 15% of our outstanding common stock. The plan is designed to assure our board of directors a full opportunity to review any proposal to acquire us. However, the plan could prolong the take-over process and, arguably, deter a potential bidder. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders, and a takeover bid otherwise favored by a majority of our stockholders might be rejected by our board of directors. In addition, specific sections of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 