Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to the following risks: We may require additional cash to sustain our operations and our ability to secure additional cash is uncertain. We had cash flow deficits from operations of $1,669,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, $11,291,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $8,575,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. We believe that, in the near-term, we will generate cash to apply toward funding a portion of our operations through sales of Fortical to USL and from royalties from USL sales of Fortical, as well as our anticipated receipt of a $4,000,000 milestone payment from GSK upon completion of Phase II patient enrollment. These funds may not be adequate to fully support our operations. Therefore, we may need additional sources of cash in order to maintain all of our future operations. Based upon our current level of revenue and expenses, we believe our current cash should be sufficient to support our current operations into the second half of 2012. We may be unable to raise on acceptable terms, if at all, the substantial capital resources necessary to conduct our operations. If we are unable to raise the required capital, we may be forced to limit some or all of our research and development programs and related operations, curtail development of our product candidates and, ultimately, cease operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the level of Fortical sales, particularly in light of new and potential competition; • our ability to successfully defend our Fortical patent against Apotex’s ANDA; • the generation of revenue from our Tarsa, Novartis and GSK agreements; • continued scientific progress in our discovery and research programs; • progress with preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the magnitude and scope of our discovery, research and development programs; • our ability to maintain existing, and establish additional, corporate partnerships and licensing arrangements; • our partners’ ability to sell and market our products or their products utilizing our technologies; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the time and costs involved in maintaining our production facility; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims including our current litigation regarding Apotex’s ANDA; and • the pharmaceutical industry’s need to acquire or license new technologies and products. There are numerous default provisions under our financing agreement with Victory Park. Under our amended and restated March 2010 financing agreement with Victory Park, so long as our outstanding note balance is at least $5,000,000, we must maintain a minimum cash balance equal to at least $2,500,000 and our cash flow (as defined in the agreement) must be at least $2,000,000 in any fiscal quarter or $7,000,000 in any three consecutive quarters. These default provisions were temporarily waived under a forbearance agreement executed in December 2010. The forbearance period began December 10, 2010 and will end no later than June 30, 2012. The financing agreement specifies certain events of default including, without limitation: failure to pay principal or interest; filing for bankruptcy; breach of covenants, representations or warranties; the occurrence of a mate rial adverse effect (as defined in the agreement); a change in control (as defined in the agreement); the failure of any registration statement required to be filed to be declared effective by the SEC, and maintained effective pursuant to the terms of our registration rights agreement with Victory Park; and any material decline or depreciation in the value or market price of the collateral. We are subject to certain cash damages, as set forth in the convertible notes, in the case of a failure to timely convert the notes and a failure to timely convert is also an event of default, subject to additional remedies. Upon any default, among other remedies, both principal and interest would be accelerated and additional charges would apply. There is no assurance that, after the forbearance period ends, we will be able to maintain a minimum cash balance of $2,500,000, or maintain an adequate cash flow, in order to avoid default. In addition, there is no assurance that the notes will be converted into common stock, in which case, we may not have sufficient cash from operations or from new financings to repay the Victory Park debt when it comes due in 2013, or that new financings will be available on favorable terms, if at all. The conversion of the Victory Park notes will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price and could lead to a change in control. In March 2010, we issued to Victory Park $33,000,000 in convertible notes, which come due in 2013. As of March 17, 2011, these notes will be convertible into shares of Common Stock at the holder’s option. The initial conversion rate, which is subject to adjustment as set forth in the notes, is calculated by dividing the sum of the principal to be converted, plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, by $0.70 per share. If we subsequently make certain issuances of Common Stock or Common Stock equivalents at an effective purchase price less than the then-applicable conversion price, the conversion price of the notes will be reduced to such lower price. Assuming that the convertible notes are convertible in full on March 17, 2011 (with conversion of the original principal amount plus interest thereon into the conversion shares), then, together with the shares and other securities owned by them, Victory Park and its affiliates would beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 41% of our outstanding Common Stock (as diluted by outstanding options) as of that date. 9 of 59 We are required to make payments under the Levy loans, most of which are payable in June 2013. We owe an aggregate original principal amount of $14,737,518 on notes payable to the Estate of Jean Levy and the Jaynjean Levy Family Limited Partnership. As of December 31, 2010, principal and interest on these notes aggregated $19,670,120. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations or from other sources in order to make the payments when due which are required under these notes. Our strategic realignment might not be successful. In September 2010, we announced a realignment of our business and the creation of two new highly focused strategic business units. Our new strategic business units may not be successful or effectively implemented. Implementation of our new business strategy will require the intense involvement of our executive management team and may divert their efforts away from other important projects. Also, we may be unable to enter into mutually acceptable agreements with third party partners to use our peptide drug delivery platform and/or manufacturing capabilities. If we are unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations for future years are highly dependent on the successful marketing and sales of Fortical and could be further impacted by generic or other competition. Fortical is our only product approved by the FDA. Any factors that adversely impact the marketing of Fortical including, but not limited to, competition, including generic competition and/or product substitutions, acceptance in the marketplace, or delays related to production and distribution or regulatory issues, will have a negative impact on our cash flow and operating results. For 2010, compared to 2009, Fortical sales decreased 12% while Fortical royalties decreased 40%. In December 2008, Apotex and Sandoz launched nasal calcitonin products which are generic to Novartis’ nasal calcitonin product, but not to Fortical. In June 2009, Par also launched a product generic to Novartis’ nasal calcitonin product. Certain providers have substituted these p roducts for Fortical, causing Fortical sales and royalties to decrease. Further decreases in Fortical sales or royalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Apotex has a pending ANDA for a nasal calcitonin product that we claim infringes our Fortical patent. We have sued Apotex for infringement of our Fortical Patent and Apotex has been enjoined from conducting any activities which would infringe the patent. Apotex has appealed that decision and if we do not prevail in this litigation, then Apotex could be in a position to market its nasal calcitonin product if and when its pending ANDA receives FDA approval. We have significant historical losses and may continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred annual losses since our inception. As a result, at December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $171,000,000. Our gross revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $11,340,000, $12,792,000 and $19,229,000, respectively. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. Revenue for 2010, 2009 and 2008 consisted primarily of Fortical sales and royalties. As of December 31, 2010, we had four material revenue generating license agreements. We believe that to achieve profitability we will require at least the successful commercialization of one or more of our licensees’ oral or nasal calcitonin products, our oral PTH product, our obesity program or another peptide product or biotechnology in the U.S. and/or abroad. However, our products or technologies may never become commercially successful. For 2010, 2009 and 2008, we had losses from operations of $10,324,000, $12,380,000 and $4,950,000, respectively. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $27,868,000, $13,380,000 and $6,078,000, respectively. We might never be profitable. Most of our products are in early stages of development and we and our licensees may not be successful in efforts to develop a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide product that will produce revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. Our success depends on our and our licensees’ ability to commercialize a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide product that will produce revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. Except for Fortical, most of our products are in early stages of development and we and our licensees may never develop a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide product that makes us profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on a number of factors, including our and our licensees’ ability to complete development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for additional product candidates and successfully commercialize those product candidates or our technologies. We believe that the development of more desirable formulations is essential to expand consumer acceptance of peptide pharmaceutical products. However, we may not be successful in our development efforts, or other companies may develop such products, or superior products, before we do. We may not be successful in our efforts to gain regulatory approval for our products other than Fortical and, if approved, the approval may not be on a timely basis. Even if we or our licensees are successful in our development efforts, we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approval for our products other than Fortical. The FDA must approve the commercial manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in the United States. Similar regulatory approvals are required for the sale of pharmaceutical products outside of the United States. None of our products other than Fortical has been approved for sale in the United States, and our other products may never receive the approvals necessary for commercialization. We must conduct further human testing on certain of our products before they can be approved for commercial sale and such testing requires the investment of significant resources. Any delay in receiving, or failure to receive, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to generate product revenues. We may not be successful in efficiently developing, manufacturing or commercializing our products. Because of our limited financial resources and our lack of a marketing organization, we are likely to rely on licensees or other parties to perform one or more tasks for the commercialization of our pharmaceutical products, such as USL to market and distribute Fortical in the U.S. If any of our products are approved for commercial sale, the product will need to be manufactured in commercial quantities at a reasonable cost in order for it to be a successful product that can generate profits. We may incur additional costs and delays while working with these parties, and these parties may ultimately be unsuccessful in the commercialization of a product. 10 of 59 Our success is dependent on our ability to establish and maintain commercial partnerships and currently we have only four significant license agreements. We do not currently have, nor do we expect to have in the near future, sufficient financial resources and personnel to develop and market products on our own. Accordingly, we expect to continue to depend on pharmaceutical companies for revenues from sales of products, research sponsorship and distribution of our products. The process of establishing partnerships is difficult and time-consuming. Our discussions with potential partners may not lead to the establishment of new partnerships on favorable terms, if at all. If we successfully establish new partnerships, the partnerships may never result in the successful development of our product candidates or the generation of significant revenue. Management of our relationships with these partners would require: • significant time and effort from our management team; • coordination of our research with the research priorities of our corporate partners; • effective allocation of our resources to multiple projects; and • an ability to attract and retain key management, scientific, production and other personnel. We may not be able to manage these relationships successfully. We currently have significant license agreements with Novartis worldwide for the production of calcitonin, with GSK worldwide for oral PTH, with USL in the United States for nasal calcitonin and with Tarsa worldwide (except for China) for oral calcitonin. We are pursuing additional opportunities to license or enter into distribution arrangements for products that utilize our oral and nasal delivery technologies and/or our manufacturing technology, as well as our other technologies. However, we may not be successful in any of these efforts. Because we are a biopharmaceutical company, our operations are subject to extensive government regulation. Our laboratory research, development and production activities, as well as those of our collaborators and licensees, are subject to significant regulation by federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities. In addition to obtaining FDA approval and other regulatory approvals for our products, we must maintain approvals for our manufacturing facility to produce calcitonin, PTH and other peptides for human use. The regulatory approval process for a pharmaceutical product requires substantial resources and may take many years. Our inability to obtain approvals or delays in obtaining approvals would adversely affect our ability to continue our development program, to manufacture and sell our products, and to receive revenue from milestone payments, product sales or royalties. The FDA and other regulatory agencies may audit our production facility at any time to ensure compliance with cGMP guidelines. These guidelines require that we conduct our production operation in strict compliance with our established rules for manufacturing and quality controls. Any of these agencies can suspend production operations and product sales if they find significant or repeated deviations from these guidelines. A suspension would likely cause us to incur additional costs or delays in product development. In addition, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. It is illegal to pay, offer to pay or authorize the payme nt of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. Our present and future business is, and will continue to be, subject to various other laws, rules and/or regulations applicable to us as a result of our international business. Fortical currently faces competition from large pharmaceutical companies and, if our other products receive regulatory approval, these other products would also face competition from large pharmaceutical companies with superior resources. We are engaged in developing pharmaceutical products, which is a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. To date, we have concentrated our efforts primarily on products to treat one indication — osteoporosis. Like the market for any pharmaceutical product, the market for treating osteoporosis has the potential for rapid, unpredictable and significant technological change. Competition is intense from specialized biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, major pharmaceutical and chemical companies and universities and research institutions. In December 2008, Apotex and Sandoz launched nasal calcitonin products which are generic to Novartis’ nasal calcitonin product, but not to Fortical. In June 2009, Par also launched a product generic to Novartis’ nasal calcitonin pr oduct. Certain providers have substituted these products for Fortical, causing Fortical sales and royalties to decrease. There could also be future competition from products that are generic to Fortical, including Apotex’s product that is the subject of our ANDA litigation. Fortical also faces competition from large pharmaceutical companies that produce other osteoporosis products and, if any of our other products receive regulatory approval, these other products likely would also face competition from large pharmaceutical companies with substantially greater financial resources, research and development staffs and facilities, and regulatory experience than we have. Major companies in the field of osteoporosis treatment include Novartis, Merck, Eli Lilly and Sanofi-Aventis. One or more of these potential competitors could, at any time, develop products or a manufacturing process that could render our technology or products noncompetitive or obsolete. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We filed applications for U.S. patents relating to proprietary peptide manufacturing technology and oral and nasal formulations that we have invented in the course of our research. Our most important U.S. manufacturing and delivery patents expire from 2017 to 2025 and we have applications pending that could extend that protection. To date, fifteen U.S. patents have issued and other applications are pending. We have also made patent application filings in selected foreign countries and fifty-eight foreign patents have issued with other applications pending. We face the risk that any of our pending applications will not be issued as patents. In addition, our patents may be found to be invalid or unenforceable, including in the pending ANDA litigation with Apotex. Our business also is su bject to the risk that our issued patents will not provide us with significant competitive advantages if, for example, a competitor were to independently develop or obtain similar or superior technologies. To the extent we are unable to protect our patents and patent applications, our investment in those technologies may not yield the benefits that we expect. 11 of 59 We also rely on trade secrets to protect our inventions. Our policy is to include confidentiality obligations in all research contracts, joint development agreements and consulting relationships that provide access to our trade secrets and other know-how. However, parties with confidentiality obligations could breach their agreements causing us harm. If a secrecy obligation were to be breached, we may not have the financial resources necessary for a legal challenge. If licensees, consultants or other third parties use technological information independently developed by them or by others in the development of our products, disputes may arise from the use of this information and as to the ownership rights to products developed using this information. These disputes may not be resolved in our favor and could materially impact our business. Our technology or products could give rise to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims from human testing, manufacturing and sale of pharmaceutical products. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, can result in product liability claims even if our products are not actually at fault for causing an injury. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to cause, adverse side effects or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug is actually manufactured and sold. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity, time and expense involved in defending such a claim may interfere with our business. We may not have suf ficient resources to defend against or satisfy these claims. We currently maintain $10,000,000 in product liability insurance coverage. However, this amount may not be sufficient to protect us against losses or may be unavailable in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. We may have financial obligations under the various agreements related to our joint venture in China. Although we do not believe that we are required to make any further contributions to our joint venture in China, there exists a misunderstanding as to whether we owe an additional $1.2 million for discretionary loans or equity contributions to the China Joint Venture and we have recorded a $1.2 million liability on our balance sheet. To date, we have paid our cash capital requirement of $1,050,000 and also completed our required technology transfer, thereby satisfying in full our registered capital contribution. In addition, we believe that the China Joint Venture owes us the amount of $678,000 as reimbursement for monies paid, and engineering services provided to, or on behalf of, the China Joint Venture by us. The reimbursement amount is subject to confirmation by our China Joint Ve nture partner and therefore has not been recorded as a receivable since its collectability is uncertain. While there are no assurances that the parties will reach agreement with respect to these disputed amounts, we believe that we will reach an amicable resolution of the amounts due and owing each party. If we are unsuccessful in reaching an amicable resolution, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The global financial crisis may adversely affect our business and financial results. The global credit crisis that began in 2007 was further exacerbated by events occurring in the financial markets in the fall of 2008, which continued in 2009 and 2010. These events have negatively impacted the ability of corporations to raise capital through equity financings or borrowings. The credit crisis may continue for the foreseeable future. Based upon our current level of revenue and expenses, we believe our current cash should be sufficient to support our current operations into the second half of 2010. At that time, we may not be able to raise capital on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may impact our ability to license our products and technologies to other companies and may cause consumers to defer purchases of prescription medicines, such as Fortical, in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our product could differ from our current expectations. We have a new Chief Executive Officer and other new executives. In June 2010 we hired a new Chief Executive Officer and recently hired certain other new members of our executive management team. Our new Chief Executive Officer or these other new executives may not be successfully integrated into our management team and may not effectively implement our business strategy. If the management team is unable to work together to successfully implement our business strategy, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may be unable to retain key employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical, production and managerial personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our business. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical, production and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our programs and our business. Compliance with regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting is complex and expensive. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. For example, on January 30, 2009, the SEC adopted rules requiring companies to provide their financial statements in interactive data format using the eXtensible Business Reporting Language, or XBRL. We will have to comply with these rules by June 15, 2011. More recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 was enacted into law. This legislation makes significant changes to corporate governance and executive compensation rules for public co mpanies across all industries. Our management team will need to invest significant management time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. 12 of 59 The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, highly unstable. Factors, including our announcement of technological improvements or announcements by other companies, regulatory matters, research and development activities, new or existing products or procedures, signing or termination of licensing agreements, concerns about competition, sales, our financial condition, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, and public concern over the safety of activities or products have had a significant impact on the market price of our stock. We expect such factors to continue to impact our market price for the foreseeable future. In addition, future sales of shares of Unigene common stock by us or ou r stockholders, and by the exercise and subsequent sale of Unigene common stock by the holders of outstanding and future warrants and options, could have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under SEC rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations concerning the market value of the stock. Stockholders also may experience greater difficulties in attempting to sell the stock than if it was listed on a stock exchange. Because Unigene common stock is not traded on a stock exchange and the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” These include the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customer concerning the risks of penny stocks. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of the shares, which in turn may affect the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the stock. In addition to the conversion of the Victory Park notes, the exercise of warrants and options, as well as other issuances of shares, will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 60,000 shares of our common stock, all but 20,000 of which are currently exercisable, at an average exercise price of $2.13 per share. There were also outstanding stock options to purchase an aggregate of 9,208,200 shares of common stock, at an average exercise price of $1.03, of which 3,659,949 are currently exercisable. If our stock price should increase above the exercise price of these derivative securities, then such exercise at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with collaborations or licensing agreements or in connection with other financing efforts, including our issuance of st ock upon the conversion of Victory Park's notes. If provisions in our stockholder rights plan or Delaware law delay or prevent a change in control of Unigene, we may be unable to consummate a transaction that our stockholders consider favorable. In December 2002, we adopted a stockholder rights plan. This stockholder rights plan increases the costs that would be incurred by an unwanted third party acquirer if such party owns or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for more than 15% of our outstanding common stock. The plan is designed to assure our board of directors a full opportunity to review any proposal to acquire us. However, the plan could prolong the take-over process and, arguably, deter a potential bidder. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders, and a takeover bid otherwise favored by a majority of our stockholders might be rejected by our board of directors. In addition, specific sections of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. font> Accounting for our revenues and costs involves significant estimates which, if actual results differ from estimates, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. As further described in “Summary of Critical Accounting Policies” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” accounting for our contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes in place to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and the results of our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 