Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully these risk factors together with all of the information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report in addition to our financial statements and the notes to our financial statements. This section includes forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. The following is a discussion of the risk factors that we believe are material to us at this time. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional matters that we are unaware of or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risk Related to Our Financial Condition The audit opinion on our financial statements contains a going concern modification. Our independent registered public accounting firm has added a paragraph to their opinion issued in connection with their audit of the financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 that emphasizes conditions that raise substantial doubt about Unigene’s ability to continue as a going concern. Unigene’s ability to generate additional revenue or obtain additional funding will determine its ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time. Unigene’s financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We expect to run out of cash by March 31, 2013 and require an immediate infusion of capital to sustain our operations; our ability to secure additional cash is uncertain. We had cash flow deficits from operations of $3,177,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012, $6,766,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $1,669,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $3,813,000 on December 31, 2012. Based upon management’s projections, we believe our current cash will only be sufficient to support our current operations through approximately March 31, 2013. Therefore, we need additional sources of cash in order to maintain all or a portion of our operations. We may be unable to raise, on acceptable terms, if at all, the substantial capital resources necessary to conduct our operations. If we are unable to raise the required capital, we may be forced to close our facilities and cease our operations. If we are unable to resolve outstanding creditor claims, we may have no other alternative than to seek protection under available bankruptcy laws. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, we will likely be required to limit some or all of our research and development programs and related operations, curtail development of our product candidates and our corporate function responsible for reviewing license opportunities for our technologies. If we are able to raise capital, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: · the scope of operations we are able to maintain, including manufacturing capabilities; · our ability to engage new partners for fee-for-service feasibility studies and licensing agreements; · the level of Fortical sales, particularly in light of new and potential competition and the outcome of the March 5, 2013 meeting of an FDA advisory committee regarding calcitonin; · the generation of revenue, if any, from our Tarsa agreement; · our ability to undertake discovery and research programs and the scientific progress in any such programs; · our ability to progress preclinical studies and clinical trials and the outcome and timing of any such trials; · our ability to undertake discovery, research and development programs and the success of any such programs; · our ability to maintain existing, and establish additional, corporate partnerships and licensing arrangements; 10 · our partners’ ability to successfully develop, sell and market products utilizing our technologies; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; · the time and costs involved in maintaining our production facility; · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims including our current litigation regarding Apotex’s ANDA; and · our ability to acquire or license new technologies and products. We have incurred substantial costs and could face additional material costs related to a financial restatement and a material weakness in our internal controls. In response to the accounting associated with an embedded derivative liability associated with our March 2010 senior secured convertible notes, our Audit Committee undertook an investigation into our practices and determined, in conjunction with management, that we needed to restate certain prior period financial statements and amend related disclosure. As a result, we: · filed a statement on Form 8-K that disclosed that certain of our previously filed financial statements should no longer be relied upon; · delayed the filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2012, which caused or precipitated various defaults under our financial agreement with Victory Park and affiliates; · incurred materially increased professional fees; and · are subject to the possibility of future investigations, litigation or other actions, such as shareholder activism, arising out of the restatement, which would further increase our costs and expenses and consume management time, and could lead to fines, penalties, settlements or damages. These matters have had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our financial condition. We are required to make payments under the Victory Park promissory notes in the principal amount of $47,816,609, plus accrued interest. We owe an aggregate principal amount of $47,816,609, plus accrued interest of $5,623,898 as of December 31, 2012, on various promissory notes payable to Victory Park affiliates that become due on September 21, 2013. Notwithstanding the maturity dates of such promissory notes, we are currently in default under such promissory notes. As a result, Victory Park could accelerate our payment obligations in accordance with the terms of the notes and related finance agreement. We do not currently have sufficient cash to repay these notes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations or from other sources in order to make the payments when due. We are required to make payments under the Levy loans in June 2013. We owe an aggregate original principal amount of $14,438,000 on notes payable to the founding Levy family. As of December 31, 2012, principal and interest on these notes aggregated $23,433,000. We do not currently have sufficient cash to repay these notes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations or from other sources in order to make the payments when due in June 2013. If we do not make the required payments when due, we will be in default under the terms of the applicable notes. We have significant historical losses and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred annual losses since our inception, and we may never achieve profitability. At December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $216,627,000. Our gross revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $9,438,000, $20,508,000 and $11,340,000, respectively. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. Our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 consisted primarily of Fortical sales and royalties, licensing revenue and Peptelligence™ revenue. As of December 31, 2012, we had one material revenue generating license agreement and one material revenue generating agreement fee-for-service feasibility studies. We believe that to achieve profitability we will require the successful commercialization of our licensees’ oral or nasal calcitonin products (which will likely be impacted by the recommendations of the March 5, 2013 FDA advisory committee meeting regarding calcitonin), our oral PTH product candidate, our obesity program and another peptide product or biotechnology in the U.S. and/or abroad. However, our products, product candidates and technologies may never become commercially successful. For 2012, 2011 and 2010, we had losses from operations of $9,371,000, $3,466,000 and $10,324,000, respectively. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $34,286,000, $7,096,000 and $32,534,000, respectively. 11 Any material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. In November 2012, we identified a material weakness that resulted in improper accounting for a significant non-routine transaction. Management has determined that the material weakness was a result of inadequate processes and personnel in place at the time of such transaction to assess the accounting for significant non-routine transactions. However, prior to the identification of the material weakness, we hired a Chief Financial Officer and a Corporate Controller with relevant industry and accounting expertise to enhance our internal controls over financial reporting. Additionally, we enhanced our controls related to the preparation of accounting position papers for complex transactions and, where appropriate, management seeks the advice of qualified outside consultants on accounting matters related to the application of U.S. GAAP to complex, non-ordinary course transactions and in other instances as warranted. As a result of the material weakness, management determined that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting during certain prior periods. The existence of one or more material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could result in future errors in our financial statements. Substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, or the market price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, our ability to obtain financing or to operate our business, or obtain financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which, in turn, could further materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. Moreover, our reputation with customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business An FDA advisory committee's recent review of calcitonin products will negatively impact our operations. On July 20, 2012, the EMA issued a press release concerning the marketability of approved calcitonin products in Europe, concluding there was evidence of a small increased risk of cancer with long-term use of current calcitonin medications approved and commercially available in Europe since 1973, and calling for curtailment of calcitonin usage. In November 2012, following an appeal of their earlier recommendation, the EMA announced that it had reconfirmed its original conclusion that the benefits of calcitonin-containing medicines do not outweigh their risks in the treatment of osteoporosis and that they should no longer be used for this condition. Subsequently, other health authorities, including, Health Canada, announced that they were reviewing the calcitonin data to determine whether to follow suit. On March 5, 2013, the FDA held an advisory committee meeting to discuss whether the overall benefit-risk assessment of calcitonin salmon products supports their continued marketing for the treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis. The advisory committee concluded that the benefits of salmon calcitonin products, including Fortical, do not outweigh the potential risks associated with their use and as a result, should not continue to be broadly marketed. Additionally, it was recommended that fracture prevention data be required for the approval of new calcitonin products in development for osteoporosis prevention and treatment, such as the oral calcitonin product being developed by Tarsa. The FDA will assess the recommendations and may or may not concur with the advisory committee. The FDA has not yet issued a response to the advisory committee recommendations. The Company believes that the advisory committee recommendations will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operations. We licensed to USL our patented nasal formulation of calcitonin for commercialization in the United States and have licensed the development and worldwide commercialization rights (except China) for our Phase 3 oral calcitonin to Tarsa. The March 5, 2013 FDA advisory committee recommendations could have a significant impact to the Fortical product line and to our investment in Tarsa. The recommendation will materially adversely affect our finances and operations by potentially delaying, reducing or eliminating sales and royalties on Fortical, limiting or eliminating the value of current calcitonin development projects and limiting the potential value of our investment in Tarsa. Additionally, the recommendation and the FDA’s response to the recommendation may impact the carrying value of our assets, including fixed assets, inventories and patents, as well as our ability to obtain adequate financing. As of December 31, 2012, the following events and circumstances indicated that the carrying value of the Company’s long lived assets may not be recoverable: (i) potential impact of the EMA press release; (ii) continuing operating losses; (iii) significant revisions to internal revenue forecasts; and (iv) a significant decline in the Company’s stock price. The Company performed an asset impairment assessment as of December 31, 2012 and this analysis did not result in an impairment charge for the twelve months ending December 31, 2012. If the FDA were to require the withdrawal of calcitonin medications from the market, it could result in impairment charges to the Company’s fixed assets of up to $1,400,000, to its patents of up to $300,000 and to its inventories of up to approximately $2,000,000 (balances as of December 31, 2012). 12 We have defaulted under various agreements with Victory Park, including the Amended and Restated Financing Agreement, as amended by the Forbearance Agreement and First Amendment, our senior promissory notes and the amended and restated registration rights agreement. Our failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2012 as a result of our financial restatement caused an event of default under the Amended and Restated Financing Agreement dated March 16, 2010, among the Company, Victory Park Management, LLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and Victory Park Credit Opportunities Master Fund, Ltd., as amended by the Forbearance Agreement and First Amendment to Amended and Restated Financing Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2012, by and among the Company, Agent, Victory Park Credit Opportunities, L.P., VPC Fund II, L.P., VPC Intermediate Fund II (Cayman) L.P., and Victory Park Credit Opportunities Intermediate Fund, L.P. As of September 21, 2012, we lacked sufficient shares of common stock to deliver all of the shares issuable upon the conversion of the promissory notes held by the Victory Park entities. Under the restated financing agreement, we are required to obtain stockholder approval to amend our certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares to allow for the conversion of the notes in full and until such time as we receive approval to increase the authorized shares, Victory Park has the ability to demand payment in cash for any shortfall in authorized shares upon a notice of conversion. Under the restated financing agreement, we were required to prepare and file proxy materials with the SEC and hold a stockholder meeting no later than January 21, 2013 to increase the number of authorized shares of our common stock. As a result of the financial restatement and related matters, we have neither completed the required proxy materials nor held a stockholder meeting. In addition to the foregoing, under the terms of the restated financing agreement with Victory Park, as amended by the forbearance agreement, we are required to trade our common stock on the OTCBB. However, our common stock now trades on the pink sheets. Additionally, we must maintain a cash balance in a specified account in excess of $250,000. We expect to default with respect to such minimum cash requirement as of March 31, 2013. The restated financing agreement also specifies numerous additional events of default, including without limitation: failure to pay principal or interest; filing for bankruptcy; breach of covenants, representation or warranties; the occurrence of a material adverse effect (as defined in the agreement); a change in control (as defined in the agreement); the failure of any registration statement required to be filed to be declared effective by the SEC and maintain effective pursuant to the terms of the our registration rights agreement with Victory Park (which is described further in the following paragraph); any material decline or depreciation in the value or market price of the collateral. We may now or in the foreseeable future also be in default under one or more of the additional provisions of the restated financing agreement. Under the restated financing agreement, for so long as an event of default is continuing, the unpaid principal amount of the promissory notes bears interest at the default interest rate, which is the current interest rate under the agreement plus 3%. In addition, the lenders have the right, following written notice, to cause us to redeem all or any portion of the notes. The price for redemption of the notes shall be equal to the greater of (i) an amount equal to the sum of one hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the outstanding principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, plus accrued and unpaid late charges, and (ii) an amount equal to the product of (A) the number of shares of our common stock into which the principal amount and all accrued and unpaid interest outstanding under the notes to be redeemed may, without giving effect to any limitations set forth in Section 4 of the notes, as of the effective date of conversion (in accordance with the terms of the note), multiplied by (B) the “Weighted Average Price” (as defined in the notes) for one share of our common stock as of such date. We do not have sufficient cash to redeem the notes. Pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2012, by and among us and certain selling stockholders affiliated with Victory Park, we agreed to file registration statements to cover the resale by the selling stockholders of certain shares of our common stock issuable from time to time upon the conversion of the notes. On October 19, 2012, we filed a registration statement on Form S-1 (which has not been declared effective by the SEC) relating to certain shares of our common stock. We agreed to use our reasonably best efforts to have the registration statement declared effective as soon as practicable, but in no event later than the earlier of (i) the date that is ninety (90) days after the closing date and (ii) the fifth (5th) business day after we are notified by the SEC that the applicable registration statement will not be reviewed or is no longer subject to further review and comment. On October 31, 2012, we were notified by the SEC that it would not review the registration statement and Victory Park subsequently extended the timing for the registration statement to be declared effective to November 30, 2012. Notwithstanding such requirements under the agreement and Victory Park’s extension, as a result of the financial restatement and related matters described in this report, we have not requested that the registration statement be declared effective. We also agreed to keep the registration statements effective at all times until the earlier of (i) the date as of which all the registrable securities may be sold without restriction pursuant to Rule 144 and (ii) the date on which all of the registrable securities covered by such registration statement have been sold. If a registration statement required to be filed by us is not filed with the SEC on or before the filing deadline or filed with the SEC but not declared effective by the SEC on or before the effectiveness deadline, or on any day after the effective date of the registration statement, sales of all of the registration securities cannot be made (other than during an allowable grace period) pursuant to the registration statement (including because of a suspension or delisting of our common stock on its principal market or a failure to register a sufficient number of shares of common stock), then as partial relief for the damages to any holder of registrable securities we shall pay to each holder of registrable securities an amount in cash equal to two percent (2%) of the aggregate value of such holder’s registrable securities required to be included in such registration statement for each 30 day period (pro-rated for periods totaling less than 30 days) until September 21, 2014, excluding for days prior to the date that the convertible notes become convertible, the value of any conversion shares included in such registrable securities. As a result of our limited resources, we do not expect to be able to complete the required registrations in the near-term. 13 Our Biotechnologies Business Unit might not be successful. In September 2010, we announced a realignment of our business and the creation of two new highly focused strategic business units: the Biotechnologies Business Unit and the Therapeutics Business Unit. We formed the Biotechnologies Business Unit with the intent of expanding our Peptelligence™ platform of peptide oral drug delivery and manufacturing assets and capabilities by (i) generating near-term revenue from fee-for-service feasibility studies, and (ii) entering into license agreements with third parties permitting them to utilize our technology in their drug development efforts. In 2012, we entered into seven new fee-for-service feasibility study agreements. Furthermore, in 2012 we were not able to enter into a definitive license agreement based on one of our oral peptide delivery feasibility studies, other than our license agreement with Tarix Pharmaceuticals, which, however did not result in the receipt of an upfront payment. In the second half of 2012, several of our early stage development partners indicated that, given the funding environment, until they are able to partner, they may not have sufficient discretionary cash resources to satisfy commercially reasonable licensing terms. In addition, certain parties with whom we’ve entered into fee-for-service feasibility studies have decided to extend or expand their current feasibility programs and are not ready to enter into a definitive licensing agreement until their ongoing feasibility studies yield certain desired targets. While the Company is still actively pursuing opportunities for its Biotechnologies Business Unit, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to enter into any such agreement. Even if the Company is able to enter into such agreements, there can be no assurance as to the terms and conditions of any such agreement. As a result, our Biotechnology Business Unit may not be successful or effectively implemented. If we are unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations for future years are highly dependent on USL’s successful commercialization of Fortical and could be further impacted by generic or other competition and recent recommendations by an FDA advisory committee. Fortical is our only product approved by the FDA and is commercialized by USL pursuant to an exclusive license agreement. Any factors that adversely impact the marketing of Fortical including, but not limited to, the recommendations made on March 5, 2013 regarding the use of calcitonin products by an FDA advisory committee, competition, including generic competition and/or product substitutions, acceptance in the marketplace, or delays related to production and distribution or regulatory issues, will have a negative impact on our cash flow and operating results. For 2012, compared to 2011, our Fortical sales to USL increased 15% while USL’s Fortical royalties to us decreased 57%. For 2011, compared to 2010, our Fortical sales to USL decreased 27% while USL’s Fortical royalties to us decreased 46%. However, our 2012 sales figures for Fortical include approximately $1,255,000 in additional cash in the fourth quarter of 2012 with respect to advanced purchase orders from USL that were previously scheduled for the first quarter of 2013. Additionally, we were advanced $400,000 from USL in the fourth quarter of 2012 for the production of batches in 2013. These payments will reduce cash flows generated by Fortical in future periods. Fortical sales to USL are at a fixed transfer price, while Fortical royalties reflect both declining unit sales as well as declining net selling price. In December 2008, Apotex and Sandoz launched nasal calcitonin products which are generic to Novartis’ nasal calcitonin product, but not to Fortical. In June 2009, Par also launched a product generic to Novartis’ nasal calcitonin product. Certain providers have substituted these products for Fortical, causing Fortical sales and royalties to decrease. Further decreases in Fortical sales or royalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Apotex has a pending ANDA for a nasal calcitonin product that we claim infringes our Fortical patent. Our Fortical patent expires in 2021. We sued Apotex for infringement of our Fortical Patent and Apotex has been enjoined from conducting any activities which would infringe the patent. Apotex appealed that decision and the Company prevailed in the litigation. If additional actions are taken by Apotex that result in a different outcome, then Apotex could be in a position to market its nasal calcitonin product if and when its pending ANDA receives FDA approval. Risks Related to Product Development and Commercialization We do not have sufficient resources to develop products on our own and, as a result, our success is dependent on our ability to establish and maintain partnerships for product development; We have only two significant license agreements and may not be able to re-license our oral PTH program. We do not currently have, nor do we expect to have in the near future, sufficient financial resources and personnel to develop products on our own. Thus, we do not currently have the resources to fund a Phase 3 study for oral PTH without a new licensee. Accordingly, we expect to continue to depend on pharmaceutical companies to assist in the development of product candidates. Currently, we only have two significant license agreements. 14 The process of establishing partnerships is difficult and time-consuming. Our discussions with potential partners may not lead to the establishment of new partnerships on favorable terms, if at all. If we successfully establish new partnerships, the partnerships may never result in the successful development of our product candidates or the generation of significant revenue. Management of our relationships with partners will require: · significant time and effort from our management team; · coordination of our research with the research priorities of our corporate partners; · effective allocation of our resources to multiple projects; and · an ability to attract and retain key management, scientific, production and other personnel. We are pursuing opportunities to license our technologies, including our oral and nasal delivery technologies and our manufacturing technology. We believe that the development of more desirable formulations is essential to expand consumer acceptance of peptide pharmaceutical products. However, we may not be successful in any of these efforts. Even if we are able to enter into new relationships with pharmaceutical companies, we may not be able to manage these relationships successfully. Furthermore, other companies may develop similar products, or superior products, before we do. Most of our product candidates are in early stages of development and we and any licensees may not be successful in efforts to develop products for many years, if ever. Our success depends on our and any licensees’ ability to commercialize a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide products that will generate revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. Except with respect to the Phase 3 calcitonin program licensed to Tarsa, which may be adversely impacted by the outcome of the FDA advisory committee meeting held on March 5, 2013 regarding calcitonin products, our product candidates are in early stages of development and have not been out-licensed. Even if the outcome of the FDA advisory committee meeting is positive, additional data may be required of Tarsa and the successful development of an oral calcitonin product may take several more years. Similarly, neither we nor any potential licensee may ever develop PTH or any other peptide product that helps us achieve profitability. Even if we and/or a licensee is successful in developing such a product, it is likely that development of any product will take several years. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on a number of factors, including our and our licensees’ ability to complete development efforts and obtain regulatory approval for additional product candidates. We may not be successful in our efforts to gain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates and, if approved, the approval may not be on a timely basis. Even if we or any licensees are successful in our development efforts, we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approval for our product candidates. The FDA must approve the commercial manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in the United States. Similar regulatory approvals are required for the sale of pharmaceutical products outside of the United States. None of our products other than Fortical has been approved for sale in the United States, and our other product candidates may never receive the approvals necessary for commercialization. Additional human testing must be conducted on our product candidates before they can be approved for commercial sale and such testing requires the investment of significant resources. Any delay in receiving, or failure to receive, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to generate product revenues. Our limited financial resources and lack of a marketing organization will likely require us to rely on licensees or other third parties to assist in the commercialization of any pharmaceutical products we are able to successfully develop. Because of our limited financial resources and our lack of a marketing organization, if we successfully develop or in-license any pharmaceutical product we are likely to rely on licensees or other parties to perform one or more tasks for the commercialization of any such pharmaceutical product. If any of our product candidates are approved for commercial sale, the product will need to be manufactured in commercial quantities at a reasonable cost in order for it to be a successful product that can generate profits, which may require us to work with third party manufacturers. We may incur additional costs and delays while working with these parties, and these parties may ultimately be unsuccessful. 15 Fortical currently faces competition from large pharmaceutical companies and, if our other products receive regulatory approval, these other products would also face competition from large pharmaceutical companies with superior resources. We are engaged in developing pharmaceutical products, which is a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. To date, we have concentrated our efforts primarily on products to treat one indication — osteoporosis. Like the market for any pharmaceutical product, the market for treating osteoporosis has the potential for rapid, unpredictable and significant technological change. Competition is intense from specialized biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, major pharmaceutical and chemical companies and universities and research institutions. Fortical also faces competition from large pharmaceutical companies that produce other osteoporosis products and, if any of our other products receive regulatory approval, these other products likely would also face competition from large pharmaceutical companies with substantially greater financial resources, research and development staffs and facilities, and regulatory experience than we have. Major companies in the field of osteoporosis treatment include Novartis, Merck, Eli Lilly and Sanofi-Aventis. One or more of these potential competitors could, at any time, develop products or a manufacturing process that could render our technology or products noncompetitive or obsolete. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our inventions. Our policy is to include confidentiality obligations in all research contracts, joint development agreements and consulting relationships that provide access to our trade secrets and other know-how. However, parties with confidentiality obligations could breach their agreements causing us harm. If a secrecy obligation were to be breached, we may not have the financial resources necessary for a legal challenge. If licensees, consultants or other third parties use technological information independently developed by them or by others in the development of our products, disputes may arise from the use of this information and as to the ownership rights to products developed using this information. These disputes may not be resolved in our favor and could materially impact our business. Our technology or products could give rise to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims from human testing, manufacturing and sale of pharmaceutical products. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, can result in product liability claims even if our products are not actually at fault for causing an injury. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to cause, adverse side effects or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug is actually manufactured and sold. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity, time and expense involved in defending such a claim may interfere with our business. We may not have sufficient resources to defend against or satisfy these claims. We currently maintain $10,000,000 in product liability insurance coverage. However, this amount may not be sufficient to protect us against losses or may be unavailable in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Risks Related to Government Regulation Because we are a biopharmaceutical company, our operations are subject to extensive government regulation. Our laboratory research, development and production activities, as well as those of our collaborators and licensees, are subject to significant regulation by federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities. In addition to obtaining FDA approval and other regulatory approvals for our products, we must maintain approvals for our manufacturing facility to produce calcitonin and any other products for human use. The regulatory approval process for a pharmaceutical product requires substantial resources and may take many years. Our inability to obtain approvals or delays in obtaining approvals would adversely affect our ability to continue our development program, to manufacture and sell our products, and to receive revenue from milestone payments, product sales or royalties. The FDA and other regulatory agencies may audit our production facility at any time to ensure compliance with cGMP guidelines. These guidelines require that we conduct our production operation in strict compliance with our established rules for manufacturing and quality controls. Any of these agencies can suspend production operations and product sales if they find significant or repeated deviations from these guidelines. A suspension would likely cause us to incur additional costs or delays in product development and manufacturing. In addition, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. It is illegal to pay, offer to pay or authorize the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. Our present and future business is, and will continue to be, subject to various other laws, rules and/or regulations applicable to us as a result of our domestic and international business. 16 Risks Related to Operations Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We filed applications for U.S. patents relating to proprietary peptide manufacturing technology and oral and nasal formulations that we have invented in the course of our research. Our most important U.S. manufacturing and delivery patents expire from 2016 to 2030 and we have applications pending that could extend that protection. To date, twenty-three U.S. patents have issued and other applications are pending. We have also made patent application filings in selected foreign countries and eighty-one foreign patents have issued with other applications pending. We face the risk that any of our pending applications will not be issued as patents. In addition, our patents may be found to be invalid or unenforceable, including in the pending ANDA litigation with Apotex. Our business also is subject to the risk that our issued patents will not provide us with significant competitive advantages if, for example, a competitor were to independently develop or obtain similar or superior technologies. To the extent we are unable to protect our patents and patent applications, our investment in those technologies may not yield the benefits that we expect. The current financial climate may adversely affect our business and financial results. The global credit crisis that began in 2007 and was further exacerbated by events occurring in the financial markets in the fall of 2008 continues to impact the financial markets. These events have negatively impacted the ability of corporations to raise capital through equity financings or borrowings. The current conditions in the financial markets may continue for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to raise capital on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may impact our ability to license our product candidates and technologies to other companies, may impact the ability of third parties’ to fulfill contractual obligations, and may cause consumers to defer purchases of prescription medicines, such as Fortical, in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our product could be adversely impacted. We may be unable to retain key employees and the members of our Board of Directors or recruit additional qualified personnel. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical, production and managerial personnel. We also rely on the expertise and experience of our Board of Directors. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our business. However, even if we are able to raise additional capital in the near term, our financial condition may not allow us to pay competitive cash compensation. In addition, we have limited ability to issue equity compensation at this time. There can be no guarantee that existing compensation will serve to prevent our employees, including our key employees, and directors from resigning. We may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to maintain and develop our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key personnel in a timely manner, could harm our programs and our business. Compliance with regulations governing public company corporate governance and reporting is complex and expensive. Laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the eXtensible Business Reporting Language, or XBRL, requirements, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 have significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. This legislation made significant changes to corporate governance and executive compensation rules for public companies. Our management team is required to invest significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which results in significant general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Insurance coverage is increasingly more costly and difficult to obtain or maintain. While we currently have insurance for our business, property, directors and officers, and our products, insurance is increasingly more costly and narrower in scope, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be required to share that risk in excess of our insurance limits. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage that is outside of our insurance coverage, we may incur significant uninsured costs associated with loss or damage that could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all. As a result of our financial condition, including lack of liquidity, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage this would have a material adverse effect on our ability to sustain operations. Furthermore, if we do not have an effective Directors and Officers insurance policy, it will be extremely difficult to attract qualified directors and officers. 17 Risks Related to our Capital Stock The market price of our common stock is volatile and our common stock is thinly traded. The market price of our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, highly unstable. Factors, that have caused volatility and could cause additional volatility in the market price of our common stock include, among others: our announcements regarding results or pre-clinical or clinical work; announcements regarding Fortical, specifically, and calcitonin announcements by regulatory agencies and other companies; regulatory matters; research and development activities; new or existing products or procedures; signing or termination of licensing agreements; concerns about competition; sales; our financial condition; operating results; litigation; government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements; patents or proprietary rights; and public concern over the safety of activities or products. We expect such factors to continue to impact our market price and volume for the foreseeable future. Fluctuations in stock prices can sometimes occur as a result of matters that are not directly related to the actual performance of the affected companies. In addition, future sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders, and by the exercise and subsequent sale of our common stock by the holders of outstanding and future warrants and options, could have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. Victory Park is able to exercise substantial control over our business. Victory Park Management, L.L.C., or Victory Park, and its affiliates hold 9,147,464 shares of our common stock, which represented approximately 10.0% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. Victory Park’s affiliates also hold promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $47,816,609, which are convertible into shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, Victory Park and its affiliates could acquire approximately 80% of our voting securities on a fully diluted basis assuming the conversation of all principal and interest as of such date (and assuming that a sufficient number of shares of our common stock existed to allow for such conversation in full), which would result in a change in control. Victory Park has the right to designate two persons for election to our Board of Directors for so long as Victory Park and its affiliates own a significant percentage of our securities. Pursuant to this right, Richard Levy serves as a member of our Board of Directors and Victory Park is entitled to fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors, if it so chooses. As a result of the foregoing, Victory Park is able to exercise substantial influence over our business, policies and practices. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under SEC rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the pink sheets. As a result, the holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations concerning the market value of the stock. Stockholders are likely to experience greater difficulties in attempting to sell the stock than if it was listed on a stock exchange. Because our common stock is not traded on a stock exchange and the market price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” These include the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customer concerning our common stock and the risks of penny stocks. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock could reduce funding activity for our common stock and, as a result, adversely affect the market liquidity of our shares. This may also affect the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the stock. The conversion of the Victory Park notes will have a dilutive effect on our stock price. In March 2010, we issued promissory notes to various Victory Park affiliates that were subsequently re-issued in September 2012 in relation to the financing at such time (the “Re-issued Notes”), which become due and payable on March 17, 2013. In September 2012, we also issued an additional promissory note (the “First Amendment Note”) to a Victory Park affiliate, which becomes due and payable on September 21, 2013. The initial conversion rate, which is subject to adjustment as set forth in the notes, is calculated by dividing the sum of the principal to be converted, plus all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, by $0.15 per share for the Re-issued Notes and $0.05 for the First Amendment Note. If we subsequently make certain issuances of common stock or common stock equivalents at an effective purchase price less than the then-applicable conversion price, the conversion price of the notes will be reduced to such lower price. Assuming that both the outstanding principal and interest under the notes were converted in full on December 31, 2012 at the current conversion prices, then, together with the shares and other securities owned by them, Victory Park and its affiliates would receive an additional 412,047,811 shares of our common stock (assuming sufficient shares of common stock were authorized to allow for such conversation) resulting in beneficial ownership of approximately 80% of our outstanding common stock (as diluted by outstanding options) as of that date. 18 In addition to the conversion of the Victory Park notes, the exercise of warrants and options, as well as other issuances of shares, will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2012, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 20,000 shares of our common stock, which are currently exercisable at an exercise price of $2.00 per share. There were also outstanding stock options to purchase an aggregate of 18,875,525 shares of common stock, at an average exercise price of $0.51, of which 7,141,731 are currently exercisable. If our stock price should increase above the exercise price of these derivative securities, then such exercise at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with collaborations or licensing agreements or in connection with other financing efforts, including our issuance of stock upon the conversion of Victory Park's notes. Accounting for our revenues and costs involves significant estimates which, if actual results differ from estimates, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. As further described in “Summary of Critical Accounting Policies” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” accounting for our contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes in place to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and the results of our operations. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of Unigene. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a take-over offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 