Risk Factors. Our business is subject to the following risks: Unigene’s operations for 2009 and future years are highly dependent on the successful marketing and sales of Fortical and could be impacted by generic or other competition. Fortical is our only product approved by the FDA. Any factors that adversely impact the marketing of Fortical including, but not limited to, competition, including generic competition, acceptance in the marketplace, or delays related to production and distribution or regulatory issues, will have a negative impact on our cash flow and operating results. In December 2008, Apotex and Sandoz launched nasal calcitonin products which are generic to Novartis’ nasal calcitonin product, but not to Fortical. We do not yet know the effect on Fortical sales and royalties of the launch of these competing products. It is reasonable to assume that certain providers may substitute these products for Fortical and, in that event, Fortical sales and royalties would decrease. In addition, Apotex has a pending ANDA for a nasal calcitonin product that we claim infringes our Fortical patent. If we do not prevail in that litigation, then Apotex could be in a position to market its nasal calcitonin product if and when its pending ANDA receives FDA approval. We have significant historical losses and may continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred annual losses since our inception. As a result, at December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $129,000,000. Our gross revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $19,229,000, $20,423,000 and $6,059,000, respectively. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. Revenue for 2008 consisted primarily of Fortical sales and royalties. Revenue for 2007 consisted primarily of Fortical sales and royalties, as well as peptide sales to Novartis. Revenue for 2006 consisted primarily of Fortical sales and royalties. As of December 31, 2008, we had three material revenue generating license agreements. We believe that to achieve profitability we will require at least the successful commercialization of our oral or nasal calcitonin products, our oral PTH product, our SDBG program or another peptide product in the U.S. and/or abroad. For 2008, 2007 and 2006, we had losses from operations of $4,950,000, $3,096,000 and $10,977,000, respectively. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, were $6,078,000, $3,448,000 and $11,784,000, respectively. We might never be profitable. Our independent registered public accounting firm has added an explanatory paragraph to their audit opinion issued in connection with the financial statements for each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 concerning the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to obtain additional funding will determine our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We may require additional funding in the near term to sustain our operations and our ability to secure additional financing is uncertain. We had a cash flow deficit from operations of $8,575,000 for 2008. We generated cash flow from operations of $3,283,000 for 2007. We had a cash flow deficit from operations of $10,962,000 for 2006. We believe that we will generate cash to apply toward funding our operations through sales of Fortical to USL, royalties from USL sales of Fortical, and/or the achievement of milestones under the Novartis and GSK agreements. However, if USL reduces orders for Fortical or substantially reduces Fortical’s price to meet generic or other competition, or if we are unable to achieve milestones and sufficient sales on a timely basis, we would need additional funds from new license agreements or from financings in the near term to continue our operations. 8 Table of Contents We may be unable to raise on acceptable terms, if at all, the substantial capital resources necessary to conduct our operations. If we are unable to raise the required capital, we may be forced to limit some or all of our research and development programs and related operations, curtail commercialization of our product candidates and, ultimately, cease operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • The level of Fortical sales, particularly in light of new and potential competition; • our ability to successfully defend our Fortical patent against Apotex’s abbreviated NDA, or ANDA; • the achievement of milestones under our Novartis and GSK agreements; • continued scientific progress in our discovery and research programs; • progress with preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the magnitude and scope of our discovery, research and development programs; • our ability to maintain existing, and establish additional, corporate partnerships and licensing arrangements; • our partners’ ability to sell and market our products or their products utilizing our technologies; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the time and costs involved in maintaining our production facility; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims including our current litigation regarding Apotex’s ANDA; and • the pharmaceutical industry’s need to acquire or license new technologies and products. On September 30, 2008 we entered into a financing agreement with Victory Park Management, LLC (“Victory Park”) pursuant to which we borrowed $15,000,000 from Victory Park and, in connection therewith, we issued to Victory Park a three-year variable rate (currently 14%) senior secured non-convertible term note. We received net proceeds of $14,372,000 after fees and closing expenses paid as of September 30, 2008. We have the ability to issue an additional $5,000,000 of term notes, under the same terms as the issued note, along with 375,000 shares of our common stock, by September 30, 2010. There are no assurances that we will have sufficient cash from operations or from new financings to re-pay the Victory Park debt when it comes due in 2011, or that new financings will be available on favorable terms. We believe that satisfying our long-term capital requirements will require at least the successful commercialization of one of our peptide products. However, our products may never become commercially successful. Most of our products are in early stages of development and we may not be successful in our efforts to develop a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide product that will produce revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. Our success depends on our ability to commercialize a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide product that will produce revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. Except for Fortical, most of our products are in early stages of development and we may never develop a calcitonin, PTH or other peptide product that makes us profitable. We have a joint venture in China with SPG that may never generate profits. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to complete development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for additional product candidates and successfully commercialize those product candidates or our technologies. We believe that the development of more desirable formulations is essential to expand consumer acceptance of peptide pharmaceutical products. However, we may not be successful in our development efforts, or other companies may develop such products, or superior products, before we do. We may not be successful in our efforts to gain regulatory approval for our products other than Fortical and, if approved, the approval may not be on a timely basis. Even if we are successful in our development efforts, we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approval for our products other than Fortical. The FDA must approve the commercial manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in the United States. Similar regulatory approvals are required for the sale of pharmaceutical products outside of the United States. Our joint venture may not be able to obtain regulatory approval in China. None of our products other than Fortical has been approved for sale in the United States, and our other products may never receive the approvals necessary for commercialization. We must conduct further human testing on certain of our products before they can be approved for commercial sale and such testing requires the investment of significant resources. Any delay in receiving, or failure to receive, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to generate product revenues. 9 Table of Contents We may not be successful in efficiently developing, manufacturing or commercializing our products. Because of our limited clinical, manufacturing and regulatory experience and our lack of a marketing organization, we are likely to rely on licensees or other parties to perform one or more tasks for the commercialization of our pharmaceutical products, such as USL to market and distribute Fortical in the U.S. If any of our products are approved for commercial sale, the product will need to be manufactured in commercial quantities at a reasonable cost in order for it to be a successful product that can generate profits. We may incur additional costs and delays while working with these parties, and these parties may ultimately be unsuccessful in the commercialization of a product. We have made a substantial investment in our production facility which we may need to upgrade or expand in order to manufacture some of our products in commercial quantities required by our corporate partners. We have constructed and are operating a facility intended to produce Fortical, calcitonin, PTH and other peptides. This facility has been inspected by U.S. and European regulatory authorities, as well as current and prospective licensees. The risks associated with this facility include the failure to achieve targeted production and profitability goals, the development by others of superior processes and products, and the absence of a market for products produced by the facility. We upgraded our manufacturing facility in order to expand our fill line for Fortical. However, the successful commercialization of any of our other products may require us to make additional expenditures to expand or upgrade our manufacturing operations. We may be unable to make these capital expenditures when required. Our success is dependent on our ability to establish and maintain commercial partnerships and currently we have only three significant license agreements. We do not currently have, nor do we expect to have in the near future, sufficient financial resources and personnel to develop and market our products on our own. Accordingly, we expect to continue to depend on large pharmaceutical companies for revenues from sales of products, research sponsorship and distribution of our products. The process of establishing partnerships is difficult and time-consuming. Our discussions with potential partners may not lead to the establishment of new partnerships on favorable terms, if at all. If we successfully establish new partnerships, the partnerships may never result in the successful development of our product candidates or the generation of significant revenue. Management of our relationships with these partners would require: • significant time and effort from our management team; • coordination of our research with the research priorities of our corporate partners; • effective allocation of our resources to multiple projects; and • an ability to attract and retain key management, scientific, production and other personnel. We may not be able to manage these relationships successfully. We currently have significant license agreements with Novartis worldwide for the production of calcitonin, with GSK worldwide for oral PTH and with USL in the United States for nasal calcitonin. We are pursuing additional opportunities to license or enter into distribution arrangements for products that utilize our oral and nasal delivery technologies and/or our manufacturing technology, as well as our other technologies. However, we may not be successful in any of these efforts. In June 2000, we entered into a joint venture agreement with SPG for the manufacture and distribution of injectable and nasal calcitonin products in China and possibly, with our approval, other selected Asian markets, for the treatment of osteoporosis. The joint venture began operations in 2002. Sales of its injectable calcitonin product began in 2002, using SPG’s existing license. Initial sales had been used by the joint venture to offset startup costs. The joint venture may never generate significant revenue or profits. We have entered into license agreements in Greece and Israel for nasal calcitonin. To date, we have not received any revenue from these agreements and may never do so. 10 Table of Contents Because we are a biopharmaceutical company, our operations are subject to extensive government regulation. Our laboratory research, development and production activities, as well as those of our collaborators and licensees, are subject to significant regulation by federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities. In addition to obtaining FDA approval and other regulatory approvals for our products, we must obtain approvals for our manufacturing facility to produce calcitonin, PTH and other peptides for human use. The regulatory approval process for a pharmaceutical product requires substantial resources and may take many years. Our inability to obtain approvals or delays in obtaining approvals would adversely affect our ability to continue our development program, to manufacture and sell our products, and to receive revenue from milestone payments, product sales or royalties. The FDA and other regulatory agencies may audit our production facility at any time to ensure compliance with cGMP guidelines. These guidelines require that we conduct our production operation in strict compliance with our established rules for manufacturing and quality controls. Any of these agencies can suspend production operations and product sales if they find significant or repeated deviations from these guidelines. A suspension would likely cause us to incur additional costs or delays in product development. Fortical currently faces competition from large pharmaceutical companies and, if our other products receive regulatory approval, these other products would also face competition from large pharmaceutical companies with superior resources. We are engaged in developing pharmaceutical products, which is a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. To date, we have concentrated our efforts primarily on products to treat one indication — osteoporosis. Like the market for any pharmaceutical product, the market for treating osteoporosis has the potential for rapid, unpredictable and significant technological change. Competition is intense from specialized biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, major pharmaceutical and chemical companies and universities and research institutions. In December 2008, Apotex and Sandoz launched nasal calcitonin products which are generic to Novartis’ nasal calcitonin product, but not to Fortical. We do not yet know the effect on Fortical sales and royalties of the launch of these competing products. It is reasonable to assume that certain providers may substitute these products for Fortical and, in that event, Fortical sales and royalties would decrease. There could also be future competition from products that are generic to Fortical, including Apotex’s product that is the subject of our ANDA litigation. Fortical also faces competition from large pharmaceutical companies that produce osteoporosis products and, if any of our other products receive regulatory approval, these other products likely would also face competition from large pharmaceutical companies with substantially greater financial resources, research and development staffs and facilities, and regulatory experience than we have. Major companies in the field of osteoporosis treatment include Novartis, Merck, Eli Lilly, Sanofi-Aventis and Procter & Gamble. We believe that we should be able to compete with these companies due both to our partnerships with GSK and USL and to our patented technologies. However, one of these potential competitors could, at any time, develop products or a manufacturing process that could render our technology or products noncompetitive or obsolete. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We filed applications for U.S. patents relating to proprietary peptide manufacturing technology and oral and nasal formulations that we have invented in the course of our research. Our most important U.S. manufacturing and delivery patents expire from 2016 to 2021 and we have applications pending that could extend that protection. To date, nine U.S. patents have issued and other applications are pending. We have also made patent application filings in selected foreign countries and seventy-nine foreign patents have issued with other applications pending. We face the risk that any of our pending applications will not be issued as patents. In addition, our patents may be found to be invalid or unenforceable, including in the pending ANDA litigation with Apotex. Our business also is subject to the risk that our issued patents will not provide us with significant competitive advantages if, for example, a competitor were to independently develop or obtain similar or superior technologies. To the extent we are unable to protect our patents and patent applications, our investment in those technologies may not yield the benefits that we expect. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our inventions. Our policy is to include confidentiality obligations in all research contracts, joint development agreements and consulting relationships that provide access to our trade secrets and other know-how. However, parties with confidentiality obligations could breach their agreements causing us harm. If a secrecy obligation were to be breached, we may not have the financial resources necessary for a legal challenge. If licensees, consultants or other third parties use technological information independently developed by them or by others in the development of our products, disputes may arise from the use of this information and as to the ownership rights to products developed using this information. These disputes may not be resolved in our favor and could materially impact our business. There are numerous default provisions under our financing agreement with Victory Park and the entire principal balance of the note comes due in 2011. Beginning October 1, 2008, under our financing agreement with Victory Park, so long as our note balance is at least $5,000,000, we must maintain a cash balance equal to at least 10% of the principal amount of the notes and our cash flow (as defined in the agreement) must be at least $2,000,000 in any fiscal quarter or $9,000,000 in any three consecutive quarters. The agreement specifies certain events of default including, without limitation: failure to pay principal or interest; filing for bankruptcy; breach of covenants, representations or warranties; the occurrence of a material adverse effect (as defined in the agreement); if Warren Levy or Ronald Levy shall, at any time for reasons other than health or without the endorsement of the other Unigene directors, cease to be employed in the same position with similar duties; and any material decline or depreciation in the value or market price of the collateral. Upon any default, among other remedies, both principal and interest would be accelerated and additional charges would apply. There are no assurances that we will have sufficient cash from operations or from new financings to re-pay the Victory Park debt when it comes due in 2011, or that new financings will be available on favorable terms. 11 Table of Contents Our technology or products could give rise to product liability claims. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims from human testing, manufacturing and sale of pharmaceutical products. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, can result in product liability claims even if our products are not actually at fault for causing an injury. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to cause, adverse side effects or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug is actually manufactured and sold. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity, time and expense involved in defending such a claim may interfere with our business. We may not have sufficient resources to defend against or satisfy these claims. We currently maintain $10,000,000 in product liability insurance coverage. However, this amount may not be sufficient to protect us against losses or may be unavailable in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. We have financial obligations under the various agreements related to our joint venture in China. Under the terms of the various agreements related to our joint venture in China, we are obligated to contribute in cash an aggregate of $2,250,000. Our initial cash contribution is $1,050,000, of which $75,000 has been paid. SPG has assigned its joint venture rights and obligations to its subsidiary, CPG, and CPG has agreed to lend us the balance of our initial cash contribution of $975,000 for two years on an interest-free basis. Following our initial contribution we are obligated to contribute up to an additional $1,200,000 in cash. In lieu of cash repayment of our initial cash contribution or future cash contributions, we may reduce our equity participation in the joint venture or provide additional technologies or rights to products in China, to the joint venture. If we and our joint venture partner agree, in addition to or in lieu of future contributions, if any, by the partners, the joint venture may seek government or third party financing. The global financial crisis may adversely affect our business and financial results. The global credit crisis that began in 2007 was further exacerbated by events occurring in the financial markets in the fall of 2008. These events have negatively impacted the ability of corporations to raise capital through equity financings or borrowings. The credit crisis may continue for the foreseeable future. If it continues until that time when we may need additional financing, we may not be able to raise such capital on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may impact our ability to license our products and technologies to other companies and may cause consumers to defer purchases of prescription medicines, such as Fortical, in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our product could differ from our current expectations. We may be unable to retain key employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical, production and managerial personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our business. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical, production and managerial personnel in a timely manner, would harm our research and development programs and our business. Dr. Warren Levy and Dr. Ronald Levy have been our principal executive officers since our inception. We rely on them for their leadership and business direction. Each of them has entered into an agreement with us providing that he shall not engage in any other employment or business for the period of his employment with us and will not engage in a competing business for one year following termination. However, each of them is only bound by his respective employment agreement to provide services for a one-year term. The loss of the services of either of these individuals could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our scientific and business objectives. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, highly unstable. Factors, including our announcement of technological improvements or announcements by other companies, regulatory matters, research and development activities, new or existing products or procedures, signing or termination of licensing agreements, concerns about competition, sales, our financial condition, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, and public concern over the safety of activities or products have had a significant impact on the market price of our stock. We expect such factors to continue to impact our market price for the foreseeable future. In addition, future sales of shares of Unigene common stock by us or our stockholders, and by the exercise and subsequent sale of Unigene common stock by the holders of outstanding and future warrants and options, could have an adverse effect on the price of our stock. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under SEC rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to obtain accurate quotations concerning the market value of the stock. Stockholders also may experience greater difficulties in attempting to sell the stock than if it was listed on a stock exchange. Because Unigene common stock is not traded on a stock exchange and the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” These include the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customer concerning the risks of penny stocks. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of the shares, which in turn may affect the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the stock. 12 Table of Contents The exercise of warrants and options, as well as other issuances of shares, will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2008, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 2,121,571 shares of our common stock, all but 20,000 of which are currently exercisable, at an average exercise price of $2.95 per share. There were also outstanding stock options to purchase an aggregate of 4,864,315 shares of common stock, at an average exercise price of $1.37, of which 3,475,285 are currently exercisable. If our stock price should increase above the exercise price of these derivative securities, then such exercise at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with collaborations or licensing agreements or in connection with other financing efforts, such as our issuance of stock in connection with our loan from Victory Park. If provisions in our stockholder rights plan or Delaware law delay or prevent a change in control of Unigene, we may be unable to consummate a transaction that our stockholders consider favorable. In December 2002, we adopted a stockholder rights plan. This stockholder rights plan increases the costs that would be incurred by an unwanted third party acquirer if such party owns or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for more than 15% of our outstanding common stock. The plan is designed to assure our board of directors a full opportunity to review any proposal to acquire us. However, the plan could prolong the take-over process and, arguably, deter a potential bidder. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders, and a takeover bid otherwise favored by a majority of our stockholders might be rejected by our board of directors. In addition, specific sections of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Accounting for our revenues and costs involves significant estimates which, if actual results differ from estimates, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. As further described in “Summary of Critical Accounting Policies” under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” accounting for our contract related revenues and costs as well as other cost items requires management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and processes in place to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reliable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and the results of our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 