ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements We make forward looking statements in this report based upon management’s understanding of our business and markets and on information currently available to us. Such statements include information regarding future events and expectations and frequently include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” or other similar expressions. Forward looking statements include known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ greatly from these statements and expectations that we express in this report. We encourage all readers to 5 Table of Contents carefully consider the Risk Factors below and all the information presented in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K and caution you not to rely unduly on any forward looking statements. The forward looking statements in this report are made as of the date of this report and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Risks and Uncertainties Markets and Competition We face strong competition in all of the markets in which we participate. Our response to competitor pricing actions and new competitor entries into our product lines, could negatively impact our overall pricing in the marketplace. Efforts to improve pricing could negatively impact our sales volume in certain product categories. Significant negative developments in these areas could adversely affect our financial results and condition. Customer Reliance Foster could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers. A significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers could impact our results of operations and/or financial condition. The Company’s CXT Rail operation and Allegheny Rail Products division are dependent on a Class I railroad for a significant portion of their business. The CXT Rail operation was awarded a long-term contract, from this Class I railroad, for the supply of prestressed concrete railroad ties. CXT expanded and modernized its Grand Island, NE plant in 2005, and completed construction of a new facility in Tucson, AZ during 2006 to accommodate the contract’s requirements. The Class I railroad has agreed to purchase minimum annual quantities from the Grand Island, NE facility through December 2010, and the Tucson, AZ facility through December 2012. A substantial portion of the Company’s operations is heavily dependent on governmental funding of infrastructure projects. Significant changes in the level of government funding of these projects could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on the operating results of the Company. Certain of our businesses, especially our Fabricated Products group, have been hampered with low volumes and margins in 2005 and 2004. While we experienced significant improvement in 2006, the backlog for this business remains weak. Supplier Reliance In certain of our distributed products businesses, we rely on one or two suppliers for key products that we sell to our customers. A significant downturn in the business of one of these suppliers, a disruption in their manufacturing operations, an unwillingness to continue to sell to us or a disruption in the availability of existing and new piling and rail products could adversely impact our financial results. Raw material costs and availability Most of Foster’s businesses utilize steel as a significant product component. The steel industry is cyclical and prices as well as availability are subject to international market forces. We also use significant amounts of cement and aggregate in our concrete railroad tie and our precast concrete building businesses. Cement and aggregate prices have been increasing over recent years. This has not yet had a significant impact on the Company, but it could present problems for our facility in Tucson, AZ. Our financial results could be adversely affected if prices or availability of these materials were to change in a significantly unfavorable manner. New Facilities Failure to successfully implement an efficient manufacturing operation at either of the Company’s new facilities in Tucson, AZ or Pueblo, CO in a cost effective manner would make it difficult for the Company to earn an appropriate return on its investments. 6 Table of Contents Value of our investment in the DM&E Railroad We maintain an ownership interest of approximately 13.4% in the Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad (DM&E), a privately held regional railroad that controls over 2,500 miles of track in eight states. More information on the DM&E can be found on page 24. The Company believes that the value of its investment in the DM&E is significantly higher than the basis inherent in its consolidated balance sheet which is the original cost of the investment plus accrued dividends. The Company further believes that should the Powder River Basin Project discussed on page 25 come to fruition, the value should increase further. There is no assurance, however, that the Project will be built. Union Workforce and Labor Relations Three of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are staffed by employees represented by labor unions. These 177 employees are currently working under two separate collective bargaining agreements that expire in September 2007 and March 2008. We may not be able to successfully negotiate the renewal of these agreements. Additionally, the existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a work stoppage at L. B. Foster’s facilities. Legal Contingencies Changes in our expectations of the outcome or the actual outcome of certain legal actions could vary materially from our current expectations and adversely affect our financial results and/or financial condition. Unexpected Events Unexpected events including fires or explosions at facilities, natural disasters, war, unplanned outages, equipment failures, failure to meet product specifications, or a disruption in certain of our operations may cause our operating costs to increase or otherwise impact our financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 7 Table of Contents 