ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements We make forward looking statements in this report based upon management’s understanding of our business and markets and on information currently available to us. Such statements include information regarding future events and expectations and frequently include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” or other similar expressions. Forward looking statements include known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ greatly from these statements and expectations that we express in this report. We encourage all readers to carefully consider the Risk Factors below and all the information presented in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and caution you not to rely unduly on any forward looking statements. 5 Table of Contents The forward looking statements in this report are made as of the date of this report and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Risks and Uncertainties Markets and Competition We face strong competition in all of the markets in which we participate. Our response to competitor pricing actions and new competitor entries into our product lines, could negatively impact our overall pricing in the marketplace. Efforts to improve pricing could negatively impact our sales volume in certain product categories. Significant negative developments in these areas could adversely affect our financial results and condition. Customer Reliance L. B. Foster could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers. A significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers supplied by Foster could impact our results of operations and/ or financial condition. Supplier Reliance In certain of our distributed products businesses, we rely on one or two suppliers for key products that we sell to our customers. A significant downturn in the business of one of these suppliers, a disruption in their manufacturing operations, or an unwillingness to continue to sell to us, could adversely impact our financial results. Raw material costs and availability Most of L. B. Foster’s businesses utilize steel as a significant product component. The steel industry is cyclical and prices as well as availability are subject to international market forces. We also use significant amounts of cement and aggregate in our concrete railroad tie and our precast buildings businesses. Cement prices have increased over the last two years, while availability in certain areas of the country has been in short supply to the point to where cement has been rationed. This has not had an impact on L. B. Foster as yet, but it could present problems for our new facility in Tucson, AZ. Our financial results could be adversely affected if prices or availability of these materials were to change in a significantly unfavorable manner. New Facilities L. B. Foster may not be able to effectively implement its new manufacturing systems in Tucson, AZ and Pueblo, CO. Failure to implement an efficient manufacturing facility in a cost effective manner would make it difficult for the Company to earn an appropriate return on its investments. Value of our investment in the DM&E Railroad We maintain an ownership interest of approximately 13.4% in The Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad (“DM&E”), a privately held regional railroad that controls over 2,500 miles of track in eight states. More information on the DM&E can be found on page 22. The value of the DM&E and L. B. Foster’s ultimate monetization of such value is subject to various risks and uncertainties that are discussed on page 24. Union Workforce and Labor Relations Three of our manufacturing facilities are staffed by employees represented by labor unions. These 184 employees are currently working under two separate collective bargaining agreements that expire in March 2008 and September 2007. We may not be able to successfully negotiate the renewal of these agreements. Additionally, the existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a work stoppage at L. B. Foster’s facilities. 6 Table of Contents Legal Contingencies Changes in our expectations of the outcome or the actual outcome of certain legal actions could vary materially from our current expectations and adversely affect our financial results and/ or financial condition. Unexpected Events Unexpected events including fires or explosions at facilities, natural disasters, war, unplanned outages, equipment failures, failure to meet product specifications, or a disruption in certain of our operations may cause our operating costs to increase or otherwise impact our financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 