ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements We make forward looking statements in this report based upon management’s understanding of our business and markets and on information currently available to us. Such statements include information regarding future events and expectations and frequently include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” or other similar expressions. Forward looking statements include known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ greatly from these statements and expectations that we express in this report. We encourage all readers to carefully consider the Risk Factors below and all the information presented in our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and caution you not to rely unduly on any forward looking statements. 5 The forward looking statements in this report are made as of the date of this report and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Risks and Uncertainties Markets and Competition We face strong competition in all of the markets in which we participate. Our response to competitor pricing actions and new competitor entries into our product lines, could negatively impact our overall pricing in the marketplace. Efforts to improve pricing could negatively impact our sales volume in all product categories. Significant negative developments in these areas could adversely affect our financial results and condition. Customer Reliance Foster could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers. A significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers could impact our results of operations and /or financial condition. The Company’s CXT Rail operation and Allegheny Rail Products division are dependent on the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) for a significant portion of their business. The CXT Rail operation was awarded a long-term contract from the UPRR for the supply of prestressed concrete railroad ties. CXT Rail expanded and modernized its Grand Island, NE plant in 2005, and completed construction of a new facility in Tucson, AZ in 2006 to accommodate the contract’s requirements. UPRR has agreed to purchase minimum annual quantities from the Grand Island, NE facility through December 2010, and the Tucson, AZ facility through December 2012. A substantial portion of our operations are heavily dependent on governmental funding of infrastructure projects. Many of these projects have “Buy America” or “Buy American” provisions. Significant changes in the level of government funding of these projects could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on our operating results. Additionally, government actions concerning “Buy America” provisions, taxation, tariffs, the environment, or other matters could impact our operating results. Supplier Reliance In our rail and piling distributed products businesses, we rely on one or two suppliers for key products that we sell to our customers. A significant downturn in the business of one of these suppliers, a disruption in their manufacturing operations, an unwillingness to continue to sell to us or a disruption in the availability of existing and new piling and rail products could adversely impact our financial results. A significant portion of our Construction segment net sales and profits are related to the purchase and resale of piling products. In July 2007, Chaparral Steel Company, our primary supplier of steel sheet piling and bearing pile announced that it had entered into an agreement to be acquired by Gerdau Ameristeel Corporation. This transaction closed in September 2007. The Company does not believe there will be an effect on our existing business as the primary supplier relationship with Gerdau Ameristeel Corporation has not been changed as a result of the agreement. If we are unable to continue to distribute the products of Gerdau Ameristeel Corporation, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. Raw material costs and availability Most of Foster’s businesses utilize steel as a significant product component. The steel industry is cyclical and prices as well as availability are subject to international market forces. We also use significant amounts of cement and aggregate in our concrete railroad tie and our precast concrete building businesses. Cement and aggregate prices have been increasing over recent years. This has not yet had a significant impact on the Company, but it could present problems for our facility in Tucson, AZ. Our financial results could be adversely affected if prices or availability of these materials were to change in a significantly unfavorable manner. 6 Sale of our investment in the DM&E Railroad A merger agreement was consummated between the Dakota, Minnesota and Eastern Railroad (DM&E) and the Canadian Pacific Railway Limited (CP) in October 2007. More information about the DM&E and the merger agreement with the CP can be found on page 25 of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Certain of our operating groups sold, from time to time, railroad and construction related materials to the DM&E. As a result of the merger agreement, certain of this business may be provided to the DM&E directly from other suppliers through existing CP relationships. The total amount of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was approximately $18.7 million, $17.2 million, and $9.5 million, respectively. While these revenues generated lower than typical gross profit margins, the Company may not be able to successfully mitigate the impact of this potential loss of business. Union Workforce and Labor Relations Three of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are staffed by employees represented by labor unions. These 141 employees are currently working under two separate collective bargaining agreements. In October 2007, we negotiated the renewal of the collective bargaining agreement with our Spokane, WA workforce represented by the United Steelworkers Local number 338. This agreement, covering approximately 110 employees, expires in September 2011. The collective bargaining agreement related to our bridge products fabricating facility in Bedford, PA represented by the Shopmen’s Local Union number 527 expires in March 2008. We may not be able to successfully negotiate the renewal of this agreement. Additionally, the existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a work stoppage at L. B. Foster’s facilities. Legal Contingencies Changes in our expectations of the outcome of certain legal actions could vary materially from our current expectations and adversely affect our financial results and/or financial condition. Unexpected Events Unexpected events including fires or explosions at facilities, natural disasters, war, unplanned outages, equipment failures, failure to meet product specifications, or a disruption in certain of our operations may cause our operating costs to increase or otherwise impact our financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 7 