ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks and Uncertainties We intend to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances that involve a number of inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits. We evaluate acquisition opportunities that have the potential to support and strengthen our business. We can give no assurances that any opportunities will arise or, if they do, that they will be consummated or that financing will be available. In addition, acquisitions involve inherent risks that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may not be able to achieve the synergies and other benefits we expect from the integration as successfully or rapidly as projected, if at all. Our failure to integrate newly-acquired operations could prevent us from realizing our expected rate of return on an acquired business and could have a material or adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Prolonged unfavorable economic and market conditions could adversely affect our business. We could be adversely impacted by prolonged negative changes in economic conditions affecting either our suppliers or customers as well as the capital markets. No assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully mitigate various prolonged uncertainties including materials cost variability, delayed or reduced customer payments and access to available capital resources outside of operations. We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of the Company’s products and services are sold in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Fluctuations in the relative values of the United States dollar, Canadian dollar and British pound will require adjustments in reported earnings and operations to reflect exchange rate translation in the Company’s Canadian and United Kingdom sales and operations. If the United States dollar strengthens in value as compared to the value of the Canadian dollar or British pound, the Company’s reported earnings in dollars from sales in those currencies will be unfavorable. Conversely, a favorable result will be reported if the United States dollar weakens in value as compared to the value of the Canadian dollar or British pound. Our business operates in highly competitive industries. We face strong competition in each of the markets in which we participate. A slow response to competitor pricing actions and new competitor entries into our product lines could negatively impact our overall pricing. Efforts to improve pricing could negatively impact our sales volume in all product categories. Significant negative developments in these areas could adversely affect our financial results and condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, our ability to compete may be harmed. The Company owns a number of patents and trademarks under the intellectual property laws of the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other countries where product sales are possible. However, the Company has not perfected patent and trademark protection of our proprietary intellectual property for all products in all countries. The decision not to obtain patent and trademark protection in other countries may result in other companies copying and marketing products that are based upon the Company’s proprietary intellectual property. This could impede growth into new markets where the Company does not have such protections and result in a greater supply of similar products in such markets, which in turn could result in a loss of pricing power and reduced revenue for the Company. We are dependent upon key customers. The Company could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers. A significant decrease in capital spending by our railroad customers could negatively impact our product revenue. No assurances can be given that a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a customer, or customers, would not impact our results of operations and/or financial condition. The Company’s CXT concrete rail products division and ARP division are dependent on the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) for a significant portion of their business. An adverse outcome in any pending or future litigation or pending or future warranty claim against the Company or its subsidiaries or our determination that a customer has a substantial product warranty claim could negatively impact our financial results and/or our financial condition. The Company is party from time to time to various legal proceedings. In addition, from time to time our customers assert claims against us relating to the warranties which apply to products we sell. There is the potential that a result materially adverse to us or our subsidiaries in pending or future legal proceedings or pending or future product warranty claims could materially exceed any accruals we have established and adversely affect our financial results and/or financial condition. With respect to product warranty claims, no assurances can be given that our current estimate of the number of defective concrete ties that need to be replaced will not increase and result in our having to take additional charges, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial statements, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. 9 A portion of our sales are derived from our international operations, which exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business on an international level. Doing business outside the United States subjects the Company to various risks, including changing economic, climate and political conditions, work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. Increasing sales to foreign countries exposes the Company to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. The Company has little control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter its business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these possible changes. Certain segments of our business depend on a small number of suppliers. The loss of any such supplier could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. In our rail and piling distributed products businesses, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for key products that we sell to our customers. No assurances can be given that a significant downturn in the business of one or more of these suppliers, a disruption in their manufacturing operations, an unwillingness to continue to sell to us or a disruption in the availability of existing and new piling and rail products would not adversely impact our financial results. Fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of the primary raw materials used in our business could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Most of Foster’s businesses utilize steel as a significant product component. The steel industry is cyclical and prices and availability are subject to these cycles as well as to international market forces. We also use significant amounts of cement and aggregate in our concrete railroad tie and our precast concrete building businesses. No assurances can be given that our financial results would not be adversely affected if prices or availability of these materials were to change in a significantly unfavorable manner. Our joint venture may require us to make future capital commitments that may be burdensome or have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Our joint venture manufactures, markets and sells various precision couplings and other products for the energy, utility and construction markets. Under the JV agreement, we were required to make certain capital contributions. No assurances can be given that additional capital contributions will not be required or that the JV will perform in accordance with our expectations. Labor disputes may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Four of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are staffed by employees represented by labor unions. The approximately 190 employees employed at these facilities are currently working under three separate collective bargaining agreements. These collective bargaining agreements forbid the respective labor organizations from endorsing any work stoppage during the life of the agreements. Future climate change regulation could result in increased operating costs, affecting the demand for our products or the ability of our critical suppliers to meet our needs. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change including pending U.S. legislation that, if enacted, would limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions through a “cap and trade” system of allowances and credits, among other things. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has for the first time required large emitters of greenhouse gases to collect and report data with respect to their greenhouse gas emissions. The potential impact, both positive and negative, of future climate change legislation, regulation and international treaties and accords is uncertain, given that these regulatory mechanisms may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly through our suppliers or customers. 10 Our future performance and market value could cause future write-downs of intangible assets in future periods. The Company is required under generally accepted accounting principles to review its intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered to be a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of the Company’s intangible assets may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, a decline in stock price and market capitalization, a significant decrease in the market value of an asset or a significant decrease in operating or cash flow projections. No assurances can be given that the Company will not be required to record a significant adverse charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or intangible assets occurs. We may not foresee or be able to control certain events that could adversely affect our business. Unexpected events including fires or explosions at our facilities, natural disasters, armed conflicts, unplanned outages, equipment failures, failure to meet product specifications, or a disruption in certain of our operations may cause our operating costs to increase or otherwise impact our financial performance. Shifting federal, state, local and foreign regulatory policies impose risks to our operations. We are subject to regulation from federal, state, local and foreign regulatory agencies. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies. Compliance with emerging regulatory initiatives, delays, discontinuations or reversals of existing regulatory policies in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A substantial portion of our operations are heavily dependent on governmental funding of infrastructure projects. Many of these projects have “Buy America” or “Buy American” provisions. Significant changes in the level of government funding of these projects could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on our operating results. Additionally, government actions concerning “Buy America” provisions, taxation, tariffs, the environment, or other matters could impact our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 