ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks and Uncertainties We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The following risks highlight some of the more significant factors that have affected us and could affect us in the future. We may also be affected by unknown risks or risks that we currently believe are immaterial. If any such events actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. We intend to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances that involve a number of inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits. We evaluate acquisition opportunities that have the potential to support and strengthen our business. We can give no assurances that any opportunities will arise or, if they do, that they will be consummated or that financing will be available. In addition, acquisitions involve inherent risks that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may not be able to achieve the synergies and other benefits we expect from the integration as successfully or rapidly as projected, if at all. Our failure to integrate newly-acquired operations could prevent us from realizing our expected rate of return on an acquired business and could have a material or adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Prolonged unfavorable economic and market conditions could adversely affect our business. We could be adversely impacted by prolonged negative changes in economic conditions affecting either our suppliers or customers as well as the capital markets. Negative changes in government spending may result in delayed or permanent deferrals of existing or potential projects. No assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully mitigate various prolonged uncertainties including materials cost variability, delayed or reduced customer payments and access to available capital resources outside of operations. Our ability to maintain or improve our profitability could be adversely impacted by cost pressures including fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our profitability is dependent upon the efficient use of our resources. Rising inflation, labor costs, labor disruptions and other increases in costs in the geographies where we operate could have a significant adverse impact on our profitability and results of operations. The majority of our products and services are sold in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Fluctuations in the relative values of the United States dollar, Canadian dollar and British pound will require adjustments in reported earnings and operations to reflect exchange rate translation in our Canadian and United Kingdom sales and operations. If the United States dollar strengthens in value as compared to the value of the Canadian dollar or British pound, our reported earnings in dollars from sales in those currencies will be unfavorable. Conversely, a favorable result will be reported if the United States dollar weakens in value as compared to the value of the Canadian dollar or British pound. Our business operates in highly competitive industries and a failure to react to changing market conditions could adversely impact our business. We face strong competition in each of the markets in which we participate. A slow response to competitor pricing actions and new competitor entries into our product lines could negatively impact our overall pricing. Efforts to improve pricing could negatively impact our sales volume in all product categories. We may be required to invest more heavily to maintain and expand our product offerings. There can be no assurance that new product offerings will be widely accepted in the markets we serve. Significant negative developments in any of these areas could adversely affect our financial results and condition. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, our ability to compete may be harmed. We own a number of patents and trademarks under the intellectual property laws of the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other countries where product sales are possible. However, we have not perfected patent and trademark protection of our proprietary intellectual property for all products in all countries. The decision not to obtain patent and trademark protection in other countries may result in other companies copying and marketing products that are based upon our proprietary intellectual property. This could impede growth into new markets where we do not have such protections and result in a greater supply of similar products in such markets, which in turn could result in a loss of pricing power and reduced revenue. We are dependent upon key customers. We could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers. A significant decrease in capital spending by our railroad customers could negatively impact our product revenue. Our CXT concrete rail products division and ARP division are dependent on the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) for a significant portion of their business. No assurances can be given that a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a customer, or customers, would not impact our results of operations and/or financial condition. An adverse outcome in any pending or future litigation or pending or future warranty claim against the Company or its subsidiaries or our determination that a customer has a substantial product warranty claim could negatively impact our financial results and/or our financial condition. From time to time, we are party to various legal proceedings. In addition, from time to time our customers assert claims against us relating to the warranties which apply to products we sell. There is the potential that a result materially adverse to us or our subsidiaries in pending or future legal proceedings or pending or future product warranty claims could materially exceed any accruals we have established and adversely affect our financial results and/or financial condition. With respect to product warranty claims submitted by the UPRR, the UPRR asserted in November 2013 that we were in material breach of our 2012 amended supply agreement with the UPRR due to claimed failures to provide warranty ties to replace alleged defective concrete ties. See “Executive Level Overview” for additional information regarding the UPRR’s warranty claims. No assurances can be given that our current estimate of the number of defective concrete ties that need to be replaced will not increase and result in our having to take additional charges, or that UPRR will not terminate the 2012 amended supply agreement and seek damages, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements, results of operations, liquidity and capital resources. A portion of our sales are derived from our international operations, which exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business on an international level. Doing business outside the United States subjects the Company to various risks, including changing economic, climate and political conditions, work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. Increasing sales to foreign countries exposes the Company to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have little control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter its business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these possible changes. Violations of foreign governmental regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws could result in fines, penalties and criminal sanctions against the Company, its officers or both and could adversely affect our business. Our foreign operations are subject to governmental regulations in the countries in which we operate as well as U.S. laws. These include regulations relating to currency conversion, repatriation of earnings, taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel, and the increasing requirement in some countries to make greater use 10 Table of Contents of local employees and suppliers, including, in some jurisdictions, mandates that provide for greater local participation in the ownership and control of certain local business assets. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar other worldwide anti-corruption laws, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, prohibit improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we have established an internal control structure, corporate policies, compliance and training processes to reduce the risk of violation, we cannot ensure that these procedures will protect us from violations of such policies by our employees or agents. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject us to fines and penalties and suspension or debarment from contracting. Events of non-compliance could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues and profits and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Violations of such laws or allegations of violation could disrupt our business and result in material adverse results to our operating results or future profitability. Certain divisions of our business depend on a small number of suppliers. The loss of any such supplier could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. In our rail and piling distributed products businesses, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for key products that we sell to our customers. No assurances can be given that a significant downturn in the business of one or more of these suppliers, a disruption in their manufacturing operations, an unwillingness to continue to sell to us or a disruption in the availability of existing and new piling and rail products would not adversely impact our financial results. Fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of the primary raw materials used in our business could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Most of our businesses utilize steel as a significant product component. The steel industry is cyclical and prices and availability are subject to these cycles as well as to international market forces. We also use significant amounts of cement and aggregate in our concrete railroad tie and our precast concrete building businesses. No assurances can be given that our financial results would not be adversely affected if prices or availability of these materials were to change in a significantly unfavorable manner. Our joint venture may require us to make future capital commitments that may be burdensome or have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Our joint venture manufactures, markets and sells various precision couplings and other products for the energy, utility and construction markets. Under the JV agreement, we were required to make certain capital contributions. No assurances can be given that additional capital contributions will not be required or that the JV will perform in accordance with our expectations. Labor disputes may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Four of our manufacturing facilities are staffed by employees represented by labor unions. Approximately 160 employees employed at these facilities are currently working under three separate collective bargaining agreements. In October 2010, we negotiated the renewal of the collective bargaining agreement with our Bedford, PA workforce represented by the Shopman’s Local Union Number 527. This agreement, covering approximately 50 employees, expires in March 2014 and will be re-negotiated. In September 2011, we negotiated the renewal of the collective bargaining agreement with our Spokane, WA workforce represented by the United Steelworkers Local Number 338. This agreement, covering approximately 80 employees, expires in September 2014 and will be re-negotiated later this year. The bargaining unit in our St. Jean, Quebec, Canada workforce is represented by the Canadian Steel Workers Union Local Number 9443. This agreement, covering approximately 30 employees, was finalized in November 2013. A five year agreement was ratified that will expire in August 2018. These collective bargaining agreements forbid the respective labor organizations from endorsing any work stoppage during the life of the agreements. 11 Table of Contents Our success is highly dependent on the continued service and availability of qualified personnel. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, the executive team and other highly skilled employees. Changes in demographics, training requirements and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect our ability to compete and lead to a reduction in our profitability. Future climate change regulation could result in increased operating costs, affecting the demand for our products or the ability of our critical suppliers to meet our needs. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change, including pending U.S. legislation that, if enacted, would limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions through a “cap and trade” system of allowances and credits, among other things. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has for the first time required large emitters of greenhouse gases to collect and report data with respect to their greenhouse gas emissions. The potential impact, both positive and negative, of future climate change legislation, regulation and international treaties and accords is uncertain, given that these regulatory mechanisms may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly through our suppliers or customers. Our future performance and market value could cause write-downs of intangible assets in future periods. We are required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to review intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered to be a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, a decline in stock price and market capitalization, a significant decrease in the market value of an asset or a significant decrease in operating or cash flow projections. No assurances can be given that we will not be required to record a significant adverse charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or intangible assets occurs. We may not foresee or be able to control certain events that could adversely affect our business. Unexpected events including fires or explosions at our facilities, natural disasters, armed conflicts, unplanned outages, equipment failures, failure to meet product specifications, or a disruption in certain of our operations may cause our operating costs to increase or otherwise impact our financial performance. Shifting federal, state, local and foreign regulatory policies impose risks to our operations. We are subject to regulation from federal, state, local and foreign regulatory agencies. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies. Compliance with emerging regulatory initiatives, delays, discontinuations or reversals of existing regulatory policies in the markets in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A substantial portion of our operations are heavily dependent on governmental funding of infrastructure projects. Many of these projects have “Buy America” or “Buy American” provisions. Significant changes in the level of government funding of these projects could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on our operating results. Additionally, government actions concerning “Buy America” provisions, taxation, tariffs, the environment, or other matters could impact our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 