ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks and Uncertainties We intend to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances that involve a number of inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits. We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities that have the potential to support and strengthen our business. We can give no assurances that any opportunities will arise or if they do, that they will be consummated or that potential additional financing will be available. In addition, acquisitions involve inherent risks that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may not be able to achieve the synergies and other benefits we expect from the integration as successfully or rapidly as projected, if at all. Our failure to integrate newly acquired operations could prevent us from realizing our expected rate of return on an acquired business and could have a material or adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The integration of our recently completed acquisitions could result in the loss of key employees or other workforce disruptions that may have a material adverse effect on our operations or profitability. It is possible that the Portec merger could result in the loss of key employees, result in the disruption of one or more of its ongoing businesses or identify inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect one or more of its operations’ ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers or creditors. Employee retention before, during or after the combination may be challenging as employees may experience uncertainty about future roles until strategies with regard to the combined company are announced or executed. Prolonged unfavorable economic and market conditions could adversely affect our business. We could be adversely impacted by prolonged negative changes in economic conditions affecting either our suppliers or customers as well as the capital markets. No assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully mitigate various prolonged uncertainties including materials cost variability, delayed or reduced customer payments and access to available capital resources outside of operations. We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of the Company’s products and services are sold in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Fluctuations in the relative values of the United States dollar, Canadian dollar and British pound will require adjustments in reported earnings and operations to reflect exchange rate translation in the Company’s Canadian and United Kingdom sales and operations. If the United States dollar strengthens in value as compared to the value of the Canadian dollar or British pound, the Company’s reported earnings in dollars from sales in those currencies will be unfavorable. Conversely, a favorable result will be reported if the United States dollar weakens in value as compared to the value of the Canadian dollar or British pound. Our business operates in a highly competitive industry. We face strong competition in all of the markets in which we participate. Our response to competitor pricing actions and new competitor entries into our product lines, could negatively impact our overall pricing in the marketplace. Efforts to improve pricing could negatively impact our sales volume in all product categories. Significant negative developments in these areas could adversely affect our financial results and condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, our ability to compete may be harmed. The Company owns a number of patents and trademarks under the intellectual property laws of the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. These patent protections begin expiring in 2014. However, the Company has not perfected patent and trademark protection of our proprietary intellectual property in other countries. The failure to obtain patent and trademark protection in other countries may result in other companies copying and marketing products that are based upon the Company’s proprietary intellectual property. This could impede growth into new markets where the Company does not have such protections and result in greater supplies of similar products, which in turn could result in a loss of pricing power and reduced revenue. 9 Table of Contents We are dependent upon key customers. Foster could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers. No assurances can be given that a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a customer, or customers, would not impact our results of operations and /or financial condition. A significant decrease in capital spending by our railroad customers could negatively impact our product revenue. The Company’s CXT Rail operation and ARP division are dependent on the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) for a significant portion of their business. The CXT Rail operation was awarded a long-term contract in 2005 from the UPRR for the supply of prestressed concrete railroad ties. CXT Rail expanded and modernized its Grand Island, NE plant in 2005, and completed construction of a new facility in Tucson, AZ in 2006 to accommodate the contract’s requirements. UPRR has agreed to purchase minimum annual quantities from the Tucson, AZ facility through December 2012. In December 2010, the UPRR opted not to extend the supply agreement for the Grand Island, NE plant. A substantial portion of our operations are heavily dependent on governmental funding of infrastructure projects. Many of these projects have “Buy America” or “Buy American” provisions. Significant changes in the level of government funding of these projects could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on our operating results. Additionally, government actions concerning “Buy America” provisions, taxation, tariffs, the environment, or other matters could impact our operating results. A growing portion of our sales may be derived from our international operations, which exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business on an international level. Historically, substantially all of the Company’s business has been conducted in the United States. With the Company’s acquisition of Portec, the Company will be expanding into international markets, primarily Canada and the United Kingdom. Additionally, the Company is placing increased emphasis on the expansion of our international sales opportunities. Doing business outside the United States subjects the Company to various risks, including changing economic, climate and political conditions, work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. Increasing sales to foreign countries will expose the Company to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. The Company has little control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter its business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these possible changes. Certain segments of our business depend on a small number of suppliers, the loss of any such supplier could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. In our rail and piling distributed products businesses, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for key products that we sell to our customers. No assurances can be given that a significant downturn in the business of one of these suppliers, a disruption in their manufacturing operations, an unwillingness to continue to sell to us or a disruption in the availability of existing and new piling and rail products would not adversely impact our financial results. Fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of our primary raw materials used in our business could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Most of Foster’s businesses utilize steel as a significant product component. The steel industry is cyclical and prices and availability are subject to these cycles as well as to international market forces. We also use significant amounts of cement and aggregate in our concrete railroad tie and our precast concrete building businesses. Cement and aggregate prices are subject to market conditions but this has not yet had a significant impact on the Company. No assurances can be given that our financial results would not be adversely affected if prices or availability of these materials were to change in a significantly unfavorable manner. 10 Table of Contents Our joint venture may require us to meet future capital commitments that may be burdensome or have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. We have a joint venture with L B Industries, Inc. and another party to manufacture, market and sell various products for the energy, utility and construction markets. In connection with the joint venture agreement, we were required to make capital contributions of $2.2 million, which the Company met in 2010. No assurances can be given that additional capital contributions will not be required or that the joint venture will perform in accordance with our expectations. Labor disputes may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Four of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are staffed by employees represented by labor unions. These 163 employees are currently working under three separate collective bargaining agreements. In October 2007, we negotiated the renewal of the collective bargaining agreement with our Spokane, WA workforce represented by the United Steelworkers Local Number 338. This agreement, covering approximately 80 employees, expires in September 2011. In October 2010, we negotiated the renewal of the collective bargaining agreement with our Bedford, PA workforce represented by the Shopman’s Local Union Number 527. This agreement, covering approximately 50 employees, expires in March 2014. The collective bargaining agreement with our St. Jean, Quebec, Canada workforce is represented by the Canadian Steel Workers Union Local Number 9443. This agreement, covering approximately 30 employees, expires in August 2013. The existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a work stoppage at L. B. Foster’s facilities. An adverse outcome in any pending or future litigation could negatively impact our operations and profitability. Changes in our expectations of the outcome of certain legal actions could vary materially from our current expectations and adversely affect our financial results and/or financial condition. We may not be able to collect future contingent payments in connection with the sale of our investment in DM&E. As part of the 2007 sale of our investment in the Dakota, Minnesota and Eastern Railroad (DM&E) to the Canadian Pacific Railway Limited (CP), we received the right to future contingent payments based on (i) construction commencing on the Powder River Basin Expansion Project (PRB) and (ii) certain PRB tonnage thresholds being surpassed. The CP is obligated to pay the DM&E’s former equity holders an aggregate of $350.0 million, plus interest at 5% per annum, if the CP commences construction of the PRB expansion prior to December 31, 2025. Additionally, CP shall cause the former equity holders to receive certain payments not to exceed $707.0 million if the CP attains milestones, as set forth in the sales agreement, related to PRB coal tonnage thresholds prior to December 31, 2025. Our share of any of this construction milestone payment or individual future coal milestone payments, if any such payments are made, prior to expenses and any offsets, is approximately 12¼%. No assurances can be given that any of these payments will be made and the Company does not know whether the CP will construct the PRB expansion. 11 Table of Contents Future climate change regulation could result in increased operating costs, affecting the demand for our products or affect the ability of our critical suppliers to meet our needs. In February 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission published guidance regarding its existing disclosure requirements as they apply to climate change matters. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change including pending U.S. legislation that, if enacted, would limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions through a “cap and trade” system of allowances and credits, among other provisions. In addition, the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency has for the first time required large emitters of greenhouse gases to collect and report data with respect to their greenhouse gas emissions. Assessments of the potential impact, both positive or negative, of future climate change legislation, regulation and international treaties and accords are uncertain, given that these regulatory mechanisms may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly through our suppliers or customers. Our future performance and market value could cause future write-downs of intangible assets in future periods. The Company is required under generally accepted accounting principles to review its intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered to be a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of the Company’s intangible assets may not be recoverable include, but are not limited to, a decline in stock price and market capitalization, a significant decrease in the market value of an asset or a significant decrease in operating or cash flow projections. No assurances can be given that the Company will not be required to record a significant, adverse charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or intangible assets occurs. We may not foresee or be able to control certain events that could adversely affect our business. Unexpected events including fires or explosions at facilities, natural disasters, war, unplanned outages, equipment failures, failure to meet product specifications, or a disruption in certain of our operations may cause our operating costs to increase or otherwise impact our financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 