ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements We make forward looking statements in this report based upon management’s understanding of our business and markets and on information currently available to us. Such statements include information regarding future events and expectations and frequently include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” or other similar expressions. Forward looking statements include known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ greatly from these statements and expectations that we express in this report. We encourage all readers to carefully consider the Risk Factors below and all the information presented in our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and caution you not to rely unduly on any forward looking statements. 5 Table of Contents The forward looking statements in this report are made as of the date of this report and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Risks and Uncertainties General Economic Conditions We could be adversely impacted by prolonged negative changes in economic conditions affecting either our suppliers or customers as well as the capital markets. No assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully mitigate various prolonged uncertainties including materials cost variability, delayed or reduced customer payments and access to available capital resources outside of operations. Markets and Competition We face strong competition in all of the markets in which we participate. Our response to competitor pricing actions and new competitor entries into our product lines, could negatively impact our overall pricing in the marketplace. Efforts to improve pricing could negatively impact our sales volume in all product categories. Significant negative developments in these areas could adversely affect our financial results and condition. Customer Reliance Foster could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of a customer or customers. No assurances can be given that a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of a customer, or customers, would not impact our results of operations and /or financial condition. A significant decrease in capital spending by our railroad customers could negatively impact our product revenue. The Company’s CXT Rail operation and Allegheny Rail Products division are dependent on the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) for a significant portion of their business. The CXT Rail operation was awarded a long-term contract from the UPRR for the supply of prestressed concrete railroad ties. CXT Rail expanded and modernized its Grand Island, NE plant in 2005, and completed construction of a new facility in Tucson, AZ in 2006 to accommodate the contract’s requirements. UPRR has agreed to purchase minimum annual quantities from the Grand Island, NE facility through December 2010, and the Tucson, AZ facility through December 2012. A substantial portion of our operations are heavily dependent on governmental funding of infrastructure projects. Many of these projects have “Buy America” or “Buy American” provisions. Significant changes in the level of government funding of these projects could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on our operating results. Additionally, government actions concerning “Buy America” provisions, taxation, tariffs, the environment, or other matters could impact our operating results. Supplier Reliance In our rail and piling distributed products businesses, we rely on one or two suppliers for key products that we sell to our customers. No assurances can be given that a significant downturn in the business of one of these suppliers, a disruption in their manufacturing operations, an unwillingness to continue to sell to us or a disruption in the availability of existing and new piling and rail products would not adversely impact our financial results. A significant portion of our Construction segment net sales and profits are related to the purchase and resale of piling products. Our primary supplier relationship with Gerdau Ameristeel Corporation remains intact. However, no assurances can be given and if we are unable to continue to distribute the products of Gerdau Ameristeel Corporation, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. Raw Material Costs and Availability Most of Foster’s businesses utilize steel as a significant product component. The steel industry is cyclical and prices as well as availability are subject to international market forces. We also use significant amounts of cement and aggregate in our concrete railroad tie and our precast concrete building businesses. Cement and aggregate prices 6 Table of Contents have been increasing over recent years. This has not yet had a significant impact on the Company. No assurances can be given that our financial results would not be adversely affected if prices or availability of these materials were to change in a significantly unfavorable manner. Acquisition Growth Strategy We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities that have the potential to support and strengthen our business. We can give no assurances that any opportunity will arise or if they do, that they will be consummated or that potential additional financing will be available. In addition, acquisitions involve inherent risks that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may not be able to achieve the synergies and other benefits we expect from the integration as successfully or rapidly as projected, if at all. Our failure to integrate newly acquired operations could prevent us from realizing our expected rate of return on an acquired business and could have a material or adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Union Workforce and Labor Relations Three of the Company’s manufacturing facilities are staffed by employees represented by labor unions. These 135 employees are currently working under two separate collective bargaining agreements. In October 2007, we negotiated the renewal of the collective bargaining agreement with our Spokane, WA workforce represented by the United Steelworkers Local Number 338. This agreement, covering approximately 110 employees, expires in September 2011. In March 2008, we negotiated the renewal of the collective bargaining agreement with our Bedford, PA workforce represented by the Shopman’s Local Union Number 527. This agreement, covering approximately 30 employees, expires in March 2011. Additionally, the existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a work stoppage at L. B. Foster’s facilities. Legal Contingencies Changes in our expectations of the outcome of certain legal actions could vary materially from our current expectations and adversely affect our financial results and/or financial condition. DM&E Contingent Payments As part of the 2007 sale of our investment in the Dakota, Minnesota and Eastern Railroad (DM&E) to the Canadian Pacific Railway Limited (CP), we exchanged our investment in the common stock and warrants for future contingent payments based on (i) construction commencing on the Powder River Basin Expansion Project (PRB) and (ii) certain PRB tonnage thresholds being surpassed. The CP is obligated to pay the DM&E’s former equity holders an aggregate of $350.0 million, plus interest at 5% per annum, if the CP commences construction of the PRB expansion prior to December 31, 2025. Additionally, CP shall cause the equity holders to receive certain payments not to exceed $707.0 million if the CP attains milestones, as set forth in the sales agreement, related to PRB coal tonnage thresholds prior to December 31, 2025. Our share of any of this construction milestone payment or individual future coal milestone payments, if any such payments are made, prior to expenses and any offsets, is approximately 121/4%. No assurances can be given that any of these payments will be made and the CP has stated that it may take several years for it to determine whether to construct the PRB expansion. For more information regarding the sale of our investment in the DM&E, please see our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. 7 Table of Contents Unexpected Events Unexpected events including fires or explosions at facilities, natural disasters, war, unplanned outages, equipment failures, failure to meet product specifications, or a disruption in certain of our operations may cause our operating costs to increase or otherwise impact our financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 