RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Comtex News Network, Inc. and our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our financial condition, operating results and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected due to any of these risks, in which case you could lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information in this and our other public filings, including our financial statements and notes thereto. We Are Dependent On Cash Reserves and a Bank Financing Agreement Currently we are generating positive cash flows from operations as we did for the year ended June 30, 2006 but our revenue base has been declining. Our ability to meet our liquidity needs on a long-term basis depends on our ability to generate sufficient revenues and cash to cover our current obligations and to pay down our long-term obligations. No assurance may be given that we will be able to maintain the revenue base or the size of profitable operations that may be necessary to achieve our long-term liquidity needs. 8 We Depend On The Continued Growth In The Use Of The Internet, Particularly For News and Financial Information Our business depends on businesses and individual consumers continuing to increase their use of the Internet for obtaining news and financial information. Internet usage may be inhibited for a number of reasons, including inadequate network infrastructure; security concerns; inconsistent quality of service; and availability of cost-effective, high-speed service. Because the market for our products is consolidating and is in flux, it is difficult to predict with any certainty the growth rate, if any, and the ultimate size of our markets. If the market fails to continue to develop, develops more slowly than expected or becomes saturated with competitors; if our services do not maintain significant market acceptance; if our customers’ business models are not successful; or if pricing becomes subject to considerable competitive pressures; our business operations and financial condition would be materially, adversely affected. We Face Intense Competition That Could Impede Our Ability To Grow and Maintain Profitability. The business information services industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change and entry into the field by large and well-capitalized companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Our competitors include Internet-focused aggregators and distributors of content, individual national and international electronic news and information services, and traditional content providers seeking new markets for their content or seeking direct relationships with distributors. We expect competition to continue to increase as the market for content aggregation increases, as current competitors improve their offerings, as new competitors attempt to enter the market, and as traditional content providers seek new markets for their content and direct relationships with distributors. While we believe our continued investment in content, new products and technology, as well as the expansion of our distributor partnerships will continue to favorably position us in the market, it is possible that our competitors may acquire significant market share and we may not be able to retain our customers. Furthermore, increased competition on the basis of price, delivery systems or otherwise, may require us to implement price reductions or increase our spending on marketing or software development, which could have a material, adverse effect on our business and operating results. If We Are Unable To Maintain Our Reputation and Expand Our Name Recognition, We May Have Difficulty Attracting New Business and Retaining Current Customers and Employees We believe that establishing and maintaining a good reputation and name recognition are critical for attracting and retaining customers and employees. If our reputation is damaged or if potential customers are not familiar with us, we may be unable to attract new, or retain existing customers and employees. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide effective services. If customers do not perceive our services to be effective or of high quality, our brand name and reputation will suffer. Some Customers Pose Credit Risks With some customers, we have experienced difficulties collecting accounts receivable. In addition, we lost some customers directly due to the failure of their business models to sustain operations. We may continue to encounter these difficulties in the future. If any significant part of our customer base continues to experience economic difficulties or is unable to pay our fees, for any reason, our business would be materially, adversely affected. 9 Unauthorized Break-Ins To Our Systems Could Harm Our Business Although we have implemented strict security policies and perimeter defenses, our computer and telecommunications systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions in, delays in or loss of data. In addition, unauthorized persons may improperly access our data. Any intrusions may harm us and may be very expensive to remedy, could damage our reputation, and discourage new and existing customers from using our service. If Equipment Failures Interrupt The Distribution Of Content To Our Customers, We Could Lose Customers and Our Reputation May Be Adversely Affected We rely on third-party telecommunications networks for the distribution of our content. Any failure of these networks could interrupt or delay our service, which could lead to customers canceling contracts, could damage our reputation, and impact our ability to attract additional customers. Substantially all of our computer and communications hardware resides in three locations: Alexandria and Ashburn, Virginia and Andover, Massachusetts. Although hardware configurations/locations and software systems are designed to be fault tolerant and to facilitate any disaster recovery, any catastrophic disaster, power outage or system failure that causes interruptions in our ability to provide continuing service to our customers could reduce our revenues due to customer satisfaction and impair our ability to attract additional customers. Losing Major Content Providers May Leave Us With Insufficient Breadth Of Content To Retain and Attract Customers We do not generate original content and therefore are highly dependent upon third-party content providers. If we were to lose one of our major content providers and were not able to obtain similar content from another source, our services would be less attractive to customers. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to license content from our current or new providers on favorable terms in the future, if at all. Our Dependence On Key Personnel Our future success may depend on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our personnel. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate other highly skilled employees. Companies in our industry compete intensely to hire and retain qualified personnel and if we are not able to attract the employees we need or retain the services of those we have hired, our business operations could be materially, adversely affected. Our Common Stock Price Is Volatile, Fluctuates Significantly and Trades on a Sporadic Basis The trading price of our Common Stock has been, and probably will continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations and limited trading volume. The shares are traded on the OTCBB. The stock is not followed by any security analysts and has a limited and unpredictable number of market makers. During fiscal year 2006, the closing prices of our Common Stock ranged from $0.17 to $0.95. In addition to the foregoing, the stock price may also fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as the following: · quarterly variations in operating results · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors 10 · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable · news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. Potential Acquisitions, Mergers and/or Strategic Investments May Result In Increased Expenses, Difficulties In Integrating Target Companies and Diversion Of Management’s Attention We anticipate that from time to time, we may consider acquisitions of assets or businesses that we believe may enable us to obtain complementary skills and capabilities, offer new services, expand our customer base or obtain other competitive advantages. Growth through acquisitions and/or mergers involves potential risks, including, but not limited to, the following: · diversion of management’s attention during the acquisition/merger process · costs, delays and difficulties of integrating the acquired company’s operations, technology and personnel into our operations · adverse affect on earnings due to amortizing any intangible assets acquired · issuance of new equity securities that dilute the holdings of existing stockholders · uncertainty of working with new employees and customers. Our Executive Officers, Directors And 5% Or Greater Stockholders Significantly Influence All Matters Requiring Stockholder Vote Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our executive officers and directors are able to significantly influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant transactions. This concentration of ownership could delay, deter or prevent a change of control and could adversely affect the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We Have No Intention To Pay Dividends We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 