ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our current business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. We face intense competition in the consumer products business. Our business competes with large, well-financed cosmetic, pharmaceutical and consumer products companies with development and marketing groups that are experienced in the industry and possess far greater resources than those available to us. There is no assurance that our products can compete successfully against our competitors’ products or that we can develop and market new products that will be favorably received in the marketplace. In addition, certain of our customers that use our Novasome® lipid vesicles in their products may decide to reduce their purchases from us or shift their business to other technologies. Rapidly changing technologies and developments by our competitors may make our technologies and products obsolete. We expect to sublicense our technologies to third parties, which would manufacture and market products incorporating these technologies. However, if our competitors develop new and improved technologies that are superior to our technologies, our technologies could be less acceptable in the marketplace and our business could be harmed. 3 We will need to raise additional capital that will be required to operate and grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Operating our business and maintaining our growth efforts will require additional cash outlays and capital expenditures. If cash on hand and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the current price per share of our common stock. The holders of new securities may also have rights, preferences or privileges which are senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If new sources of financing are required, but are insufficient or unavailable, we will be required to modify our growth and operating plans based on available funding, if an y, which would harm our ability to grow our business or even stay in business. We rely on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our revenues. We depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, four of our customers accounted for 54% of our revenue in 2008 and three of our customers accounted for 43% of our revenue in 2007. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a significant impact on our revenues and harm our business and results of operations. We face increased financial risk from the inaccurate pricing of our agreements. Since our product development agreements are often structured as fixed price agreements, we bear the financial risk if we initially under price our agreements or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. Such under pricing or significant cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to stringent regulatory requirements. Failure to adhere to such requirements could harm our business and results of operations. In the United States, pharmaceuticals are subject to rigorous Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations. Any non-compliance with the regulatory guidelines may necessitate corrective action that may result in additional expenses and use of more of our resources. We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other present and potential future federal, state or local regulations. Failure to adhere to such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, our analytical department uses certain hazardous materials and chemicals in limited and controlled quantities. We have implemented safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials, however, such procedures may not comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations. Even if we follow such safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials and chemicals and such procedures comply with applicable law, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages and any such liability could exc eed our resources. The failure to obtain, maintain or protect patents and other intellectual property could impact our ability to compete effectively. To compete effectively, we need to develop and maintain a proprietary position with regard to our own technology, products and business. We have obtained or have the use of over 50 patents, either through development by us or entry into license agreements with third parties, and are seeking to develop additional patents. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: • the pending patent applications we have filed or may file, or to which we have exclusive rights, may not result in issued patents, or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; • changes in U.S. patent laws may adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain our patent protection; • we may be subject to interference proceedings; • the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; • we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us or our collaborators may not provide a competitive advantage; • other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us or our collaborators; • other companies may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, or duplicate our technology; 4 • other companies may design around technologies we have licensed or developed; and • enforcement of patents is complex, uncertain and expensive. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any future pending applications, and we cannot be certain that any of our issued patents or the proprietary rights of third parties whose patents we license, will give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged, declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope. In addition, since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make our inventions or to file patent applications covering those inventions. In the event that another party has also filed a patent application relating to an invention claimed by us, we may be required to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial uncertainties and costs for us, even if the eventual outcome w ere favorable to us. It is also possible that others may obtain issued patents that could prevent us from commercializing our products or require us to obtain licenses requiring the payment of significant fees or royalties in order to enable us to conduct our business. As to those patents that we have licensed, our rights depend on maintaining our obligations to the licensor under the applicable license agreement, and we may be unable to do so. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding relating to our patents or applications, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Our ability to enforce our patent protection could be limited by our financial resources, and may be subject to lengthy delays. If we are unable to effectively enforce our proprietary rights, or if we are found to infringe the rights of others, we may be in breach of our license agreements with our partners. In addition to patents and patent applications, we depend upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our proprietary technology. We require our employees, consultants, advisors, and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to any other parties. We require our employees and consultants to disclose and assign to us their ideas, developments, discoveries, and inventions. These agreements may not, however, provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Economic conditions could severely impact us. Current economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our operating results are impacted by the health of the North American economies. Our business and financial performance, including collection of our accounts receivable, realization of inventory, recoverability of assets including investments, may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions, such as a reduction in the availability of credit, financial market volatility and recession. Adverse conditions in the economy and disruption of financial markets could negatively impact our customers and therefore our results of operations. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Additionally, economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers causing them to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of product components, thereby impairing our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. If the U.S. economy rapidly contracts or expands, we may have difficulty quickly scaling our operations in response, which may negatively impact our business and financial position. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in nonclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing, sales and marketing and finance. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous pharmaceutical and consumer products companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. 5 We have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will become profitable, and as a result, we may have to cease operations and liquidate our business. Our expenses have exceeded our revenue in each of the last five years, and no net income has been available to common shareholders during each of these years. As of December 31, 2008, our shareholders’ equity was $3 million and we had an accumulated deficit of $24.4 million. Our future profitability depends on revenue exceeding expenses, but we cannot assure you that this will occur. If we do not become profitable, we could be forced to curtail operations and sell or liquidate our business, and you could lose some or all of your investment. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, our business results of operations and financial condition, and investors' confidence in us, could be materially adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, we are required under applicable law and regulations to integrate our systems of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Our management assessed our existing disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2008, and our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2008 due to the material weakness described below in Item 9A(T). – “Controls and Procedures” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Securities Our principal stockholders, directors and executive officers own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over our affairs. Our current principal stockholders, directors and executive officers beneficially own more than 67.8% of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote, and if stockholders approve the private placement with Signet Healthcare Partners discussed in footnote 17. below. Then such ownership will increase to 80.3% of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price is, and we expect it to remain, volatile, which could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit. During the last two fiscal years, our stock price has traded at a low of $.48 in the fourth quarter of 2008 to a high of $2.57 in the second quarter of 2008. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock. These include, but are not limited to: • publicity regarding actual or potential clinical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; • delay or failure in initiating, completing or analyzing nonclinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials; • achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • developments concerning our collaborations; 6 • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • economic or other crises, especially given the recent financial deterioration in the markets in which we compete, and other external factors; • stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the cosmetic, pharmaceutical and consumer products industry; • actual or anticipated sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; • period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; • speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; and • sales of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation, even if it does not result in liability for us, could result in substantial costs to us and divert management’s attention and resources. Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid which may affect the trading price of our common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the NYSE Alternext was approximately 10,625 shares. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. If we fail to meet the continued listing standards of the NYSE Alternext our common stock could be delisted and our stock price could suffer. On May 6, 2008, we were notified by NYSE Alternext that we were below certain of the NYSE Alternext continued listing standards. Specifically, we are required to reflect income from continuing operations and/or net income in one of our five most recent fiscal years and a minimum of $6 million in stockholders’ equity to remain listed on the exchange. We had net income from continuing operations in our 2002 fiscal year, but had net losses and losses from continuing operations in each of our 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 fiscal years. Our stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2008 was $3.0 million. On July 15, 2008, NYSE Alternext notified us that it accepted our plan of compliance and granted us an extension until May 6, 2009 to regain compliance with the continued listing standards described above. We will be subject to periodic review by NYSE Alternext Staff during the extension period. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the extension period could result in our being delisted from NYSE Alternext. We could be required to repay our debt obligations relating to the Promissory Notes and we may not become compliant with the NYSE Alternext listing requirements if we fail to obtain stockholder approval of our March 2009 private placement transaction, which could affect our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. If we do not obtain stockholder approval of our March 2009 private placement transaction with affiliates of Signet Healthcare Partners, the Promissory Notes issued to certain affiliates of Signet Healthcare Partners in connection with the private placement transaction will become due and payable on July 31, 2009 and our liquidity, financial position and results of operations will be negatively affected. Further, if we do not receive stockholder approval of the private placement, we may not increase our stockholder equity to thresholds required by the NYSE Alternext listing requirements, which could result from our being delisted from the NYSE Alternext. See—“If we fail to meet the continued listing standards of the NYSE Alternext US our common stock could be delisted and our stock price could suffer,” above. In connection with the private placement transaction, certain holders of our capital stock, representing approximately 51.7% of the voting power of the outstanding sh ares of capital stock entitled to vote on the private placement transaction (or who represent approximately 44.2% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote in the private placement transaction if one of our interested stockholders is not able to vote with respect to such matter pursuant to the rules and regulations of the NYSE Alternext as a result of the existence of a transaction relating to the private placement), entered into a voting agreement, pursuant to which these holders agreed to vote or execute and deliver a written consent in favor of approving the private placement transaction. 7 If the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, options and warrants to purchase common stock exercise their conversion rights, our common stock will be diluted. We have Series A Preferred Stock outstanding, Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding, outstanding options and warrants to purchase common stock, and outstanding Notes, which are convertible into shares of Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock upon stockholder approval of the Private Placement. If all or any number of these holders of derivative securities were to exercise their conversion rights, our common stock would be substantially diluted, which could negatively impact our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 