ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Specific to Our Company THE POTENTIAL PROFITABILITY OF COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE VENTURES DEPENDS UPON FACTORS BEYOND THE CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY. The potential profitability of commercial real estate properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for rents and leases of commercial properties are unpredictable, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social, and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for maintenance, repair, expansion and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events may materially affect our financial performance. These factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in our Company not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FOREIGN CURRENCY ANV is a Danish company with operations only in Denmark. During the year ended June 30, 2008 and 2009, foreign revenues accounted for 100% of our total revenue. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with generating revenue in multiple countries, including: · increased time, effort and attention of our management to manage our foreign operations; · balance sheet flucuations. · currency devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including impacts of transactions in various currencies and translation of various currencies into dollars for U.S. reporting and financial covenant compliance purposes; · language barriers and other difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the protection of property; · imposition of or increases in currency exchange controls, including imposition of or increases in limitations on conversion of various currencies into U.S. dollars; · imposition of or increases in revenue, income or earnings taxes and withholding and other taxes; · imposition of or increases in investment or trade restrictions and other restrictions or requirements by non-U.S. Governments; · inability to definitively determine or satisfy legal requirements, inability to effectively enforce contract or legal rights and inability to obtain complete financial or other information under local legal, judicial, regulatory, disclosure and other systems; and · nationalization and other risks, which could result from a change in government or other political, social or economic instability. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OPERATIONS THAT HAVE A CONCENTRATION OF CUSTOMERS ANV has only one customer. There is no guarantee that this customer will remain solvent, and or continue with the Copmany in the same manner as it is now. As such, if the Company were to loose this customer, 100% of its revenues would be lost. IN THE FUTURE, WE MAY NEED TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS AND TO ACQUIRE ADDITIONAL BUSINESSES In the future, we may need to obtain additional financing to fund our operations and to acquire additional businesses. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise additional capital. EFFORTS TO COMPLY WITH RECENTLY ENACTED CHANGES IN SECURITIES LAWS AND REGULATIONS HAVE REQUIRED SUBSTANTIAL FINANCIAL AND PERSONNEL RESOURCES AND WE STILL MAY FAIL TO COMPLY Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on our internal controls over consolidated financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our consolidated financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of, and the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement was to first apply for management’s assessment in our annual report on Form 10-KSB for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2008, and for the independent registered public accounting firm’s assessment for fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Depending on a number of variables and the significant resources required to comply, uncertainty exists regarding our ability to continue to comply with these rules. Pursuant to interactive data rules adopted in Securities Act Release No. 9002 (Jan. 30, 2009) and further accepted, there is uncertainty whether the Company will be able to comply with the stated rules as they are phased in and if the Company is able to initially comply, whether the Company will continue to be able to do so . PROVISIONS OF OUR CORPORATE DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE CORPORATE LAW MAY DETER A THIRD PARTY FROM ACQUIRING OUR COMPANY Return to Table of Contents 8 Provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws, authorize our Board of Directors to, among other things, issue preferred stock and fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without any further vote, approval or action by our stockholders. Our Board could take actions that could discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us and that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our Board could take such actions even if our stockholders consider a change in control to be in their best interests. WE PLAN TO GROW OUR BUSINESS THROUGH ACQUISITIONS AND JOINT VENTURES, WHICH WILL RESULT IN OUR INCURRING SIGNIFICANT COSTS The acquisition of new businesses is costly, such new businesses may not enhance our financial condition, and we may face difficulties and be unsuccessful in integrating new businesses. The resources expended in identifying, negotiating and structuring acquisitions and joint ventures may be significant and may not result in any transactions. Any future acquisitions will be subject to a number of challenges in integrating new operations into our existing operations, including but not limited to: · diversion of management time and resources; · difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; · potential disruption of our ongoing business; · difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; and · potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses Risks Specific to Our Industry WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED GLOBAL DECLINE IN REAL ESTATE ANV, the Company's subsidiary has only one commercial real estate property. There is no guarantee that the demand for rental of this property will continue and potentially this would affect the Company's performance. Risks Related to Our Securities OUR COMMON STOCK IS SUBJECT TO THE “PENNY STOCK” RULES OF THE SEC AND THE TRADING MARKET IN OUR SECURITIES IS LIMITED, WHICH MAKES TRANSACTIONS IN OUR STOCK CUMBERSOME AND MAY REDUCE THE VALUE OF AN INVESTMENT IN OUR STOCK. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are none. Return to Table of Contents 9 