Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K when evaluating our business and financial condition. Although the risks described below are risks that we face in our business that we believe are material, there may also be risks of which we are currently unaware or that we may view as immaterial based on the information currently available to us that may prove to be material in the future. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, such developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our business is dependent on obtaining work through a competitive bidding process. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Most of our products and services, including the Insituform® CIPP process, face direct competition from companies offering similar or essentially equivalent products or services. In addition, customers can select a variety of methods to meet their pipe installation and rehabilitation needs, including a number of methods that we do not offer. Competition also places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue in these markets, and we face challenges in our ability to maintain strong growth rates. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our profits. We may experience cost overruns on our projects. We typically conduct our business under guaranteed maximum price or fixed price contracts, where we bear a significant portion of the risk for cost overruns. Under such contracts, prices are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates, which are based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions, prices and availability of materials and other exigencies. Our profitability depends heavily on our ability to make accurate estimates. Inaccurate estimates, or changes in other circumstances, such as unanticipated technical problems, difficulties obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, cost of raw materials or our suppliers or subcontractors’ inability to perform could result in substantial losses, as such changes adversely affect the revenue and gross profit recognized on each project. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded results. We employ the percentage-of-completion method of accounting for our construction projects. This methodology recognizes revenues and profits over the life of a project based on costs incurred to date compared to total estimated project costs. Revisions to revenues and profits are made once amounts are known and/or can be reasonably estimated. On a historical basis, we believe that 9 we have made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion in our long-term contracts. However, given the uncertainties associated with some of our contracts, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimated amounts previously made. The effect of revisions to estimates could result in the reversal of revenue and gross profit previously recognized. Our success and growth strategy depends on our senior management and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We depend on our senior management for the success and future growth of the operations and revenues of our Company, and the loss of any member of our senior management could have an adverse impact on our operations. Such a transition may be a distraction to senior management as we search for a qualified replacement, could result in significant recruiting, relocation, training and other costs and could cause operational inefficiencies as a replacement becomes familiar with our business and operations. On August 13, 2007, our former Chief Executive Officer resigned, and the Chairman of our Board of Directors, Alfred L. Woods, assumed the role of Interim Chief Executive Officer. There can be no assurance that a new Chief Executive Officer will be successful in integrating with our other members of senior management or executing our existing growth strategy. In addition, we use a multi-level sales force structured around target markets and key accounts, focusing on engineers, consultants, administrators, technical staff and elected officials to market our products and services; we are dependent on our personnel to continue to develop improvements to our proprietary processes, including materials used and the methods of manufacturing and installation; and we require quality field personnel to effectively and profitably perform our work. Our success in attracting and retaining qualified personnel is dependent on the resources available in individual geographic areas and the impact on the labor supply of general economic conditions, as well as our ability to provide a competitive compensation package and work environment. Our failure to attract, train, integrate and retain qualified personnel could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our recognition of revenues from insurance claims and from change orders, extra work or variations in the scope of work could be subject to reversal in future periods. We recognize revenues from insurance claims and from change orders, extra work or variations in the scope of work as set forth in our written contracts with our client when management believes that realization of these revenues are probable and the recoverable amounts can be reasonably estimated. Prior to our decision to recognize these revenues, we consult with legal counsel to determine the likelihood of recovery and the amount of the recovery that can be estimated. We also factor in all other information that we possess with respect to the claim to determine whether the claim should be recognized at all and, if recognition is appropriate, what dollar amount of the claim should be recognized. On this basis, we believe that we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of amounts of revenue to be recognized. Due to factors that we did not anticipate at the time of recognition, however, revenues ultimately received on these claims could be less than revenues recognized by us in a prior reporting period or periods, resulting in the need in subsequent reporting periods to reduce or reverse revenues and gross profit previously recognized. Extreme weather conditions may adversely affect our operations. We are likely to be impacted by weather extremes, such as excessive rain or hurricanes, which may cause temporary, short-term anomalies in our operational performance in certain localized geographic regions. Historically, these impacts have not been material to our operations as a whole. However, delays and other weather impacts can adversely affect our ability to meet project deadlines and may increase a project’s cost and decrease its profitability. We may be liable to complete work under our joint venture arrangements. We enter into contractual joint ventures in order to develop joint bids on certain contracts. The success of these joint ventures depends largely on the satisfactory performance of our joint venture partners of their obligations under the joint venture. Under these joint venture arrangements, we may be required to complete our joint venture partner’s portion of the contract if the partner is unable to complete its portion and a bond is not available. In such case, the additional obligations could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture. A substantial portion of our raw materials is from a limited number of vendors, and we are subject to market fluctuations of certain commodities. We purchase the majority of our fiber requirements for tube manufacturing from one source. However, we believe that alternate sources are readily available, and we continue to negotiate with other supply sources. The manufacture of the tubes used in our rehabilitation business is dependent upon the availability of resin, a petroleum-based product. We currently have qualified four resin suppliers from which we intend to purchase the majority of our resin requirements for our North American operations. We also are in the process of qualifying multiple resin vendors for our European operations. We believe that these and other sources of 10 resin supply are readily available. Historically, resin prices have fluctuated on the basis of the prevailing prices of oil, and we anticipate that prices will continue to be heavily influenced by the events affecting the oil market. In addition, we purchase a significant volume of fuel to operate our trucks and equipment. At present, we do not engage in any type of hedging activities to mitigate the risks of fluctuating market prices for oil or fuel. A significant increase in the price of oil could cause an adverse effect on our cost structure that we may not be able to recover from our customers. Our intellectual property may be successfully challenged. Our business could be adversely affected by increased competition upon expiration of our patents or if one or more of our Insituform® CIPP process patents were adjudicated to be invalid or inadequate in scope to protect our operations. We believe in either case that our long experience with the Insituform® CIPP process, our continued commitment to support and develop the Insituform® CIPP process, the strength of our trademark and our degree of market penetration should enable us to continue to compete effectively in the pipeline rehabilitation market. We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants under our senior notes and line of credit facility. At December 31, 2007, we had $65.0 million in senior notes outstanding due April 2013. We also have a $35.0 million credit facility of which we had no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 2007. Our senior notes and our line of credit facility contain certain restrictive debt covenants and other customary events of default. These covenants limit the amount and type of debt and fixed charges as a measure of operating cash flow. Our ability to meet these restrictive covenants may be affected by the factors described in this “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other factors outside our control. Failure to meet one or more of these restrictive covenants may result in an event of default. Upon an event of default, if not waived by our lenders, our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable. In the past, we have not been in compliance with certain of these restrictive covenants and have had to seek amendments or waivers from our lenders. If we are unable to comply with the restrictive covenants in the future, we would be required to obtain further modifications from our lenders or secure another source of financing. If an acceleration by our current lenders occurs, we may not have sufficient capital available at that time to pay the amounts due to our lenders on a timely basis. In addition, these restrictive covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions and taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. Our senior notes can be repaid at any time at par value plus a make-whole payment. The make-whole payment is calculated as the present value of the principal and remaining interest payments discounted at a reinvestment rate equal to the United States Treasury equal to the average life to maturity plus 50 basis points. At February 29, 2008, this make-whole payment would have approximated $11.5 million. Our revenues are substantially dependent on municipal government spending. Many of our customers are municipal governmental agencies, and as such, we are dependent on municipal spending. Spending by our municipal customers can be affected by local political circumstances, budgetary constraints and other factors. Consequently, future municipal spending may not be allocated to projects that would benefit our business or may not be allocated in the amounts or for the size of the projects that we anticipated. A decrease in municipal spending on such projects would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. A general downturn in U.S. economic conditions, and specifically a downturn in the municipal bond market, may reduce our business prospects and decrease our revenues and cash flows. Our business is affected by general economic conditions. Any extended weakness in the U.S. economy could reduce our business prospects and could cause decreases in our revenues and operating cash flows. Specifically, a downturn in the municipal bond market caused by an actual downgrade of monoline insurers could result in our municipal customers being required to spend municipal funds previously allocated to projects that would benefit our business to pay off outstanding bonds. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic and political uncertainties and foreign currency fluctuation. Through our subsidiaries and joint ventures, our business is subject to fluctuations in demand and changing international economic and political conditions that are beyond our control. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 33.6% of our revenues were derived from international operations. We expect a significant portion of our revenues and profits to come from international operations and joint ventures for the foreseeable future and to continue to grow over time. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks, including abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations and, in some cases, international hostilities. To the extent that our international operations are affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience project disruptions and losses that could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. 11 From time to time, our contracts may be denominated in foreign currencies, which will result in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits. Our backlog is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. Our backlog, which at December 31, 2007 was approximately $260.3 million, is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellation. The revenues projected in this backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. We may be unable to complete some projects included in our backlog in the estimated time and, as a result, such projects could remain in the backlog for extended periods of time. To the extent that we experience project cancellation or scope adjustments, we could face a reduction in the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenues that we actually receive from such backlog. Our bonding capacity may be limited in certain circumstances. A significant portion of our projects require us to procure a bond to secure performance. From time to time, it may be difficult to find sureties who will provide the contract-required bonding at acceptable rates for reasons beyond our control (for example, as a result of changing political or economic conditions in a foreign country). With respect to our joint ventures, our ability to obtain a bond also may depend on the credit and performance risks of our joint venture partners, some of whom may not be as financially strong as we are. Our inability to obtain bonding on favorable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our strategy to pursue inorganic growth through acquisition could involve a number of risks. In addition to the organic growth of our business, the pursuit of inorganic growth is included among our strategic imperatives to achieve our strategic goals of growth, operational excellence and technological leadership. This strategy may involve the acquisition of companies or assets that enable us to build on our existing strength in a market or that gives us access to proprietary technologies that are strategically valuable or allow us to leverage our distribution channels. In connection with this strategy, we could face certain risks and uncertainties in addition to those we face in the day-to-day operations of our business. Our strategic imperative to diversify our products involves substantial research, development and marketing expenses, and the resulting new or enhanced products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to justify such expenses. Product diversification is among our strategic imperatives to achieve our strategic goals of growth, operational excellence and technological leadership. We, therefore, place a high priority on developing new products and services, as well as enhancing our existing products and services. In diversifying our product portfolio, we may be required to expend substantial research, development and marketing resources, and the time and expense required to develop a new product or service or enhance an existing product or service is difficult to predict. We cannot assure that we will succeed in developing, introducing and marketing new products or services or product or service enhancements. In addition, we cannot be certain that any new or enhanced product or service will generate sufficient revenues to justify the expenses and resources devoted to this product diversification effort. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts that cover our stock or our failure to meet these estimates; · conditions or trends in the U.S. sewer rehabilitation market; · changes in municipal spending practices; · a downturn of the municipal bond market; · changes in market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of a significant acquisition or divestiture; and · additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the stock market in general and Nasdaq in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. Industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Such stock price volatility could result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. 12 A change in control event will trigger early vesting of our equity-based incentive awards. The award agreements in connection with the stock option, restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards granted to our employees provide that upon a change in control of our Company, all outstanding equity awards will immediately vest. One of the change in control events designated under the award agreements is the replacement of 50% or more of our current directors over a one-year period, if the replacement were not approved by a majority of the current directors. We recently were given notice by a stockholder that it intends to nominate five individuals for election to our Board of Directors at our 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The stockholder also gave notice that it intends to submit a proposal at the Annual Meeting to amend our Amended and Restated By-Laws to reduce the number of directors to six. If four or more of the stockholder’s nominees are elected to the Board without being endorsed by a majority of the current Board, the accelerated vesting provisions of the outstanding stock option, restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards may be triggered, which may cause immediate dilution to current stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 