Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other factors outside our control. Failure to comply with one or more of these restrictive covenants may result in an event of default. Upon an event of default, if not waived by our lenders, our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable. At December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants as required under the senior notes and credit facility. In the past, however, we have not been in compliance with certain of these restrictive covenants and have had to seek amendments or waivers from our lenders. If we are unable to comply with the restrictive covenants in the future, we would be required to obtain further modifications from our lenders or secure another source of financing. If our current lenders accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient capital available at that time to pay the amounts due to our lenders on a timely basis. In addition, these restrictive covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions and taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. Our senior notes can be repaid at any time at par value plus a make-whole payment. The make-whole payment is calculated as the present value of the principal and remaining interest payments discounted at a reinvestment rate equal to the yield on the United States Treasury security with a maturity equal to the average life to maturity plus 50 basis points. At December 31, 2008, this make-whole payment would have approximated $10.0 million. We are currently negotiating a new credit facility with a lending syndicate. We anticipate that this credit facility will also contain certain restrictive covenants. These covenants may be more restrictive than those contained in our existing credit facility. Our revenues are substantially dependent on municipal government spending. Many of our customers are municipal governmental agencies, and as such, we are dependent on municipal spending. Spending by our municipal customers can be affected by local political circumstances, budgetary constraints and other factors. Consequently, future municipal spending may not be allocated to projects that would benefit our business or may not be allocated in the amounts or for the size of the projects that we anticipated. A decrease in municipal spending on such projects would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. The general downturn in U.S. economic conditions, and specifically a downturn in the municipal bond market, may reduce our business prospects and decrease our revenues and cash flows. Our business is affected by general economic conditions. Any extended weakness in the U.S. economy could reduce our business prospects and could cause decreases in our revenues and operating cash flows. Specifically, a downturn in the municipal bond market caused by an actual downgrade of monoline insurers could result in our municipal customers being required to spend municipal funds previously allocated to projects that would benefit our business to pay off outstanding bonds. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic and political uncertainties and foreign currency fluctuation. Through our international subsidiaries and joint ventures, our business is subject to fluctuations in demand and changing international economic and political conditions that are beyond our control. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, 39.2% and 33.6%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from international operations. We expect a significant portion of our revenues and profits to come from international operations and joint ventures for the foreseeable future and to continue to grow over time. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks, including abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations and, in some cases, international hostilities. To the extent that our international operations are 12 Table of Contents affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience project disruptions and losses that could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. From time to time, our contracts may be denominated in foreign currencies, which will result in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits. Our backlog is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. Our backlog, which at December 31, 2008 was approximately $249.1 million, is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellation. The revenues projected in this backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. We may be unable to complete some projects included in our backlog in the estimated time and, as a result, such projects could remain in the backlog for extended periods of time. To the extent that we experience project cancellation or scope adjustments, we could face a reduction in the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenues that we actually receive from such backlog. Our bonding capacity may be limited in certain circumstances. A significant portion of our projects require us to procure a bond to secure performance. From time to time, it may be difficult to find sureties who will provide the contract-required bonding at acceptable rates for reasons beyond our control (for example, as a result of changing political or economic conditions in a foreign country). With respect to our joint ventures, our ability to obtain a bond also may depend on the credit and performance risks of our joint venture partners, some of whom may not be as financially strong as we are. Our inability to obtain bonding on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our strategy to pursue growth in our energy and mining sector through selective acquisitions may not be successful. Our long-term strategy includes expanding our position in the energy and mining sector through selective acquisitions of companies, complementary technologies and organic growth. This strategy may involve the acquisition of companies that enable us to build on our existing strength in a market or that gives us access to proprietary technologies that are strategically valuable or allow us to leverage our distribution channels. In connection with this strategy, we could face certain risks and uncertainties in addition to those we face in the day-to-day operations of our business. The acquisitions that we may consider may not be successfully consummated. Our acquisition activities can be disrupted by overtures from competitors for the targeted candidates, governmental regulation and rapid developments in our industry. We may face additional risks and uncertainties following an acquisition, including our recently consummated acquisition of The Bayou Companies, L.L.C and our recently announced (but not yet consummated) acquisition of Corrpro Companies, Inc., including: (i) difficulty in integrating the newly-acquired business and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) inability to achieve strategic objectives, cost savings, expected levels of profitability and other benefits from the acquisition; (iii) the lack of success by the acquired business in its markets; (iv) the loss of key employees of the acquired business; (v) the diversion of the attention of senior management from our operations; and (vi) liabilities that were not known at the time of acquisition or the need to address tax or accounting issues. If we fail to timely recognize or address these matters or to devote adequate resources to them, we may fail to achieve our growth strategy or otherwise realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. Even if we are able to integrate our business operations successfully, the integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, profitability, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from the integration or that the benefits will be achieved within the forecasted period of time. In addition, our acquisition activities could require us to secure additional debt or equity financing, which we may not be able to secure on favorable terms or at all. Our efforts to develop new products and services or enhance existing products and services involve substantial research, development and marketing expenses, and the resulting new or enhanced products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to justify such expenses. We place a high priority on developing new products and services, as well as enhancing our existing products and services. As a result of these efforts, we may be required to expend substantial research, development and marketing resources, and the time and expense required to develop a new product or service or enhance an existing product or service are difficult to predict. We cannot assure that we will succeed in developing, introducing and marketing new products or services or product or service enhancements. In addition, we cannot be certain that any new or enhanced product or service will generate sufficient revenues to justify the expenses and resources devoted to this product diversification effort. We occasionally access the financial markets to finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs. Our ability to access these markets may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control and could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations or implement our operating strategy. We occasionally borrow under our existing credit facility to fund operations, including working capital investments. Market disruptions such as those currently being experienced in the United States and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the 13 Table of Contents credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and, in certain cases, resulting in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Continued uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facility or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. These disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. If we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our customers. The recent economic downturn has resulted in tighter credit markets, which could adversely affect our customers’ ability to secure the financing necessary to proceed or continue with pipe installation and rehabilitation projects. Our customers’ or potential customers’ inability to secure financing for projects could result in the delay, cancellation or downsizing of new projects or the suspension of projects already under contract, which could cause a decline in the demand for our services and negatively impact our revenues and earnings. Cyclical downturns in the mining, oil and natural gas industries, or in the oilfield and mining services businesses, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The mining, oil and natural gas industries are highly cyclical. Demand for the majority of our oilfield and mining products and services is substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the mining, oil and natural gas industries for the exploration, development and production of mined minerals, crude oil and natural gas reserves, which are sensitive to the prices of these commodities and generally dependent on the industry’s view of future mined mineral, oil and natural gas prices. There are numerous factors affecting the supply of and demand for our products and services, which include, but are not limited to: • market prices of mined minerals, oil and natural gas and expectations about future prices; • cost of producing mined minerals, oil and natural gas; • the level of mining, drilling and production activity; • mergers, consolidations and downsizing among our clients; • coordination by OPEC; • the impact of commodity prices on the expenditure levels of our clients; • financial condition of our client base and their ability to fund capital and maintenance expenditures; • adverse weather conditions; • civil unrest in oil-producing countries; • level of consumption of minerals, oil, natural gas and petrochemicals by consumers; and • availability of services and materials for our clients to grow their capital expenditures. The mining, oil and natural gas industries have historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our oilfield and mining products and services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the mining, oil and natural gas industries could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot guarantee that we will complete the acquisition of Corrpro. Although we have entered into an acquisition agreement with respect to our proposed acquisition of Corrpro, we cannot guarantee when, or whether, the acquisition will be completed. The acquisition agreement contains a number of important conditions that must be satisfied before we can complete the transaction, including, but not limited to, our ability to obtain financing, the absence of any material adverse changes in the condition of Corrpro and its consolidated subsidiaries, taken as a whole, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of Corrpro and the consent of certain governmental authorities. In addition, the consummation of the Corrpro acquisition is subject to approval by Corrpro’s shareholders. If these conditions are not met, this acquisition may not be completed. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and may result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts that cover our stock or our failure to meet these estimates; • conditions or trends in the U.S. sewer rehabilitation market; • changes in municipal and corporate spending practices; • a downturn of the municipal bond market or lending markets generally; • changes in market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of a significant acquisition or divestiture; and • additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the stock market in general and the Nasdaq Global Select Market in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. Industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Such stock price volatility could result in investors selling shares of our common stock at a loss. Future sales of our common stock or equity-linked securities in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Sales of substantial numbers of additional shares of our common stock or any shares of our preferred stock, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, or the perception that such sales could occur, may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy obligations upon exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. Our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, provides that we have authority to issue 60,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2008, 27,977,785 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding. On February 17, 2009, we completed a secondary offering of 10,350,000 shares of our common stock. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, provides that our Board of Directors has the authority, without any action of our stockholders, to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Preferred stock may be issued upon such terms and with such designations as our Board of Directors may fix in its discretion, including with respect to: the payment of dividends upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up; voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock; dividend rates; redemption or conversion rights; liquidation preferences; or voting rights. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, provides that subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock set forth in our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, the certificate of designation relating to such class or series of preferred stock, or as otherwise required by law, any stockholder action may be taken only at a meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any written consent by such stockholders. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors is required to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with such arrangement. These provisions could potentially be used to discourage attempts by others to obtain control of our Company through merger, tender offer, proxy, consent or otherwise by making such attempts more difficult or more costly, even if the offer may be considered beneficial by our stockholders. These provisions also may make it more difficult for stockholders to take action opposed by our Board of Directors or otherwise adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our present policy is to retain earnings to provide for the operation and expansion of our business. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our earnings, financial condition, cash flows, financing agreements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Furthermore, under the terms of certain debt arrangements to which we are a party, we are subject to certain limitations on paying dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 