ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks associated with the business of banking generally, as described above under Item 1 “Description of Business”, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results, future prospects and stock price can be adversely impacted by certain risk factors, as set forth below, any one of which could cause the Company’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from the Company’s anticipated future results. Extensive Regulation of Banking. The operations of the Company and its subsidiary, North Valley Bank, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of such operations. The Company and North Valley Bank believe they are in substantial compliance in all material respects with laws, rules and regulations applicable to the conduct of their banking business. Because the banking business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to regular modification and change. These laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations adopted in the future, could make compliance more difficult or expensive, restrict the Company’s ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by the Company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, or future prospects. The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law on July 21, 2010, is expected to have a broad impact on the financial services sector, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act requirements will be implemented over time and, given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which they will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on the Company’s operations is not clear. Changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, impose more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Competition. An economy characterized by a decline in real estate values, high unemployment and general uncertainty has increased competition for good quality loans among depository institutions operating in the Company’s market areas. Ultimately, the Company and North Valley Bank may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the banking services that are offered by North Valley Bank. These competitors include national and super-regional banks, finance companies, investment banking and brokerage firms, credit unions, government-assisted farm credit programs, other community banks and technology-oriented financial institutions offering online services. In particular, North Valley Bank’s competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances, such as Internet-based banking services that cross traditional geographic bounds, enable more companies to provide financial services. If North Valley Bank is unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to continue its level of loans and deposits, which may adversely affect its and the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Dependence on Key Employees. The Company and North Valley Bank are dependent on the successful recruitment and retention of highly qualified personnel. Our ability to implement our business strategies is closely tied to the strengths of our chief executive officer and other key officers. Our key officers have extensive experience in the banking industry which is not easily replaced. Business banking, one of the Company’s principal lines of business, is dependent on relationship banking, in which Company personnel develop professional relationships with small business owners and officers of larger business customers who are responsible for the financial management of the companies they represent. If these employees were to leave the Company and become employed by a competing bank, the Company could potentially lose business customers. In addition, the Company relies on its customer service staff to effectively serve the needs of its consumer customers. The Company very actively recruits for all open positions and management believes that its employee relations are good. Growth Strategy. The Company has pursued and continues to pursue a growth strategy which depends primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels. The Company may not be able to sustain this growth strategy without establishing new branches or new products. Therefore, the Company may expand in its current markets by opening or acquiring branch offices or may expand into new markets or make strategic acquisitions of other financial institutions or branch offices. This expansion may require significant investments in equipment, technology, personnel and site locations. Our success in implementing our growth strategy may not be possible without corresponding increases in our noninterest expenses. In addition, growth through acquisitions represents a component of our business strategy. The need to integrate the operations and personnel of acquired banks and branches may not always be successfully accomplished. Any inability to improve operating performance through integration and/or merger of operations, functions or banks could increase expenses and impact the Company’s performance. 18 Governmental Fiscal and Monetary Policies. The business of banking is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. Such policies are beyond the control of the Company. The Company is particularly affected by the policies established by the Board of Governors in relation to the supply of money and credit in the United States. The instruments of monetary policy available to the Board of Governors can be used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits, and this can and does have a material effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Geographic Concentration. All of the business of the Company is located in the State of California and the banking offices of the Company are located in the Northern California Counties of Shasta, Trinity, Humboldt, Del Norte, Yolo, Sonoma, Placer and Mendocino. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in those counties. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, employment and income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Adverse economic conditions and unemployment trends in those markets are affecting the ability of our customers to repay their loans which has reduced our growth rate and impacted our financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions in the State of California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including the budgetary and fiscal difficulties facing the California State Government. Conditions in the California economy may deteriorate and such deterioration would adversely affect the Company. Commercial Loans. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 10% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial business loans. The credit risk for commercial loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the mobility of collateral, the effect of general economic conditions and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial business loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower’s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial business loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Real Estate Values. A large portion of the loan portfolio of the Company is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2011, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 77% of the Company’s loan portfolio. A continuing substantial decline in the economy in general, or a continuing decline in real estate values in the Company’s primary operating market areas in particular, could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans and the value of mortgage-backed securities included in the available-for-sale investment portfolio, as well as the Company’s financial condition and results of operations in general and the market value for Company common stock. Acts of nature, including fires, earthquakes and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact the Company’s financial condition. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize the amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property in the event of foreclosure. Construction and Development Loans. At December 31, 2011, real estate construction loans totaled $27.4 million, or 6.0% of our total loan portfolio. Residential construction loans, including land acquisition and development, totaled $23.8 million or 87% of the Company’s real estate construction portfolio, and 5.2% of the total loan portfolio. Construction, land acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds are advanced on the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, speculative construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the completion of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or the guarantor to repay the principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, we may not be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan, as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time. 19 Other Real Estate Owned (“OREO”). Real estate acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosures is expected to be sold and is recorded at its fair value less estimated costs to sell (fair value). The amount, if any, by which the recorded amount of the loan exceeds the fair value (less estimated costs to sell) are charged to the allowance for loan losses, if necessary. The Company’s earnings could be materially and adversely affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments, and other expenses associated with property ownership. Also, any further decrease in market prices of real estate in our market areas may lead to additional OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. Our OREO totaled $20,106,000 at December 31, 2011, $25,784,000 at December 31, 2010 and $12,377,000 at December 31, 2009. Allowance for Loan Losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, but the allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Company and therefore the Company’s operating results. The Company’s allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company’s loans and allowance for loan losses. We believe that the Company’s allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, but a continuing decline in real estate values combined with higher rates of unemployment or under-employment in our operating markets could result in an increase in classified loans and the allowance for loan losses. These occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Nonperforming Loans. In recent years, we have experienced significant declines in the performance of loans, particularly construction, development and land loans, and unsecured commercial and consumer loans. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s nonperforming loans (defined as nonaccrual loans and loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest) were approximately $18,411,000, compared to approximately $20,065,000 at December 31, 2010. Nonperforming loans at December 31, 2009 were approximately $46,598,000. Nonperforming loans as a percentage of the Company’s total loans were 4.04% at December 31, 2011, 3.91% at December 31, 2010, and 7.74% at December 31, 2009. Nonperforming loans adversely affect the Company’s net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans; the costs of reappraising adversely classified assets, legal and other costs associated with loan collections, and other operating costs related to foreclosed assets have increased our noninterest expense; and upon taking collateral through foreclosure or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, less estimated selling costs, which may result in a loss. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect that our level of nonperforming loans will continue to impact our earnings, and could have a substantial adverse impact if conditions deteriorate further. Regulatory Agreement. On January 6, 2010, the Company and North Valley Bank entered into a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank. A copy of the Written Agreement was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 8, 2010, as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K. Among other things, the Written Agreement provides that the Company and North Valley Bank shall submit to the Federal Reserve Bank their plans to enhance lending and credit administration functions, to maintain policies and procedures for the maintenance of an adequate allocation for loan losses, to strengthen the management of commercial real estate concentrations and to update its capital plan in order to maintain capital ratios at or above the required minimums. The Written Agreement also restricts the payment of dividends and any payments on trust preferred securities, certain indemnification and severance payments, and any reduction in capital and the purchase or redemption of stock without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Progress reports detailing the form and manner of all actions taken to secure compliance with the Written Agreement must be submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank at least quarterly. The failure of the Company or North Valley Bank to comply with the Written Agreement may subject the Company and North Valley Bank to additional regulatory restrictions. Each provision of the Written Agreement will remain effective and enforceable until stayed, modified, terminated or suspended by the Federal Reserve Bank. Communications from the Reserve Bank have continued to confirm that the Company and NVB are currently in compliance with all provisions of the Written Agreement. The Effects of Legislation in Response to Current Credit Conditions. Legislation passed at the federal level and/or by the State of California in response to current conditions affecting credit markets could cause the Company to experience higher loan losses if such legislation reduces the amount that borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts with North Valley Bank. Such legislation could also result in the imposition of limitations upon North Valley Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or make foreclosure less economically feasible. Such events could result in increased loan losses and require a material increase in the allowance for loan losses and thereby adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, future prospects, profitability and stock price. 20 Dilution of Common Stock. On April 22, 2010, the Company raised $40 million (in gross proceeds) in a private placement of 40,000 shares of its Mandatorily Convertible Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (“Series A Preferred Stock”) to a limited number of institutional and other accredited investors, including certain directors and executive officers of the Company. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock were convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock and, on July 21, 2010, with the prior approval of the Company shareholders, all 40,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were converted into a 26,666,646 shares of Company common stock (resulting in a total of 34,162,463 shares of common stock outstanding on such date). Shares of the Company’s common stock remaining eligible for future sale could have a further dilutive effect on the market for the common stock and could adversely affect the market price. The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company currently authorize the issuance of 60,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 6,833,752 were outstanding at December 31, 2011 (after a one-for-five reverse stock split effective on December 28, 2010). Pursuant to Company stock option plans, at December 31, 2011, employees and directors of the Company had outstanding options to purchase 184,070 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2011, 161,095 shares of common stock remained available for grants under the Company’s stock option plans. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company common stock in public or private offerings could adversely affect the market price of common stock. Operations Risks. The Company is subject to a variety of operations risks, including, but not limited to, reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, data processing system failures and errors, operational errors resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, any of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Bank is subject to periodic regulatory examinations in the ordinary course of business which are conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the California Department of Financial Institutions. Currently there remains pending a compliance examination of the Bank conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and, therefore, the Bank has not received the final report of examination. Business Confidence and International Uncertainty. The terrorist actions on September 11, 2001, and thereafter, plus military actions taken by the United States in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere, have had significant adverse effects upon the United States economy. Whether terrorist activities in the future and the actions taken by the United States and its allies in combating terrorism on a worldwide basis will adversely impact the Company, and the extent of such impact, is uncertain. However, such events have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the United States economy and by extension, the California economy including business activity in the Company’s market areas. Further economic deterioration and a loss of business confidence, whether at the national, state or local level, could adversely affect the Company’s future results of operations by, among other matters, reducing the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Company, increasing nonperforming loans and the amounts required to be reserved for loan losses, reducing the value of collateral held as security for the Company’s loans, and causing a decline in the Company’s stock price. The Effects of Changes to FDIC Insurance Coverage Limits and Assessments. FDIC insurance assessments are uncertain and increased premiums may adversely affect the Company’s earnings. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF. Current economic conditions have increased expectations for additional bank failures and, in such event, the FDIC would take control of the failed banks and guarantee payment of deposits up to applicable insured limits from the DIF. Insurance premium assessments to insured financial institutions may increase as necessary to maintain adequate funding of the DIF. The EESA of 2008 included a provision for an increase in the amount of deposits insured by the FDIC to $250,000, which was scheduled to remain in effect through December 31, 2013. With enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act on July 21, 2010, the $250,000 per depositor insurance limit was made permanent and, among other matters, unlimited deposit insurance for noninterest bearing transaction accounts was extended through December 31, 2012. It is not clear how depositors may respond regarding the permanent increase in insurance coverage to $250,000. Despite the increase, some depositors may reduce the amount of deposits held at North Valley Bank if concerns regarding bank failures persist, which could affect the level and composition of North Valley Bank’s deposit portfolio and thereby directly impact its funding costs and net interest margin. North Valley Bank’s funding costs may also be adversely affected in the event that activities of the Federal Reserve Board and the U.S. Department of the Treasury to provide liquidity for the banking system and improvement in capital markets are curtailed or are unsuccessful. Such events could reduce liquidity in the markets, thereby increasing funding costs to North Valley Bank or reducing the availability of funds to finance its existing operations and thereby adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, future prospects, profitability and stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 