ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks associated with the business of banking generally, as described above under Item 1 (Description of Business), the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results, future prospects and stock price can be adversely impacted by certain risk factors, as set forth below, any one of which could cause the Company’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from the Company’s anticipated future results. Extensive Regulation of Banking. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by Federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance in all material respects with laws, rules and regulations applicable to the conduct of its business. Because the Company’s business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to it are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that these laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict the Company’s ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by the Company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, or future prospects. Competition. Increased competition in the market of the Company’s subsidiary, North Valley Bank, may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, it may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the banking services that are offered by North Valley Bank in its service area. These competitors include national and super-regional banks, finance companies, investment banking and brokerage firms, credit unions, government-assisted farm credit programs, other community banks and technology-oriented financial institutions offering online services. In particular, North Valley Bank’s competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances, such as Internet-based banking services that cross traditional geographic bounds, enable more companies to provide financial services. If North Valley Bank is unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to continue its loan growth and level of deposits, which may adversely affect its and the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. 15 Dependence on Key Employees. The Company and its subsidiaries are dependent on the successful recruitment and retention of highly qualified personnel. Our ability to implement our business strategies is closely tied to the strengths of our chief executive officer and other key officers. Our key officers have extensive experience in the banking industry which is not easily replaced. Business banking, one of the Company’s principal lines of business, is dependent on relationship banking, in which Company personnel develop professional relationships with small business owners and officers of larger business customers who are responsible for the financial management of the companies they represent. If these employees were to leave the Company and become employed by a local competing bank, the Company could potentially lose business customers. In addition, the Company relies on its customer service staff to effectively serve the needs of its consumer customers. The Company very actively recruits for all open positions and management believes that employee relations are good. Growth Strategy. The Company pursued and continues to pursue a growth strategy which depends primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels. The Company may not be able to sustain this growth strategy without establishing new branches or new products. Therefore, the Company may expand in our current market by opening or acquiring branch offices or may expand into new markets or make strategic acquisitions of other financial institutions or branch offices. This expansion may require significant investments in equipment, technology, personnel and site locations. The Company cannot assure you of our success in implementing our growth strategy without corresponding increases in our noninterest expenses. In addition, growth through acquisitions represents a component of our business strategy. The need to integrate the operations and personnel of acquired banks and branches may not always be successfully accomplished. Any inability to improve operating performance through integration and/or merger of operations, functions or banks could increase expenses and impact the Company’s performance. Governmental Fiscal and Monetary Policies. The business of banking is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. Such policies are beyond the control of the Company. The Company is particularly affected by the policies established by the Board of Governors in relation to the supply of money and credit in the United States. The instruments of monetary policy available to the Board of Governors can be used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits, and this can and does have a material effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Geographic Concentration. All of the business of the Company is located in the State of California and the banking offices of the Company are located in the Northern California Counties of Shasta, Trinity, Humboldt, Del Norte, Yolo, Solano, Sonoma, Placer and Mendocino. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in those counties. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets, and adverse economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, or affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, and generally impact our financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions in the State of California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including the budgetary and fiscal difficulties facing the State Government. The Company can provide no assurance that conditions in the California economy will not deteriorate further or that such deterioration will not adversely affect the Company. Commercial Loans. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 13% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial business loans, which may have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans. This increased credit risk is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the mobility of collateral, the effect of general economic conditions and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial business loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower’s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial business loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. 16 Real Estate Values. A large portion of the loan portfolio of the Company is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2008, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 76% of the Company’s loan portfolio. A continuing substantial decline in the economy in general, or a continuing decline in real estate values in the Company’s primary operating market areas in particular, could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans and the value of mortgage-backed securities included in the available-for-sale investment portfolio, as well as the Company’s financial condition and results of operations in general and the market value for Company Common Stock. Acts of nature, including fires, earthquakes and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact the Company’s financial condition. Construction and Development Loans. At December 31, 2008, real estate construction loans totaled $136.8 million, or 20% of the total loan portfolio. Residential construction loans, including land acquisition and development, totaled $106.2 million or 78% of the Company’s real estate construction portfolio, and 15% of the total loan portfolio. Construction, land acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds are advanced on the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, speculative construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the completion of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or the guarantor to repay the principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan, a well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time. Other Real Estate Owned. Real estate acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosures is expected to be sold and is recorded at its fair value less estimated costs to sell (fair value). The amount, if any, by which the recorded amount of the loan exceeds the fair value less estimated costs to sell are charged to the allowance for loan or lease losses, if necessary. After foreclosure, valuations are periodically performed by management with any subsequent write-downs recorded as a valuation allowance and charged against operating expenses. Operating expenses of such properties, net of related income, are included in other expenses and gains and losses on their disposition are included in other income and other expenses. Reduction in property valuations, extended holding periods, and maintenance on the property could materially and adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan or lease defaults and non-performance, but its allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses. In addition, future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect the Company and therefore the Company’s operating results. The Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company’s loans and allowance for loan and lease losses. Although we believe that the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that it will not further increase the allowance for loan and lease losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s earnings. The Effects of Legislation in Response to Current Credit Conditions. Legislation passed at the federal level and/or by the State of California in response to current conditions affecting credit markets could cause the Company to experience higher credit losses if such legislation reduces the amount that borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts with North Valley Bank. Such legislation could also result in the imposition of limitations upon North Valley Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or make foreclosure less economically feasible. Such events could result in increased loan losses and require a material increase in the allowance for loan losses and thereby adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, future prospects, profitability and stock price. 17 Dilution of Common Stock. Shares of the Company’s common stock eligible for future sale could have a dilutive effect on the market for the common stock and could adversely affect the market price. The Articles of Incorporation of the Company authorize the issuance of 20,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 7,495,817 were outstanding at December 31, 2008. Pursuant to its stock option plans, at December 31, 2008, the Company had outstanding options to purchase 987,402 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2008, 371,055 shares of common stock remained available for grants under the Company’s stock option plans. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of common stock. Operating Losses. The Company is subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Business Confidence Uncertainty. The terrorist actions on September 11, 2001, and thereafter, plus military actions taken by the United States in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere, have had significant adverse effects upon the United States economy. Whether terrorist activities in the future and the actions taken by the United States and its allies in combating terrorism on a worldwide basis will adversely impact the Company, and the extent of such impact, is uncertain. However, such events have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the economy in the Company’s market areas. Such continued economic deterioration could adversely affect the Company’s future results of operations by, among other matters, reducing the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Company, increasing nonperforming loans and the amounts required to be reserved for loan losses, reducing the value of collateral held as security for the Company’s loans, and causing a decline in the Company’s stock price. The Effects of Changes to FDIC Insurance Coverage Limits and Assessments. These changes are uncertain and increased premiums may adversely affect the Company. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. Current economic conditions have increased expectations for bank failures. In such event, the FDIC would take control of failed banks and guarantee payment of deposits up to applicable insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. Insurance premium assessments to insured financial institutions may increase as necessary to maintain adequate funding of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 included a provision for an increase in the amount of deposits insured by the FDIC to $250,000. On October 24, 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program that provides unlimited deposit insurance on funds in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. All eligible institutions will be covered under the program for the first 30 days without incurring any costs. After the initial period, participating institutions will be assessed a 10 basis point surcharge on the additional insured deposits through the scheduled end of the program, currently December 31, 2009. Increased premiums will impact the Company’s earnings. It is not clear how depositors may respond regarding the increase in insurance coverage. Despite the increase, some depositors may reduce the amount of deposits held at North Valley Bank if concerns regarding bank failures persist, which could affect the level and composition of the Bank’s deposit portfolio and thereby directly impact the Bank’s funding costs and net interest margin. North Valley Bank’s funding costs may also be adversely affected in the event that activities of the Federal Reserve Board and the U.S. Department of the Treasury to provide liquidity for the banking system and improvement in capital markets are curtailed or are unsuccessful. Such events could reduce liquidity in the markets, thereby increasing funding costs to the Bank or reducing the availability of funds to the Bank to finance its existing operations and thereby adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, future prospects, profitability and stock price. The Troubled Asset Relief Program. This program includes restrictions that affect participating institutions and their shareholders. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 gave the United States Department of the Treasury authority to deploy up to $700 billion into the financial system with an objective of improving liquidity in capital markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury Department announced plans to direct $250 billion of this authority into a Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under which the Treasury Department will make preferred stock investments in bank holding companies, banks and other qualifying financial institutions. The terms and conditions of the CPP could reduce investment returns to shareholders of participating bank holding companies and banks by restricting dividends to common shareholders, diluting existing shareholders’ interests, and restricting capital management practices. The Company is currently evaluating whether to participate in the CPP. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS No comments have been submitted to the registrant by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 