Item 1A Risk Factors. The following risk factors, as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered by investors in connection with any investment in the Company’s common stock. As used in this Item, the terms “we,” “us” and “our” refer to the Company and its subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Significant Customers We are significantly dependent on our contractual relationship with FedEx Corporation, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, 52% of our consolidated operating revenues, and 100% of the operating revenues for our overnight air cargo segment, arose from services we provided to FedEx. Our agreements with FedEx are renewable on one-year terms and may be terminated by FedEx at any time upon 30 days’ notice. FedEx has been a customer of the Company since 1980. The loss of these contracts with FedEx would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Our current contracts extend through October 31, 2014. In the prior year, we had reported that we were in the process of negotiating replacement agreements with FedEx but FedEx had put the contract negotiations on hold. The contract negotiations have recently resumed and are in the early stages. We do expect the replacement agreements to be negotiated and put into effect at some point in the future. The terms of the replacement agreements may differ from the terms of our current agreements, which may affect our results of operations going forward. Because of our dependence on FedEx, we are subject to the risks that may affect FedEx’s operations. Because of our dependence on FedEx, we are subject to the risks that may affect FedEx’s operations. These risks are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Risk Factors” in FedEx Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2013. These risks include but are not limited to the following: · Economic conditions in the global markets in which it operates; · Dependence on its strong reputation and value of its brand; · Potential disruption to the Internet and FedEx’s technology infrastructure, including customer websites; · The price and availability of fuel; · Its ability to manage its assets, including aircraft, to match shifting and future shipping volumes; · Intense competition from other providers of transportation and business services; · Its ability to make prudent strategic acquisitions and realize the expected benefits; · Its ability to maintain good relationships with its employees and prevent attempts by labor organizations to organize groups of its employees; · Its ability to execute on its business realignment program to improve profitability; · The impact of terrorist activities including the imposition of stricter governmental security requirements; · Regulatory actions affecting global aviation rights or a failure to obtain or maintain aviation rights in important international markets; · Global climate change or legal, regulatory or market responses to such change; · Localized natural or man-made disasters in key locations, including its Memphis, Tennessee super-hub; · Disruptions or modifications in service by the Unites States Postal Service, a significant customer and vendor of FedEx; and · Widespread outbreak of an illness or other communicable disease or any other public health crisis. 7 A material reduction in the aircraft we fly for FedEx could materially adversely affect on our business and results of operations. Under our agreements with FedEx, we are not guaranteed a number of aircraft or routes we are to fly. Our compensation under these agreements, including our administrative fees, depends on the number of aircraft leased to us by FedEx. Any material permanent reduction in the aircraft we operate could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. A temporary reduction could materially adversely affect our results of operations for that period. Our ground support services segment has been dependent upon the revenues from two significant customers, the loss of which could materially impact the segment’s results. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, approximately 52% of GAS’s revenues were derived from services under contracts with two customers. The contract with one of these customers is subject to renewal in July 2014. The loss of these customers, or a major decline in business activity with these customers, could materially adversely impact the results of the segment. Other Business Risks Our revenues for aircraft maintenance services fluctuate based on the heavy maintenance check schedule, which is based on aircraft usage, for aircraft flown by our overnight air cargo operations. Our maintenance revenues are affected based on the level of heavy maintenance checks performed on aircraft operated by our overnight air cargo operations which is affected by the level of usage of the aircraft. Accordingly, our maintenance revenues fluctuate from period to period. In addition, if the number of aircraft operated for FedEx were to decrease, we would likely experience fewer maintenance hours and consequently, less maintenance revenue. Incidents or accidents involving products and services that we sell may result in liability or otherwise adversely affect our operating results for a period. Incidents or accidents may occur involving the products and services that we sell. While we maintain products liability and other insurance in amounts we believe are customary and appropriate, and may have rights to pursue subcontractors in the event that we have any liability in connection with accidents involving products that we sell, it is possible that in the event of multiple accidents the amount of our insurance coverage would not be adequate. The suspension or revocation of FAA certifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our overnight air cargo operations are subject to regulations of the FAA. The FAA can suspend or revoke the authority of air carriers or their licensed personnel for failure to comply with its regulations and can ground aircraft if questions arise concerning airworthiness. The FAA also has power to suspend or revoke for cause the certificates it issues and to institute proceedings for imposition and collection of fines for violation of federal aviation regulations. Our overnight air cargo subsidiaries, MAC and CSA, operate under separate FAA certifications. Although it is possible that, in the event that the certification of one of our subsidiaries was suspended or revoked, flights operated by that subsidiary could be transferred to the other subsidiary, we can offer no assurance that we would be able to transfer flight operations in that manner. Accordingly, the suspension or revocation of any one of these certifications could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial position. The suspension or revocation of all of these certifications would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 8 Sales of deicing equipment can be affected by weather conditions. Our deicing equipment is used to deice commercial and military aircraft. The extent of deicing activity depends on the severity of winter weather. Mild winter weather conditions permit airports to use fewer deicing units, since less time is required to deice aircraft in mild weather conditions. As a result, airports may be able to extend the useful lives of their existing units, reducing the demand for new units. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Various provisions and laws could delay or prevent a change of control. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware corporation law could delay or prevent a change of control or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, among other things regulate how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholders’ meetings and authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without shareholder approval. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 