1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2 Properties 20 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4 Removed and Reserved 21 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9 Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 46 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 46 Item 9B Other Information 47 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 47 Item 11 Executive Compensation 47 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 47 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 47 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 48 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 48 Signatures 93 2 PART I ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Certain matters discussed or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including, but not limited to, matters described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may contain words related to future projections including, but not limited to, words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” & #8220;would,” and variations of those words and similar words that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) the duration of financial and economic volatility and actions taken by the United States Congress and governmental agencies, including the United States Department of the Treasury, to deal with challenges to the U.S. financial system; (2) variances in the actual versus projected growth in assets and return on assets; (3) loan and lease losses; (4) expenses; (5) changes in the interest rate environment including interest rates charged on loans, earned on securities investments and paid on deposits and other borrowed funds; (6) competition effects; (7) fee and other noninterest income earned; (8) general economic conditions nationally, regionally, and in the operating market areas of the Company and its subsidiaries including State and local budget issues being addressed in California; (9) changes in the regulatory environment including government intervention in the U.S. financial system; (10) changes in business conditions and inflation; (11) changes in securities markets, public debt markets, and other capital markets; (12) data processing and other operational systems failures or fraud; (13) a further decline in real estate values in the Company’s operating market areas; (14) the effects of uncontrollable events such as terrorism, the threat of terrorism or the impact of the current military conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq and the conduct of the war on terrorism by the United States and its allies, worsening financial and economic conditions, natural disasters, and disruption of power supplies and communications; and (15) changes in accounting standards, tax laws or regulations and interpretations of such standards, laws or regulations, as well as other factors. The factors set forth under Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, in this report and other cautionary statements and information set forth in this report should be carefully considered and understood as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements contained in this report when evaluating the business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. By their nature, they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results and shareholder values in the future may differ significantly from those expressed in forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to put undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. Any such statement speaks only as of the date of the report, and in the case of any documents that may be incorporated by reference, as of the date of those documents. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statements, or to report any new information, future event or other circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. However, your attention is directed to any further discl osures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. General North Valley Bancorp (the “Company”) is a bank holding company registered with and subject to regulation and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB” or the “Board of Governors”). The Company was incorporated in 1980 in the State of California. The Company owns 100% of its principal subsidiaries, North Valley Bank (“NVB” or the “Bank”), North Valley Trading Company (“Trading Company”), which is inactive, North Valley Capital Trust I, North Valley Capital Trust II, North Valley Capital Trust III, and North Valley Capital Statutory Trust IV. On October 11, 2000, the Company completed its plan of reorganization with Six Rivers National Bank. On January 2, 2002, Six Rivers National Bank became a California State chartered bank and in c onjunction with this charter conversion, changed its name to Six Rivers Bank (“SRB”). On January 1, 2004, Six Rivers Bank was merged with and into North Valley Bank with North Valley Bank as the surviving institution. Former branches of Six Rivers Bank continued to operate as Six Rivers Bank, a division of North Valley Bank until April 18, 2005. Since April 18, 2005, those branches have operated as North Valley Bank branches. (For purposes herein, “NVB” shall refer to North Valley Bank including the former branches of SRB and “SRB” will refer to the former branches and operations of SRB). On August 31, 2004, the Company acquired Yolo Community Bank (“YCB”) in a purchase transaction. Yolo Community Bank was a privately-held California banking corporation that commenced operations in 1998 and was headquartered in Woodland, California. Consideration paid was a combination of $9.5 million in cash and 741,697 shares of the Company’s common stock. Yolo Communit y Bank changed its name to NVB Business Bank (“NVB BB”) effective February 11, 2005. After the close of business on June 30, 2006, NVB BB was merged with and into North Valley Bank with North Valley Bank as the surviving institution. The information contained herein contains the results of operations of YCB from September 1, 2004. 3 At December 31, 2009 the Company had $884,362,000 in total assets, $602,417,000 in total loans and leases and $787,809,000 in total deposits. The Company does not hold deposits of any one customer or group of customers where the loss of such deposits would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s business is not seasonal. NVB was organized in September 1972, under the laws of the State of California, and commenced operations in February 1973. NVB is principally supervised and regulated by the California Commissioner of Financial Institutions (the “Commissioner”) and conducts a commercial and retail banking business, which includes accepting demand, savings, and money market rate deposit accounts and time deposits, and making commercial, real estate and consumer loans. It also issues cashier’s checks and money orders, sells travelers’ checks and provides safe deposit boxes and other customary banking services. As a state-chartered insured member bank, NVB is also subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and its deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC” ;) up to the legal limits thereupon. NVB is also participating in the FDIC Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”). Under that program, through June 30, 2010, all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully guaranteed by the FDIC for the entire amount in the account. Coverage under the TAGP is in addition to and separate from the coverage available under the FDIC’s general deposit insurance rules. NVB does not offer trust services or inter­national banking services and does not plan to do so in the near future. NVB operates twenty-five banking offices in Shasta, Trinity, Humboldt, Del Norte, Yolo, Solano, Sonoma, Placer, and Mendocino Counties, for which it has received all of the requisite regulatory approvals. The headquarters office in Redding opened in February 1973. In October 1973, NVB opened its Weaverville Office; in October 1974, its Hayfork Office; in January 1978, its Anderson Office; and in September 1979, its Enterprise Office (East Redding). On December 20, 1982, NVB acquired the assets of two branches of the Bank of California: one located in Shasta Lake and the other in Redding, California. On June 1, 1985, NVB opened its Westwood Village Office in South Redding. On November 27, 1995, NVB opened a branch located in Palo Cedro, California. On October 14, 1997, NVB relocated its branch in Shasta Lake to a new facility. NVB opene d two super-market branches in 1998 located in Cottonwood, California and Redding, California. On May 11, 1998, NVB opened a Business Banking Center in Redding, California, to provide banking services to business and professional clients. On August 13, 2001, the Business Banking Center and the Company’s Administrative offices moved to a new location at 300 Park Marina Drive in Redding, California. On August 5, 2002, NVB opened an Express Banking Center located at 2245 Churn Creek Road in Redding. On October 1, 2008, NVB opened a Loan Production Office located at 750 Mason Street, Suite 202, in Vacaville, California. In 2009, the branch office located in Fairfield, California and the Loan Production Office located in Vacaville, California were closed and the banking operations were absorbed into other offices. NVB has signed agreements with Essex National Securities, Inc., a registered broker-dealer, (“Essex”) whereby Essex provides broker/dealer services and standardized investment advice to NVB customers. NVB shares in the fees and commissions paid to Essex on a pre-determined schedule. In 2006, majority ownership of Essex was acquired by Addison Avenue Financial Partners, a subsidiary of the Addison Avenue Federal Credit Union. Junior Subordinated Debentures The Company owns the common stock of four business trusts that have issued an aggregate of $31.0 million in trust preferred securities fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company. The entire proceeds of each respective issuance of trust preferred securities were invested by the separate business trusts into junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company, with identical maturity, repricing and payment terms as the respective issuance of trust preferred securities. The aggregate amount of junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company is $32.0 million, with the maturity dates for the respective debentures ranging from 2031 through 2036. Subject to regulatory approval, the Company may redeem the respective junior subordinated debentures earlier than the maturity date, with certain of the debentures being redeemable beg inning in July 2006 and others being redeemable beginning in April 2008, July 2009 and March 2011. On November 9, 2009, the Company elected to defer the payment of interest on these securities. The Company is allowed to defer the payment of interest for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods without triggering an event of default. For more information about the trust preferred securities and the debentures and certain regulatory restrictions on the payment of interest, see Notes 10 and 17 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 Supervision and Regulation The common stock of the Company is subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the qualification requirements of the California Corporate Securities Law of 1968, as amended. The Company is also subject to the periodic reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which include, but are not limited to, the filing of annual, quarterly and other current reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. NVB is chartered by the California Department of Financial Institutions (“DFI”), which rules and regulations are administered by its Commissioner (the “Commissioner”). NVB’s deposits are insured by the FDIC, and NVB is a member of the Federal Reserve System. Consequently, NVB is subject to the supervision of, and is regularly examined by, the Commissioner and the Board of Governors. Such supervision and regulation include comprehensive reviews of all major aspects of the Bank’s business and condition, including its capital ratios, allowance for loan and lease losses and other factors. However, no inference should be drawn that such authorities have approved any such factors. NVB is required to file reports with the Commissioner and the FRB and provide such additional information as the Commissioner a nd the FRB may require. The Company is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “Bank Holding Company Act”), and is registered as such with, and subject to the supervision of, the Board of Governors. The Company is required to obtain the approval of the Board of Governors before it may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of the voting shares of any bank if, after giving effect to such acquisition of shares, the Company would own or control more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank. The Bank Holding Company Act prohibits the Company from acquiring any voting shares of, or interest in, all or substantially all of the assets of, a bank located outside the State of California unless such an acquisition is specifically authorized by the laws o f the state in which such bank is located. Any such interstate acquisition is also subject to the provisions of the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994. The Company, and its subsidiary, NVB, are deemed to be “affiliates” within the meaning of that term as defined in the Federal Reserve Act. This means, for example, that there are limitations (a) on loans between affiliates, and (b) on investments by NVB in affiliates’ stock as collateral for loans to any borrower. The Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to certain restrictions with respect to engaging in the underwriting, public sale and distribution of securities. The Board of Governors and the FDIC have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for evaluating the capital adequacy of bank holding companies and banks. The guidelines are designed to make capital requirements sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banking organizations, to take into account off-balance sheet exposures and to aid in making the definition of bank capital uniform internationally. Under the guidelines, the Company and its banking subsidiaries are required to maintain capital equal to at least 8% of its assets and commitments to extend credit, weighted by risk, of which at least 4% must consist primarily of common equity (including retained earnings) and the remainder may consist of subordinated debt, cumulative preferred stock, or a limited amount of loan loss reserves. The Company and its banking subsidiaries are subject to regulations issued by the Board of Governors and the FDIC, which require maintenance of a certain level of capital. These regulations impose two capital standards: a risk-based capital standard and a leverage capital standard. Assets, commitments to extend credit and off-balance sheet items are categorized according to risk and certain assets considered to present less risk than others permit maintenance of capital at less than the 8% ratio. For example, most home mortgage loans are placed in a 50% risk category and therefore require maintenance of capital equal to 4% of such loans, while commercial loans are placed in a 100% risk category and therefore require maintenance of capital equal to 8% of such loans. Under the Board of Governors’ risk-based capital guidelines, assets reported on an institution’s balance sheet and certain off-balance sheet items are assigned to risk categories, each of which has an assigned risk weight. Capital ratios are calculated by dividing the institution’s qualifying capital by its period-end risk-weighted assets. The guidelines establish two categories of qualifying capital: Tier 1 capital (defined to include common shareholders’ equity and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock) and Tier 2 capital which includes, among other items, limited life (and in case of banks, cumulative) preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt and a limited amount of reserve for credit losses. Tier 2 capital may also include up to 45% of the pretax net unrealized gains on certain available-for-sale equity securities having readily determinable fair values (i.e. the excess, if any, of fair market value over the book value or historical cost of the investment security). The federal regulatory agencies reserve the right to exclude all or a portion of the unrealized gains upon a determination that the equity securities are not prudently valued. Unrealized gains and losses on other types of assets, such as bank premises and available-for-sale debt securities, are not included in Tier 2 capital, but may be taken into account in the evaluation of overall capital adequacy and net unrealized losses on available-for-sale equity securities will continue to be deducted from Tier 1 capital as a cushion against risk. Each institution is required to maintain a risk-based capital ratio (including Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) of 8%, of which at least half must be Tier 1 capital. 5 Under the Board of Governors’ leverage capital standard, an institution is required to maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to the sum of its quarterly average total assets and quarterly average reserve for loan losses, less intangibles not included in Tier 1 capital. Period-end assets may be used in place of quarterly average total assets on a case-by-case basis. The Board of Governors and the FDIC have adopted a minimum leverage ratio for bank holding companies as a supplement to the risk-weighted capital guidelines. The leverage ratio establishes a minimum Tier 1 ratio of 3% (Tier 1 capital to total assets) for the highest rated bank holding companies or those that have implemented the risk-based capital market risk measure. All other bank holding companies must maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% with higher leverage capital ratios required for bank holding companies that have significant financial and/or operational weakness, a high risk profile, or are undergoing or anticipating rapid growth. At December 31, 2009, NVB and the Company were in compliance with the risk-based capital and leverage ratios described above. See Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, and Note 17 to the Financial Statements incorporated by reference therein, for a listing of the Company’s and Bank’s risk-based capital ratios at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The Board of Governors, the OCC and FDIC have adopted regulations implementing a system of prompt corrective action for insured financial institutions pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and Section 131 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”). The regulations establish five capital categories with the following characteristics: (1) “Well capitalized” - consisting of institutions with a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater and a leverage ratio of 5% or greater, and the institution is not subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; (2) “Adequately capitalized& #8221; - consisting of institutions with a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater and a leverage ratio of 4% or greater, and the institution does not meet the definition of a “well capitalized” institution; (3) “Undercapitalized” - consisting of institutions with a total risk-based capital ratio less than 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4%, or a leverage ratio of less than 4%; (4) “Significantly undercapitalized” - consisting of institutions with a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3%, or a leverage ratio of less than 3%; (5) “Critically undercapitalized” - consisting of an institution with a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2%. NVB is considered “well capitalized” under the framework for prompt corrective action. The regulations established procedures for classification of financial institutions within the capital categories, filing and reviewing capital restoration plans required under the regulations and procedures for issuance of directives by the appropriate regulatory agency, among other matters. The regulations impose restrictions upon all institutions to refrain from certain actions which would cause an institution to be classified within any one of the three “undercapitalized” categories, such as declaration of dividends or other capital distributions or payment of management fees, if following the distribution or payment the institution would be classified within one of the “undercapitalized” categories. In addition, institutions which are classified in one of the three “undercapitalized” categories are subject to certain mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions. Mandatory supervisory actions include (1) increased monitoring and review by the appropriate federal banking agency; (2) implementation of a capital restoration plan; (3) total asset growth restrictions; and (4) limitation upon acquisitions, branch expansion, and new business activities without prior approval of the appropriate federal banking agency. Discretionary supervisory actions may include (1) requirements to augment capital; (2) restrictions upon affiliate transactions; (3) restrictions upon deposit gathering activities and interest rates paid; (4) replacement of senior executive officers and directors; (5) restrictions upon activities of the institution and its affiliates; (6) requiring divestiture or sale of the institution; and (7) any other supervisory action that the appropriate federal banking agency determines is necessary to further the purposes of the regulations. Further, the federal banking agencies may not accept a ca pital restoration plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company under the guaranty is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5 percent of the depository institution’s total assets at the time it became undercapitalized, and (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it were “significantly undercapitalized.” FDICIA also restricts the solici tation and acceptance of and interest rates payable on brokered deposits by insured depository institutions that are not “well capitalized.” An “undercapitalized” institution is not allowed to solicit deposits by offering rates of interest that are significantly higher than the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits in the particular institution’s normal market areas or in the market areas in which such deposits would otherwise be accepted. 6 Any financial institution which is classified as “critically undercapitalized” must be placed in conservatorship or receivership within 90 days of such determination unless it is also determined that some other course of action would better serve the purposes of the regulations. Critically undercapitalized institutions are also prohibited from making (but not accruing) any payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt without the prior approval of the FDIC and the FDIC must prohibit a critically undercapitalized institution from taking certain other actions without its prior approval, including (1) entering into any material transaction other than in the usual course of business, including investment expansion, acquisition, sale of assets or other similar actions; (2) extending credit for any highly leveraged transa ction; (3) amending articles or bylaws unless required to do so to comply with any law, regulation or order; (4) making any material change in accounting methods; (5) engaging in certain affiliate transactions; (6) paying excessive compensation or bonuses; and (7) paying interest on new or renewed liabilities at rates which would increase the weighted average costs of funds beyond prevailing rates in the institution’s normal market areas. Under FDICIA, the federal financial institution agencies have adopted regulations which require institutions to establish and maintain comprehensive written real estate lending policies which address certain lending considerations, including loan-to-value limits, loan administrative policies, portfolio diversification standards, and documentation, approval and reporting requirements. FDICIA further generally prohibits an insured state bank from engaging as a principal in any activity that is impermissible for a national bank, absent an FDIC determination that the activity would not pose a significant risk to the Bank Insurance Fund, and that the bank is, and will continue to be, within applicable capital standards. Similar restrictions apply to subsidiaries of insured state banks. The Company does not currently intend to engage in any activities which would be restricted or prohibited under FDICIA. The Federal Financial Institution Examination Counsel (“FFIEC”) on December 13, 1996, approved an updated Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System (“UFIRS”). In addition to the five components traditionally included in the so-called “CAMEL” rating system which has been used by bank examiners for a number of years to classify and evaluate the soundness of financial institutions (including capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings and liquidity), UFIRS includes for all bank regulatory examinations conducted on or after January 1, 1997, a new rating for a sixth category identified as sensitivity to market risk. Ratings in this category are intended to reflect the degree to which changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices may adversely affect an i nstitution’s earnings and capital. The revised rating system is identified as the “CAMELS” system. The federal financial institution agencies have established bases for analysis and standards for assessing a financial institution’s capital adequacy in conjunction with the risk-based capital guidelines, including analysis of interest rate risk, concentrations of credit risk, risk posed by non-traditional activities, and factors affecting overall safety and soundness. The safety and soundness standards for insured financial institutions include analysis of (1) internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; (2) loan documentation; (3) credit underwriting; (4) interest rate exposure; (5) asset growth; (6) compensation, fees and benefits; and (7) excessive compensation for executive officers, directors or principal shareholders which could lead to material financial loss. If an agency determines that an institut ion fails to meet any standard, the agency may require the financial institution to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. If the agency requires submission of a compliance plan and the institution fails to timely submit an acceptable plan or to implement an accepted plan, the agency must require the institution to correct the deficiency. The agencies may elect to initiate enforcement action in certain cases rather than rely on an existing plan, particularly where failure to meet one or more of the standards could threaten the safe and sound operation of the institution. Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) regulations evaluate banks’ lending to low and moderate income individuals and businesses across a four-point scale from “outstanding” to “substantial noncompliance,” and are a factor in regulatory review of applications to merge, establish new branches or form bank holding companies. In addition, any bank rated in “substantial noncompliance” with the CRA regulations may be subject to enforcement proceedings. NVB currently has a rating of “satisfactory” for CRA compliance. The Company’s ability to pay cash dividends is subject to restrictions set forth in the California General Corporation Law. Funds for payment of any cash dividends by the Company would be obtained from its investments as well as dividends and/or management fees from NVB. The ability of NVB to pay cash dividends and/or management fees is subject to restrictions set forth in the California Financial Code as well as restrictions established by the FDIC and the FRB. See Items 1A and 5 below for further information regarding the payment of cash dividends by the Company and NVB. 7 The Board of Directors of the Company decides whether to declare and pay dividends after consideration of the Company’s earnings, financial condition, future capital needs, regulatory requirements and other factors as the Board of Directors may deem relevant. Quarterly cash dividends declared and distributed to the shareholders of the Company were $0.10 per share for 2008 and 2007. On January 29, 2009, primarily as a result of the Company’s operating performance for 2008, the Board of Directors determined that it was in the best interest of the Company to suspend indefinitely the payment of quarterly cash dividends on its common stock, beginning in 2009. The Company relies upon distributions from NVB in the form of cash dividends in order to pay dividends to its shareholders. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System generally prohibits a bank holding company from declaring or paying a cash dividend which would impose undue pressure on the capital of a subsidiary bank or would be funded only through borrowing or other arrangements that might adversely affect a bank holding company’s financial position. The Federal Reserve Board policy is that a bank holding company should not continue its existing rate of cash dividends on its common stock unless its net income is sufficient to fully fund each dividend and its prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with its capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. On January 6, 2010, the Company and NVB entered into a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (the “Federal Reserve Bank”). Among other things, the Written Agreement restricts the payment of dividends and any payments on trust preferred securities, any reduction in capital or the purchase or redemption of stock without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements below regarding “Regulatory Matters.” The Patriot Act On October 26, 2001, President Bush signed the USA Patriot Act (the “Patriot Act”), which includes provisions pertaining to domestic security, surveillance procedures, border protection, and terrorism laws to be administered by the Secretary of the Treasury. Title III of the Patriot Act entitled, “International Money Laundering Abatement and Anti-Terrorist Financing Act of 2001” includes amendments to the Bank Secrecy Act which expand the responsibilities of financial institutions in regard to anti-money laundering activities with particular emphasis upon international money laundering and terrorism financing activities through designated correspondent and private banking accounts. Effective December 25, 2001, Section 313(a) of the Patriot Act prohibits any insured financial institution such as North Valley Bank, from providing correspondent accounts to foreign banks which do not have a physical presence in any country (designated as “shell banks”), subject to certain exceptions for regulated affiliates of foreign banks. Section 313(a) also requires financial institutions to take reasonable steps to ensure that foreign bank correspondent accounts are not being used to indirectly provide banking services to foreign shell banks, and Section 319(b) requires financial institutions to maintain records of the owners and agent for service of process of any such foreign banks with whom correspondent accounts have been established. Effective July 23, 2002, Section 312 of the Patriot Act created a requirement for special due diligence for correspondent accounts and private banking accounts. Under Section 312, each financial institution that establishes, maintains, administers, or manages a private banking account or a correspondent account in the United States for a non-United States person, including a foreign individual visiting the United States, or a representative of a non-United States person shall establish appropriate, specific, and, where necessary, enhanced, due diligence policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to detect and record instances of money laundering through those accounts. The Patriot Act contains various provisions in addition to Sections 313(a) and 312 that affect the operations of financial institutions by encouraging cooperation among financial institutions, regulatory authorities and law enforcement authorities with respect to individuals, entities and organizations engaged in, or reasonably suspected of engaging in, terrorist acts or money laundering activities. The Company and North Valley Bank are not currently aware of any account relationships between North Valley Bank and any foreign bank or other person or entity as described above under Sections 313(a) or 312 of the Patriot Act. Certain surveillance provisions of the Patriot Act were scheduled to expire on December 31, 2005, and actions to restrict the use of the Patriot Act surveillance provisions were filed by the ACLU and other organizations. On March 9, 2006, after temporary extensions of the Patriot Act, President Bush signed the “USA Patriot Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005” and the “USA Patriot Act Additional Reauthorizing Amendments Act of 2006,” which reauthorized all expiring provisions of the Patriot Act and extended certain provisions related to surveillance and production of business records until December 31, 2009. The extended deadline for those provisions was subsequently further extended to February 28, 2010. On February 24 and 25, 2010, the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, voted to furt her extend the deadline until December 31, 2010. President Obama signed the extension legislation on February 27, 2010. 8 The effects which the Patriot Act and any additional legislation enacted by Congress may have upon financial institutions is uncertain; however, such legislation could increase compliance costs and thereby potentially may have an adverse effect upon the Company’s results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 On July 30, 2002, President George W. Bush signed into law the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Act”), legislation designed to address certain issues of corporate governance and accountability. The key provisions of the Act and the rules promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Act include the following: ● Expanded oversight of the accounting profession by creating a new independent public company oversight board to be monitored by the SEC. ● Revised rules on auditor independence to restrict the nature of non-audit services provided to audit clients and to require such services to be pre-approved by the audit committee. ● Improved corporate responsibility through mandatory listing standards relating to audit committees, certifications of periodic reports by the CEO and CFO and making issuer interference with an audit a crime. ● Enhanced financial disclosures, including periodic reviews for largest issuers and real time disclosure of material company information. ● Enhanced criminal penalties for a broad array of white collar crimes and increases in the statute of limitations for securities fraud lawsuits. ● Disclosure of whether a company has adopted a code of ethics that applies to the company’s principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, and disclosure of any amendments or waivers to such code of ethics. ● Disclosure of whether a company’s audit committee of its board of directors has a member of the audit committee who qualifies as an “audit committee financial expert.” ● A prohibition on insider trading during pension plan black-out periods. ● Disclosure of off-balance sheet transactions. ● A prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers. ● Conditions on the use of non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measures. ● Standards of professional conduct for attorneys, requiring attorneys having an attorney-client relationship with a company, among other matters, to report “up the ladder” to the audit committee, to another board committee or to the entire board of directors regarding certain material violations. ● Expedited filing requirements for Form 4 reports of changes in beneficial ownership of securities, reducing the filing deadline to within 2 business days of the date on which an obligation to report is triggered. ● Accelerated filing requirements for reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q by public companies which qualify as “accelerated filers,” with a phased-in reduction of the filing deadline for Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. ● Disclosure concerning website access to reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, by “accelerated filers” as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports and material are filed with or furnished to the SEC. ● Rules requiring national securities exchanges and national securities associations to prohibit the listing of any security whose issuer does not meet audit committee standards established pursuant to the Act. The Company’s securities are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Consequently, in addition to the rules promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Act, the Company must also comply with the listing standards applicable to all NASDAQ listed companies. The NASDAQ listing standards applicable to the Company include standards related to (i) director independence, (ii) executive session meetings of the board, (iii) requirements for audit, nominating and compensation committee charters, membership qualifications and procedures, (iv) shareholder approval of equity compensation arrangements, and (v) code of conduct requirements that comply with the code of ethics under the Act. 9 The effect of the Act upon the Company is uncertain; however, the Company has incurred and it is anticipated that it will continue to incur increased costs to comply with the Act and the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the Act by the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASDAQ and other regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the Company or the issuance and listing of its securities. The Company does not currently anticipate, however, that compliance with the Act and such rules and regulations will have a material adverse effect upon its financial position or results of its operations or its cash flows. The Company changed from an accelerated filer to a non-accelerated filer in 2008. Management is required to report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, but an external attestation report o f the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting was not required for the year ended December 31, 2008, and is not required for the year ended December 31, 2009. See Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” below. The California Corporate Disclosure Act Effective January 1, 2003, the California Corporate Disclosure Act (the “CCD Act”) required publicly traded corporations incorporated or qualified to do business in California to disclose information about their past history, auditors, directors and officers. Effective September 28, 2004, the CCD Act, as currently in effect and codified at California Corporations Code Section 1502.1, requires the Company to file with the California Secretary of State and disclose within 150 days after the end of its fiscal year certain information including the following: ● The name of the company’s independent registered accounting firm and a description of services, if any, performed for a company during the previous two fiscal years and the period from the end of the most recent fiscal year to the date of filing; ● The annual compensation paid to each director and the five most highly compensated non-director executive officers (including the CEO and CFO) during the most recent fiscal year, including all plan and non-plan compensation for all services rendered to a company as specified in Item 402 of Regulation S-K such as grants, awards or issuance of stock, stock options and similar equity-based compensation; ● A description of any loans made to a director at a “preferential” loan rate during the company’s two most recent fiscal years, including the amount and terms of the loans; ● Whether any bankruptcy was filed by a company or any of its directors or executive officers within the previous 10 years; ● Whether any director or executive officer of a company has been convicted of fraud during the previous 10 years; and ● A description of any material pending legal proceedings other than ordinary routine litigation as specified in Item 103 of Regulation S-K and a description of such litigation where the company was found legally liable by a final judgment or order. The Company does not currently anticipate that compliance with the CCD Act will have a material adverse effect upon its financial position or results of its operations or its cash flows. Competition At June 30, 2009, commercial and savings banks in competition with the Company had 469 banking offices in the counties of Del Norte, Humboldt, Mendocino, Placer, Shasta, Solano, Sonoma, Trinity and Yolo where the Company operates. In those 469 banking offices (which include the Company’s 25), there were $28.0 billion in total deposits of which the Company had an overall share of 2.8%. Additionally, the Company competes with thrifts and, to a lesser extent, credit unions, finance companies and other financial service providers for deposit and loan customers. Larger banks may have a competitive advantage over the Company because of higher lending limits and major advertising and marketing campaigns. They also perform services, such as trust services and international banking which the Company is not authorized nor prepared to offer currently. The Company has arranged with correspondent banks and with others to provide some of these services for their customers. As of December 31, 2009, NVB’s lending limit to any one borrower is $25,525,000 on a fully secured basis and $15,315,000 on an unsecured basis. These limits are adequate in most instances to compete for lending relationships within the markets we currently serve. In order to compete with the major financial institutions in its primary service areas, the Company, through NVB, utilizes to the fullest extent possible, the flexibility which is accorded by its independent status. This includes an emphasis on specialized services, local promotional activity, and personal contacts by the officers, directors and employees of the Company. NVB also seeks to provide special services and programs for individuals in its primary service area who are employed in the agricultural, professional and business fields, such as loans for equipment, furniture, tools of the trade or expansion of practices or businesses. 10 Banking is a business that depends heavily on net interest income. Net interest income is defined as the difference between the interest rate paid to obtain deposits and other borrowings and the interest rate received on loans extended to customers and on securities held in the Bank’s investment portfolio. Commercial banks compete with savings and loan associations, credit unions, other financial institutions and other entities for funds. For instance, yields on corporate and government debt securities and other commercial paper affect the ability of commercial banks to attract and hold deposits. Commercial banks also compete for loans with savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, mortgage companies and other lending institutions. Monetary and Fiscal Policies The net interest income of the Company, and to a large extent, its earnings, are affected not only by general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, but also by the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States as set by statutes and as implemented by federal agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board can and does implement national monetary policy, such as seeking to curb inflation and combat recession by its open market operations in United States government securities, adjustments in the amount of interest free reserves that banks and other financial institutions are required to maintain, and adjustments to the discount rates applicable to borrowing by banks from the Federal Reserve Board. These activities influence the growth of bank loans, investments and deposits and also affect inter est rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The nature and timing of any future changes in monetary policies and their impact on the Company are not predictable. Deposit Insurance The Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the “Reform Act”) had the effect of merging the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund into a new Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). This change was made effective on March 31, 2006. The FDIC released final regulations under the Reform Act on November 2, 2006 that establish a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment rate system for members of the DIF to insure, among other matters, that there will be sufficient assessment income for repayment of DIF obligations and to further refine the differentiation of risk profiles among institutions as a basis for assessments. Under the new assessment rate system, the FDIC set the assessment rates (effective January 1, 2007) for most institutions from $0.05 to $0.07 per $100 of insured deposits an d established a Designated Reserve Ratio (“DRR”) for the DIF during 2007 of 1.25% of insured deposits. The new assessment rate system consolidates the nine categories of the prior assessment system into four categories (Risk Categories I, II, III and IV) and three Supervisory Groups (A, B and C) based upon institution’s capital levels and supervisory ratings. Risk Category I includes all well capitalized institutions with the highest supervisory ratings. Risk Category II includes adequately capitalized institutions that are assigned to Supervisory Groups A and B. Risk Category III includes all undercapitalized institutions that are assigned to Supervisory Groups A and B and institutions assigned to Supervisory Group C that are not undercapitalized but have a low supervisory rating. Risk Category IV includes all undercapitalized institutions that are assigned to Supervisory Group C. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was signed into law. The EESA temporarily raised the limit on federal deposit insurance coverage provided by the FDIC from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. On May 20, 2009, this limit was extended to December 31, 2013. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC implemented the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the “TLGP”) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the financial system. The TLGP includes the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (the “TAGP”). The TAGP offers full guarantee for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts held at FDIC-insured depository institutions. The unlimited deposit coverage was voluntary for eligible institutions and was in addition to the $250,000 FDIC deposit insurance per account that was included as part of the EESA. The insured deposit limits are currently scheduled to return to $100,000 on July 1, 2010, except for certain retirement accounts. The TAGP coverage became effective on October 14, 2008 and is scheduled to continue for participating institutions until June 30, 2010. In additi on to the existing risk-based deposit insurance premium assessed on such deposits, TAGP participants will be assessed, on a quarterly basis, an annualized fee, based on the participant’s deposit insurance risk rating up to 25 basis points, on balances in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts that exceed the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. The Bank has elected to participate in the TAGP. 11 On December 16, 2008, the FDIC approved an earlier proposed seven basis point rate increase for the first quarter 2009 assessment period effective January 1, 2009 as part of the DIF restoration plan to achieve a minimum DRR of 1.15% within five years. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued a press release with attached final rule dated February 26, 2009, which established increased assessment rates effective as of April 1, 2009 and included adjustments to improve differentiation of risk profiles among institutions. The FDIC concurrently adopted an interim rule that imposes a 20 basis point emergency special assessment effective June 30, 2009, to be collected from all insured depository institutions on September 30, 2009, in addition to the imposition of an emergency special assessment of up to 10 basis points at the end of any calendar quarter after June 30, 2009 if the FDIC determines the DRR will fall to a level that will adversely affect public confidence, among other factors. The changes to differentiate risk profiles will require riskier institutions to pay higher assessment rat es based on classification into one of four risk categories. Within each category, the FDIC will assess higher rates to institutions with a significant reliance on secured liabilities, which generally raises the FDIC’s loss in the event of failure without providing additional assessment revenue. Under the final rule, assessments will be higher for institutions with a significant reliance on brokered deposits but, for well-managed and well-capitalized institutions, only when accompanied by rapid asset growth. Also incentives will be provided in the form of a reduction in assessment rates for institutions to hold long-term unsecured debt and, for smaller institutions, high levels of Tier 1 capital. Together, the changes will improve the way the system differentiates risk among insured institutions and help ensure that a minimum DRR of at least 1.15% by the end of 2013. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC amended its regulations and required all insured financial institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, unless they were notified they were exempt from the prepayment. The FDIC exempted the Bank from the requirement to prepay. The FDIC also approved a three basis point increase in the assessment rate applied to insured financial institutions beginning in 2011. Based upon the announced increase in assessments for insured financial institutions in 2009 as described above and the continuing adverse economic conditions impacting financial institutions generally, which may necessitate further increases in assessments, the Bank anticipates that such assessments will have a significantly greater impact upon operating expenses in 2010 compared to 2009. Interstate Banking Since 1996, California law implementing certain provisions of prior federal law has (1) permitted interstate merger transactions; (2) prohibited interstate branching through the acquisition of a branch business unit located in California without acquisition of the whole business unit of the California bank; and (3) prohibited interstate branching through de novo establishment of California branch offices. Initial entry into California by an out-of-state institution must be accomplished by acquisition of or merger with an existing whole bank, which has been in existence for at least five years. National Banks The federal financial institution agencies, especially the OCC and the Board of Governors, have taken steps to increase the types of activities in which national banks and bank holding companies can engage, and to make it easier to engage in such activities. The OCC has issued regulations permitting national banks to engage in a wider range of activities through subsidiaries. “Eligible institutions” (those national banks that are well capitalized, have a high overall rating and a satisfactory or better CRA rating, and are not subject to an enforcement order) may engage in activities related to banking through operating subsidiaries subject to an expedited application process. In addition, a national bank may apply to the OCC to engage in an activity through a subsidiary in which the bank itself may not engage. Glass-Steagall Act The Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (the “FSMA”) eliminated most of the remaining depression-era “firewalls” between banks, securities firms and insurance companies which was established by the Banking Act of 1933, also known as the Glass-Steagall Act (“Glass-Steagall). Glass-Steagall sought to insulate banks as depository institutions from the perceived risks of securities dealing and underwriting, and related activities. The FSMA repealed Section 20 of Glass-Steagall, which prohibited banks from affiliating with securities firms. Bank holding companies that can qualify as “financial holding companies” can now acquire securities firms or create them as subsidiaries, and securities firms can now acquire banks or start banking activities through a financial holding company. The FSMA includes provisions which permit national banks to conduct financial activities through a subsidiary that are permissible for a national bank to engage in directly, as well as certain activities authorized by statute, or that are financial in nature or incidental to financial activities to the same extent as permitted to a “financial holding company” or its affiliates. This liberalization of United States banking and financial services regulation applies both to domestic institutions and foreign institutions conducting business in the United States. Consequently, the common ownership of banks, securities firms and insurance firms is now possible, as is the conduct of commercial banking, merchant banking, investment management, securities underwriting and insurance within a single financial institution using a “financial holding company” structure authorized by the FSMA. 12 Prior to the FSMA, significant restrictions existed on the affiliation of banks with securities firms and on the direct conduct by banks of securities dealing and underwriting and related securities activities. Banks were also (with minor exceptions) prohibited from engaging in insurance activities or affiliating with insurers. The FSMA removed these restrictions and substantially eliminated the prohibitions under the Bank Holding Company Act on affiliations between banks and insurance companies. Bank holding companies, which qualify as financial holding companies through an application process, can now insure, guarantee, or indemnify against loss, harm, damage, illness, disability, or death; issue annuities; and act as a principal, agent, or broker regarding such insurance services. In order for a commercial bank to affiliate with a securities firm or an insurance company pursuant to the FSMA, its bank holding company must qualify as a financial holding company. A bank holding company will qualify if (i) its banking subsidiaries are “well capitalized” and “well managed” and (ii) it files with the Board of Governors a certification to such effect and a declaration that it elects to become a financial holding company. The amendment of the Bank Holding Company Act now permits financial holding companies to engage in activities, and acquire companies engaged in activities, that are financial in nature or incidental to such financial activities. Financial holding companies are also permitted to engage in activities that are complementary to financial activities if the Board of Governors determin es that the activity does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general. These standards expand upon the list of activities “closely related to banking” which have to date defined the permissible activities of bank holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act. One further effect of FSMA was to require that federal financial institution and securities regulatory agencies prescribe regulations to implement the policy that financial institutions must respect the privacy of their customers and protect the security and confidentiality of customers’ non-public personal information. These regulations will require, in general, that financial institutions (1) may not disclose non-public personal information of customers to non-affiliated third parties without notice to their customers, who must have opportunity to direct that such information not be disclosed; (2) may not disclose customer account numbers except to consumer reporting agencies; and (3) must give prior disclosure of their privacy policies before establishing new customer relationships. Discharge of Materials into the Environment Compliance with federal, state and local regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment may have a substantial effect on the capital expenditure, earnings and competitive position of the Company in the event of lender liability or environmental lawsuits. Under federal law, liability for environmental damage and the cost of cleanup may be imposed upon any person or entity that is an “owner” or “operator” of contaminated property. State law provisions, which were modeled after federal law, are substantially similar. Congress established an exemption under Federal law for lenders from “owner” and/or “operator” liability, which provides that “owner” and/or “operator” do not include “a person, who, without participating in the management of a vessel or facility, holds indicia of ownership primarily to protect his security interests in the vessel or facility.” In the event that the Company was held liable as an owner or operator of a toxic property, it could be responsible for the entire cost of environmental damage and cleanup. Such an outcome could have a serious effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition depending upon the amount of liability assessed and the amount of cleanup required. The Company takes reasonable steps to avoid loaning against property that may be contaminated. In order to identify possible hazards, the Company requires that all fee appraisals contain a reference to a visual assessment of hazardous waste by the appraiser. Further, on loans proposed to be secured by industrial, commercial or agricultural real estate, an Environmental Questionnaire must be completed by the borrower and any areas of concern addressed. Additionally, the borrower is required to review and sign a Hazardous Substance Certificate and Indemnity at the time the note is signed. 13 If the investigation reveals and if certain warning signs are discovered, but it cannot be easily ascertained, that an actual environmental hazard exists, the Company may require that the owner/buyer of the property, at his/her expense, have an Environmental Inspection performed by an insured, bonded environmental engineering firm acceptable to the Company. Recent Regulatory Developments In response to global credit and liquidity issues involving a number of financial institutions, the United States government, particularly the United States Department of the Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) and the Federal financial institution regulatory agencies, have taken a variety of extraordinary measures designed to restore confidence in the financial markets and to strengthen financial institutions, including capital injections, guarantees of bank liabilities and the acquisition of illiquid assets from banks. TARP and the CPP. On October 3, 2008, the EESA was signed into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury was granted the authority to take a range of actions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets and has implemented several programs, including the purchase by the U.S. Treasury of certain troubled assets from financial institutions under the Troubled Asset Relief Program” (the “TARP”) and the direct purchase by the U.S. Treasury of equity securities of financial institutions under the Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”). On October 24, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced plans to direct $250 billion of the TARP funding into the CPP to acquire preferred stock investments in bank holding companies and ban ks. Bank holding companies and banks desiring to participate in the CPP as a Qualifying Financial Institution (“QFI”) must agree to comply with certain standardized terms and conditions specified by the U.S. Treasury. The Company is not a participant in the CPP and does not anticipate that it will become a participant in the CPP. Financial Stability Plan. On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced a Financial Stability Plan (the “FSP”) as a comprehensive approach to strengthening the financial system and addressing the credit crisis. The Plan includes a Capital Assistance Program (the “CAP”) that is intended to serve as a bridge to raising private capital and to ensure sufficient capital to preserve or increase lending in a worse-than-expected economic deterioration. Eligibility to participate in the CAP will be consistent with the criteria for QFI’s under the CPP. Eligible institutions with consolidated assets in excess of $100 billion will be able to obtain capital under the CAP, subject to a supervisory review process and comprehensive stress test assessment of the losses that could occur over a two year period in the future across a range of economic scenarios, including conditions more severe than anticipated or as typically used in capital planning processes. Eligible institutions with consolidated assets below $100 billion will be able to obtain capital under the CAP after a supervisory review. As announced, the CAP includes issuance of a convertible preferred security to the U.S. Treasury at a discount to the participating institution’s stock price as of February 9, 2009, subject to a dividend to be determined. The security instrument will be designed to incentivize institutions to replace the CAP capital with private capital or redeem it. Institutions participating in the CPP under TARP may also be permitted to exchange their CPP preferred stock for the convertible preferred CAP security. American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”) was signed into law. Section 7001 of the ARRA amended Section 111 of the EESA in its entirety. While the U.S. Treasury must promulgate regulations to implement the restrictions and standards set forth in Section 7001, the ARRA, among other things, significantly expands the executive compensation restrictions previously imposed by the EESA. Such restrictions apply to any entity that has received or will receive financial assistance under the TARP, and shall generally continue to apply for as long as any obligation arising from financial assistance provided under the TARP, including preferred stock issued under the CPP, remains outstanding. These ARRA restrictions do not apply to any TARP recipient during such time when the federal government (i) only holds any warrants to purchase common stock of such recipient or (ii) holds no preferred stock or warrants to purchase common stock of such recipient. Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility. On March 3, 2009, the U.S. Treasury and the Board of Governors announced the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (the “TALF”). The TALF is one of the programs under the Financial Stability Plan announced by the U.S. Treasury on February 10, 2009. The TALF is intended to help stimulate the economy by facilitating securitization activities which allow lenders to increase the availability of credit to consumers and businesses. Under the TALF, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (“FRBNY”) will lend up to $200 billion to provide financing to investors as support for purchases of certain AAA-rated asset-backed securities (“ABS”) initially for newly and recently originated auto loans, credit card loa ns, student loans, and SBA-guaranteed small business loans anticipated to be funded on March 25, 2009, and rental, commercial, and government vehicle fleet leases, small ticket equipment, heavy equipment, and agricultural equipment loans and leases proposed to be funded in April. 14 ABS fundings are held monthly. The FRBNY presently intends to cease making new loans on June 30, 2010, but loans collateralized by certain types of ABS will cease on March 31, 2010, unless the Board of Governors extends the facility. The loan asset classes include commercial mortgages, non-Agency residential mortgages, and/or other asset classes. Credit extensions under the TALF will be non-recourse loans to eligible borrowers secured by eligible collateral for a three-year term with interest paid monthly. Any U.S. company that owns eligible collateral may borrow from the TALF, provided the company maintains an account with a primary dealer who will act as agent for the borrower and deliver eligible collateral to the FRBNY custodian in connection with the loan funding. The FRBYN will create a special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) to purchase and manage any assets received by the FRBYN in connection with the TALF loans. The U.S. Treasury will provide $20 billion of credit protection to the FRBNY in connection with the TALF through TARP by purchasing subordinated debt issued by the SPV to finance the first $20 billion of asset purchases. If more than $20 billion in assets are purchased by the SPV, the FRBNY will lend additional funds to the SPV to finance such additional purchases. The FRBNY’s loan to the SPV will be senior to the TARP subordinated loan and secured by all of the assets of the SPV. Future Legislation and Regulation Certain legislative and regulatory proposals that could affect the Company and banking business in general are periodically introduced before the United States Congress, the California State Legislature and Federal and state government agencies. It is not known to what extent, if any, legislative proposals will be enacted and what effect such legislation would have on the structure, regulation and competitive relationships of financial institutions. It is likely, however, that such legislation could subject the Company and its subsidiary banks to increased regulation, disclosure and reporting requirements and increase competition and the Company’s cost of doing business. In addition to legislative changes, the various federal and state financial institution regulatory agencies frequently propose rules and regulations to implement and enforce already existing legislation. It cannot be predicted whether or in what form any such rules or regulations will be enacted or the effect that such and regulations may have on the Company and its subsidiary bank. Employees At December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately 341 employees, (which includes 320 full-time equivalent employees). None of the Company’s employees are represented by a labor union, and management considers its relations with employees to be good. Website Access Information on the Company and its subsidiary NVB may be obtained from the Company’s website www.novb.com. Copies of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto are available free of charge on the website as soon as they are published by the SEC through a link to the Edgar reporting system maintained by the SEC. Simply select the “About NVB Bancorp” menu item, then click on “Shareholder Relations” and then select the “SEC Filings” link. Also made available through the Company’s website are the Section 16 reports of ownership and changes in ownership of the Company’s common stock which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the directors and executive officers of the Company and by any persons who own more than ten percent of the outstanding shares of such stock. Information on the Company website is not incorporated by reference into this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks associated with the business of banking generally, as described above under Item 1 “Description of Business”, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results, future prospects and stock price can be adversely impacted by certain risk factors, as set forth below, any one of which could cause the Company’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from the Company’s anticipated future results. 15 Extensive Regulation of Banking. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by Federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance in all material respects with laws, rules and regulations applicable to the conduct of its business. Because the Company’s business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to it are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that these laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regul ations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict the Company’s ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by the Company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, or future prospects. Competition. Increased competition in the market of the Company’s subsidiary, North Valley Bank, may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, it may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the banking services that are offered by North Valley Bank in its service area. These competitors include national and super-regional banks, finance companies, investment banking and brokerage firms, credit unions, government-assisted farm credit programs, other community banks and technology-oriented financial institutions offering online services. In particular, North Valley Bank’s competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances, such as Internet-based banking services that cross traditional geographic bounds, enable more companies to provide financial services. If North Valley Bank is unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to continue its loan growth and level of deposits, which may adversely affect its and th e Company’s results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Dependence on Key Employees. The Company and its subsidiaries are dependent on the successful recruitment and retention of highly qualified personnel. Our ability to implement our business strategies is closely tied to the strengths of our chief executive officer and other key officers. Our key officers have extensive experience in the banking industry which is not easily replaced. Business banking, one of the Company’s principal lines of business, is dependent on relationship banking, in which Company personnel develop professional relationships with small business owners and officers of larger business customers who are responsible for the financial management of the companies they represent. If these employees were to leave the Company and become employed by a local comp eting bank, the Company could potentially lose business customers. In addition, the Company relies on its customer service staff to effectively serve the needs of its consumer customers. The Company very actively recruits for all open positions and management believes that employee relations are good. Growth Strategy. The Company pursued and continues to pursue a growth strategy which depends primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels. The Company may not be able to sustain this growth strategy without establishing new branches or new products. Therefore, the Company may expand in our current market by opening or acquiring branch offices or may expand into new markets or make strategic acquisitions of other financial institutions or branch offices. This expansion may require significant investments in equipment, technology, personnel and site locations. The Company cannot assure you of our success in implementing our growth strategy without corresponding increases in our noninterest expenses. In addition, growth through acquisit ions represents a component of our business strategy. The need to integrate the operations and personnel of acquired banks and branches may not always be successfully accomplished. Any inability to improve operating performance through integration and/or merger of operations, functions or banks could increase expenses and impact the Company’s performance. Governmental Fiscal and Monetary Policies. The business of banking is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. Such policies are beyond the control of the Company. The Company is particularly affected by the policies established by the Board of Governors in relation to the supply of money and credit in the United States. The instruments of monetary policy available to the Board of Governors can be used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits, and this can and does have a material effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Geographic Concentration. All of the business of the Company is located in the State of California and the banking offices of the Company are located in the Northern California Counties of Shasta, Trinity, Humboldt, Del Norte, Yolo, Solano, Sonoma, Placer and Mendocino. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in those counties. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets, and adverse economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, or affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, and generally impact our financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions in the State of California are su bject to various uncertainties at this time, including the budgetary and fiscal difficulties facing the State Government. The Company can provide no assurance that conditions in the California economy will not deteriorate further or that such deterioration will not adversely affect the Company. Commercial Loans. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 11% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial business loans, which may have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans. This increased credit risk is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the mobility of collateral, the effect of general economic conditions and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial business loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from t he cash flow of the borrower’s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial business loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Real Estate Values. A large portion of the loan portfolio of the Company is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2009, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 77% of the Company’s loan portfolio. A continuing substantial decline in the economy in general, or a continuing decline in real estate values in the Company’s primary operating market areas in particular, could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans and the value of mortgage-backed securities included in the available-for-sale investment portfolio, as well as the Company’s financial condition and results of operations in general and the market value for Company Common Stock. Acts of nature, including fires, earthquakes and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact the Company’s financial condition. Construction and Development Loans. At December 31, 2009, real estate construction loans totaled $92.1 million, or 15% of the total loan portfolio. Residential construction loans, including land acquisition and development, totaled $76.1 million or 83% of the Company’s real estate construction portfolio, and 13% of the total loan portfolio. Construction, land acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds are advanced on the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total fun ds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, speculative construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the completion of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or the guarantor to repay the principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan, a well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time. Other Real Estate Owned. Real estate acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosures is expected to be sold and is recorded at its fair value less estimated costs to sell (fair value). The amount, if any, by which the recorded amount of the loan exceeds the fair value less estimated costs to sell are charged to the allowance for loan or lease losses, if necessary. The Company’s earnings could be materially and adversely affected by various expenses associated with OREO, including personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments, and other expenses associated with property ownership. Also, any further decrease in market prices of real estate in our market areas may lead to additional OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. 17 Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan or lease defaults and non-performance, but its allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses. In addition, future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect the Company and therefore the Company’s operating results. The Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including c hanges in interest rates that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company’s loans and allowance for loan and lease losses. Although we believe that the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that it will not further increase the allowance for loan and lease losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Regulatory Restrictions. On January 6, 2010, as a follow-up to a recent examination of NVB, the Company and NVB entered into a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank. Among other things, the Written Agreement provides that the Company and the Bank shall submit to the Federal Reserve Bank their plans to enhance lending and credit administration functions, to maintain policies and procedures for the maintenance of an adequate allocation for loan and lease losses, to strengthen the management of commercial real estate concentrations and to update its capital plan in order to maintain capital ratios at or above the required minimums. The Written Agreement also restricts the payment of dividends and any payments on trust preferred securities, any reduction in capital and the purchase or redemption of stock without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Progress reports detailing the form and manner of all actions taken to secure compliance with the Written Agreement must be submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank at least quarterly. The failure of the Company or the Bank to comply with the Written Agreement may subject the Company and the Bank to additional regulatory restrictions. Each provision of the Written Agreement will remain effective and enforceable until stayed, modified, terminated or suspended by the Federal Reserve Bank. The Company believes it is in full compliance with the terms of the Written Agreement. The Company anticipates that NVB may be requested to enter into a similar agreement with the California Commissioner of Financial Institutions. The Effects of Legislation in Response to Current Credit Conditions. Legislation passed at the federal level and/or by the State of California in response to current conditions affecting credit markets could cause the Company to experience higher credit losses if such legislation reduces the amount that borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts with North Valley Bank. Such legislation could also result in the imposition of limitations upon North Valley Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or make foreclosure less economically feasible. Such events could result in increased loan losses and require a material increase in the allowance for loan losses and thereby adversely affect the Company’s results of op erations, financial condition, future prospects, profitability and stock price. Dilution of Common Stock. Shares of the Company’s common stock eligible for future sale could have a dilutive effect on the market for the common stock and could adversely affect the market price. The Articles of Incorporation of the Company currently authorize the issuance of 20,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 7,495,817 were outstanding at December 31, 2009. Pursuant to its stock option plans, at December 31, 2009, employees and directors of the Company had outstanding options to purchase 768,965 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2009, 279,991 shares of common stock remained available for grants under the Company’s stock option plans. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company common stock in public or private offerings could adversely affect the m arket price of common stock. Operating Losses. The Company is subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for such risks, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Business Confidence Uncertainty. The terrorist actions on September 11, 2001, and thereafter, plus military actions taken by the United States in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere, have had significant adverse effects upon the United States economy. Whether terrorist activities in the future and the actions taken by the United States and its allies in combating terrorism on a worldwide basis will adversely impact the Company, and the extent of such impact, is uncertain. However, such events have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the economy in the Company’s market areas. Such continued economic deterioration could adversely affect the Company’s future results of operations by, among other matters, reducing the demand for loans and other products and serv ices offered by the Company, increasing nonperforming loans and the amounts required to be reserved for loan losses, reducing the value of collateral held as security for the Company’s loans, and causing a decline in the Company’s stock price. 18 The Effects of Changes to FDIC Insurance Coverage Limits and Assessments. These changes are uncertain and increased premiums may adversely affect the Company. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF. Current economic conditions have increased expectations for bank failures. In such event, the FDIC would take control of failed banks and guarantee payment of deposits up to applicable insured limits from the DIF. Insurance premium assessments to insured financial institutions may increase as necessary to maintain adequate funding of the DIF. The EESA of 2008 included a provision for an increase in the amount of deposits insured by the FDIC to $250,000, which is currently scheduled to remain in effect through December 31, 2013. On January 1, 2014, the standard insurance amount is scheduled to return to $100,000 per depositor for all account categories except IRAs and other certain retirement accounts, which will remain at $250,000 per depositor. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the TLGP that provides unlimited deposit insurance on funds in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. All eligible institutions will be covered under the program for the first 30 days without incurring any costs. After the initial per iod, participating institutions will be assessed a 10 basis point surcharge on the additional insured deposits through the scheduled end of the program, currently June 30, 2010. Increased premiums will adversely impact the Company’s earnings. It is not clear how depositors may respond regarding the increase in insurance coverage. Despite the increase, some depositors may reduce the amount of deposits held at NVB if concerns regarding bank failures persist, which could affect the level and composition of the Bank’s deposit portfolio and thereby directly impact the Bank’s funding costs and net interest margin. NVB’s funding costs may also be adversely affected in the event that activities of the Federal Reserve Board and the U.S. Department of the Treasury to provide liquidity for the banking system and improvement in capital markets are curtailed or are unsuccessful. Such events could reduce liquidity in the markets, thereby increasing funding costs to the Bank or reducing the availability of funds to the Bank to finance its existing operations and thereby adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, future prospects, profitability and stock price. 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS No comments have been submitted to the registrant by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 