Item 1A Risk Factors. The following risk factors, as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered by investors in connection with any investment in the Company’s common stock. As used in this Item, the terms “we,” “us” and “our” refer to the Company and its subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Significant Customers We are significantly dependent on our contractual relationship with FedEx Corporation, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, 48% of our consolidated operating revenues, and 100% of the operating revenues for our overnight air cargo segment, arose from services we provided to FedEx. Our agreements with FedEx are renewable on two to five-year terms and may be terminated by FedEx at any time upon 30 days’ notice. FedEx has been a customer of the Company since 1980. The loss of these contracts with FedEx would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Our current contracts extend through October 31, 2013. In the prior year, we had reported that we were in the process of negotiating replacement agreements with FedEx but FedEx has since put the contract negotiations on hold. We do still expect the replacement agreements to be negotiated and put into effect at some point in the future. The terms of the replacement agreements may differ from the terms of our current agreements, which may affect our results of operations going forward. Because of our dependence on FedEx, we are subject to the risks that may affect FedEx’s operations. Because of our dependence on FedEx, we are subject to the risks that may affect FedEx’s operations. These risks are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Risk Factors” in FedEx Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended February 28, 2013. These risks include but are not limited to the following: · Economic conditions in the global markets in which it operates; · Dependence on its strong reputation and value of its brand; · Potential disruption to the Internet and FedEx’s technology infrastructure, including its website; · The price and availability of fuel; · Its ability to manage its assets, including aircraft, to match shifting and future shipping volumes; · Intense competition from other providers of transportation services; · Its ability to maintain good relationships with its employees and prevent attempts by labor organizations to organize groups of its employees; · The impact of any international conflicts or terrorist activities on the United States and global economies in general, the transportation industry or it in particular, and what effects these events will have on the cost and demand for its services; · Increased pilot safety requirements; · Regulatory actions affecting global aviation rights or a failure to obtain or maintain aviation rights in important international markets; · Global climate change or legal, regulatory or market responses to such change; · Localized natural or man-made disasters in key locations, including its Memphis, Tennessee super-hub; · Disruptions or modifications in service by the Unites States Postal Service, a significant customer and vendor of FedEx; and · Widespread outbreak of an illness or other communicable disease or any other public health crisis. 7 A material reduction in the aircraft we fly for FedEx could materially adversely affect on our business and results of operations. Under our agreements with FedEx, we are not guaranteed a number of aircraft or routes we are to fly. Our compensation under these agreements, including our administrative fees, depends on the number of aircraft leased to us by FedEx. Any material permanent reduction in the aircraft we operate could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. A temporary reduction could materially adversely affect our results of operations for that period. Our agreements with the United States Air Force are for one year with limited additional one-year extension options. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 15% and 8%, respectively, of our consolidated operating revenues arose from sales of deicing and other equipment to the USAF under two long-term contracts. GGS currently supplies deicing equipment to the USAF under a contract awarded in 2009. The contract award was for one year with four additional one-year extension options that may be exercised by the USAF. In June 2012, the third option period under the contract was exercised, extending the contract to July 2013. During the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, GGS received orders for $5.3 million and $3.9 million, respectively, under this new contract. In September 2010, GGS was awarded a contract to supply flight-line tow tractors to the USAF. The contract award is for one year commencing September 28, 2010 with four additional one-year extension options that may be exercised by the USAF. In August 2012, the second option period under the contract was exercised, extending the contract to September 2013. During the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, GGS received orders for $3.4 million and $5.1 million, respectively, under this contract. In the event that the United States Air Force does not award the remaining extension options under these contracts or does not renew these contracts, our revenues from sales of ground support equipment are likely to decrease unless we are successful in obtaining customer orders from other sources that can replace the equipment sold to the USAF. In addition, sales of deicing and other equipment to the USAF have, in the past, enabled GGS to ameliorate the seasonality of our ground support equipment business. Thus, if the extension options with the USAF are not renewed or if ordering levels under the contracts are low, seasonal patterns for this business may develop, with revenues and operating income for the segment being lower in the first and fourth fiscal quarters. Trends toward reduction in military spending may adversely affect the volume of orders under our USAF contracts. Our contract awards with the USAF do not obligate the USAF to purchase any set or minimum number of deicing units or flight-line tow tractors. The value of these contracts, as well as the number of units to be delivered, depends on the annual requirements and available funding of the USAF. Trends toward reduced military spending, including cuts to military budgets under the Budget Control Act of 2011 (commonly referred to as sequestration), may adversely affect the volume of orders under those contracts. 8 The revenues of each of the other segments of our business have been dependent on significant customers of that segment, the loss of which could materially impact the segment’s results. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, approximately 55% of GAS’s revenue was derived from services under multiple contracts with two customers and approximately 38% of GGS’s revenue arose from sales to the United States Air Force. The loss of any of these customers, or a major decline in business activity with these customers, could materially adversely impact the results of the relevant business segment. Other Business Risks Our revenues for aircraft maintenance services fluctuate based on the heavy maintenance check schedule, which is based on aircraft usage, for aircraft flown by our overnight air cargo operations. Our maintenance revenues are affected based on the level of heavy maintenance checks performed on aircraft operated by our overnight air cargo operations which is affected by the level of usage of the aircraft. Accordingly, our maintenance revenues fluctuate from period to period. In addition, if the number of aircraft operated for FedEx were to decrease, we would likely experience fewer maintenance hours and consequently, less maintenance revenue. Incidents or accidents involving products and services that we sell may result in liability or otherwise adversely affect our operating results for a period. Incidents or accidents may occur involving the products and services that we sell. While we maintain products liability and other insurance in amounts we believe are customary and appropriate, and may have rights to pursue subcontractors in the event that we have any liability in connection with accidents involving products that we sell, it is possible that in the event of multiple accidents the amount of our insurance coverage would not be adequate. The suspension or revocation of FAA certifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our overnight air cargo operations are subject to regulations of the FAA. The FAA can suspend or revoke the authority of air carriers or their licensed personnel for failure to comply with its regulations and can ground aircraft if questions arise concerning airworthiness. The FAA also has power to suspend or revoke for cause the certificates it issues and to institute proceedings for imposition and collection of fines for violation of federal aviation regulations. Our overnight air cargo subsidiaries, MAC and CSA, operate under separate FAA certifications. Although it is possible that, in the event that the certification of one of our subsidiaries was suspended or revoked, flights operated by that subsidiary could be transferred to the other subsidiary, we can offer no assurance that we would be able to transfer flight operations in that manner. Accordingly, the suspension or revocation of any one of these certifications could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial position. The suspension or revocation of all of these certifications would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Sales of deicing equipment can be affected by weather conditions. Our deicing equipment is used to deice commercial and military aircraft. The extent of deicing activity depends on the severity of winter weather. Mild winter weather conditions permit airports to use fewer deicing units, since less time is required to deice aircraft in mild weather conditions. As a result, airports may be able to extend the useful lives of their existing units, reducing the demand for new units. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Various provisions and laws could delay or prevent a change of control. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and provisions of Delaware corporation law could delay or prevent a change of control or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, among other things regulate how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholders’ meetings and authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without shareholder approval. Our stockholder rights plan also makes an acquisition of a controlling interest in Air T in a transaction not approved by our board of directors more difficult. 9 Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 