Item 1A Risk Factors. The following risk factors, as well as other information included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered by investors in connection with any investment in the Company’s common stock. As used in this Item, the terms “we,” “us” and “our” refer to the Company and its subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Significant Customers We are significantly dependent on our contractual relationship with FedEx Corporation, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, 48% of our consolidated operating revenues, and 100% of the operating revenues for our overnight air cargo segment, arose from services we provided to FedEx. Our agreements with FedEx are renewable on two to five-year terms and may be terminated by FedEx at any time upon 30 days’ notice. FedEx has been a customer of the Company since 1980. The loss of these contracts with FedEx would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Because of our dependence on FedEx, we are subject to the risks that may affect FedEx’s operations. Because of or dependence on FedEx, we are subject to the risks that may affect FedEx’s operations. These risks are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Risk Factors” in FedEx Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2009. These risks include: · Economic conditions in the global markets in which it operates; · Dependence on its strong reputation and value of its brand; · Potential changes in labor laws that could make it easier for labor organizations to organize groups of their employees; · Heavy reliance upon technology, including the internet; · The price and availability of fuel; · Intense competition from other providers of transportation services, especially during the current global recession; · The impact of any international conflicts or terrorist activities on the United States and global economies in general, the transportation industry in particular, and what effects these events will have on the cost and demand for its services; · Any impacts on its business resulting from new domestic or international government laws and regulation, including regulatory actions affecting aviation rights, security requirements, tax, accounting, environmental or labor rules; · Widespread outbreak of an illness or other communicable disease or any other public health crisis; and · Adverse weather conditions or natural disasters. A material reduction in the aircraft we fly for FedEx could materially adversely affect on our business and results of operations. Under our agreements with FedEx, we are not guaranteed a number of aircraft or routes we are to fly. In the past year, the number of aircraft we operate for FedEx has decreased from 82 to 80 aircraft, due to a variety of factors beyond our Company’s control. Our compensation under these agreements, including our administrative fees, depends on the number of aircraft leased to us by FedEx. Any material permanent reduction in the aircraft we operate could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. A temporary reduction could materially adversely affect our results of operations for that period. 7 Our agreement with the United States Air Force is for one year with four additional one-year extension options. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 21% and 23%, respectively, of our consolidated operating revenues arose from sales of deicing equipment to the United States Air Force under a long-term contract. This initial four-year contract, awarded in 1999, was extended for two additional three-year periods, and expired in June 2009. On July 15, 2009, the Company announced that GGS had been awarded a new contract to supply deicing trucks to the United States Air Force. The contract award was for one year with four additional one-year extension options that may be exercised by the United States Air Force. During the year ended March 31, 2010, GGS received no orders under this new contract. However, in May and June 2010, GGS received orders for $4.6 million under this new contract. In the event that the United States Air Force does not award the additional extension options or does not increase purchasing activity under this contract, our revenues from sales of ground support equipment are likely to decrease unless we are successful in obtaining customer orders from other sources that can replace the equipment sold to the Air Force. In addition, sales of deicing equipment to the Air Force have enabled GGS to ameliorate the seasonality of our ground support equipment business. Thus, if the extension options with the Air Force are not renewed and ordering levels do not increase; seasonal patterns for this business may re-emerge. Our Ground Support Equipment and Airport Facility Maintenance Services Segment is highly dependent on its contract with one major customer. A significant portion of GAS’s revenue, 64% in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, was derived from services under a contract with Delta Airlines. The contract was originally signed with Northwest Airlines and expires in December 2010. Northwest Airlines subsequently merged with Delta Airlines and GAS continues to operate under the contract. We have recently submitted a bid to Delta to continue providing services at the majority of our existing locations as well as additional locations. We are unable to determine at this time, what the results will be from this competitive bid process. If we are unsuccessful in the bid process with Delta Airlines or are awarded a reduced number of locations serviced, it could materially adversely impact this business segment. Other Business Risks Our revenues for aircraft maintenance services fluctuate based on the heavy maintenance check schedule, which is based on aircraft usage, for aircraft flown by our overnight air cargo operations. Our maintenance revenues fluctuate based on the level of heavy maintenance checks performed on aircraft operated by our air cargo operations. If the number of aircraft operated for FedEx continues to decrease, we would likely experience fewer maintenance hours and consequently, less maintenance revenue. Incidents or accidents involving products and services that we sell may result in liability or otherwise adversely affect our operating results for a period. Incidents or accidents may occur involving the products and services that we sell. While we maintain products liability and other insurance in amounts we believe are customary and appropriate, and may have rights to pursue subcontractors in the event that we have any liability in connection with accidents involving products that we sell, it is possible that in the event of multiple accidents the amount of our insurance coverage would not be adequate. The suspension or revocation of FAA certifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our air cargo operations are subject to regulations of the FAA. The FAA can suspend or revoke the authority of air carriers or their licensed personnel for failure to comply with its regulations and can ground aircraft if questions arise concerning airworthiness. The FAA also has power to suspend or revoke for cause the certificates it issues and to institute proceedings for imposition and collection of fines for violation of federal aviation regulations. Our air cargo subsidiaries, MAC and CSA, operate under separate FAA certifications. Although it is possible that, in the event that the certification of one of our subsidiaries was suspended or revoked, flights operated by that subsidiary could be transferred to the other subsidiary, we can offer no assurance that we would be able to transfe r flight operations in that manner. Accordingly, the suspension or revocation of any one of these certifications could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial position. The suspension or revocation of all of these certifications would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 8 Sales of deicing equipment can be affected by weather conditions. Our deicing equipment is used to deice commercial and military aircraft. The extent of deicing activity depends on the severity of winter weather. Mild winter weather conditions permit airports to use fewer deicing units, since less time is required to deice aircraft in mild weather conditions. Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 