Item 1A Risk Factors. The following risk factors, as well as other information included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered by investors in connection with any investment in the Company’s common stock. As used in this Item, the terms “we,” “us” and “our” refer to the Company and its subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Significant Customers We are significantly dependent on our contractual relationship with FedEx Corporation, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, 54% of our consolidated operating revenues, and 100% of the operating revenues for our overnight air cargo segment, arose from services we provided to FedEx. Our agreements with FedEx are renewable on two to five year terms and may be terminated by FedEx at any time upon 30 days notice. FedEx has been a customer of the Company since 1980. The loss of these contracts with FedEx would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Because of our dependence on FedEx, we are subject to the risks that may affect FedEx’s operations. These risks are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Risk Factors” in FedEx Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2006. These risks include: 5 · Economic conditions in the global markets in which it operates; · Any impacts on its business resulting from new domestic or international government regulation, including regulatory actions affecting aviation rights, security requirements, tax, accounting, environmental or labor rules; · The price and availability of jet and diesel fuel; · The impact of any international conflicts or terrorist activities on the United States and global economies in general, the transportation industry in particular, and what effects these events will have on the cost and demand for its services; · Dependence on its strong reputation and value of its brand; · Reliance upon technology, including the internet; · Competition from other providers of transportation services, including its ability to compete with new or improved services offered by its competitors; · The impact of technology developments on its operations and on demand for its services; and · Adverse weather conditions or natural disasters. A material reduction in the aircraft we fly for FedEx could materially adversely affect on our business and results of operations. Under our agreements with FedEx, we are not guaranteed a number of aircraft or routes we are to fly. Our compensation under these agreements, including our administrative fees, depends on the number of aircraft operated on routes assigned to us by FedEx. For example, in connection with delays in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 in the conversion of a portion of the fleet we operate for FedEx from Fokker F-27 aircraft to ATR-42 and ATR-72 aircraft, the number of aircraft we operated was reduced as certain Fokker F-27 aircraft were removed from service in advance of scheduled heavy maintenance checks while replacement ATR-42 and ATR-72 aircraft were not yet available to be placed in service due to delays in their conversion from passenger to cargo configuration. Although such a reduction in aircraft was temporary in that instance, any material permanent reduction in the aircraft we operate could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. A temporary reduction could materially adversely affect our results of operations for that period. If our agreement with the United States Air Force expires in June 2009 as scheduled, and is not extended or renewed, we may be unable to replace revenues from sales of ground equipment to the United States Air Force and seasonal patterns of this segment of our business may re-emerge. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 24%, 18% and 24%, respectively, of our operating revenues arose from sales of de-icing equipment to the United States Air Force under a long-term contract. This initial four-year contract, awarded in 1999, was extended for two additional three-year periods, and is scheduled to expire in June 2009. We cannot provide any assurance that this agreement will be extended beyond its current 2009 expiration date. In the event that this agreement is not extended, our revenues from sales of ground support equipment may decrease unless we are successful in obtaining customer orders from other sources and we cannot assure you that we will be able to secure orders in that quantity or for the fully-equipped models of equipment sold to the Air Force. In addition, sales of de-icing equipment to the Air Force, has enabled us to ameliorate the seasonality of our ground equipment business. Thus if the contract with the Air Force is not extended, seasonal patterns for this business may re-emerge. Other Business Risks Our revenues for aircraft maintenance services fluctuate based on the heavy maintenance check schedule, which is based on aircraft usage, for aircraft flown by our overnight air cargo operations. The schedule for heavy maintenance checks resulted in reduced maintenance revenues in fiscal 2007 and this reduced level is likely to continue in fiscal 2008. Our maintenance revenues fluctuate based on the level of heavy maintenance checks performed on aircraft operated by our air cargo operations. As a result of the delay in the introduction of ATR aircraft to replace 16 older Fokker F-27 aircraft operated by MAC, most of the ATR aircraft operated by MAC were placed in service during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006. Maintenance revenues associated with the conversion of these aircraft from passenger operations to cargo operations resulted in increased maintenance revenues during that period. Because most of these aircraft were placed in service during a relatively short time span, they are on roughly the same maintenance schedule, and the next heavy maintenance checks due on these aircraft would not be anticipated to start until the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009. Unless there is an acceleration of the heavy maintenance checks schedule, which is based on aircraft usage, or we are able to attract additional maintenance projects, our maintenance revenues in fiscal 2008 are likely to be lower than in fiscal 2005 and 2006. 6 Incidents or accidents involving products that we sell may result in liability or otherwise adversely affect our operating results for a period. Incidents or accidents may occur involving the products that we sell. For example, in February 2005, a 135-foot fixed-stand deicing boom sold by Global for installation at the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania airport collapsed on an Airbus A330 aircraft operated by US Airways. While the aircraft suffered some structural damage, no passengers or crew on the aircraft were injured. The operator of the deicing boom has claimed to suffer injuries in connection with the collapse. U.S. Airways, the city of Philadelphia and the boom operator have each initiated litigation. While we maintain products liability and other insurance in amounts we believe are customary and appropriate, and may have rights to pursue subcontractors in the event that we have any liability in connection with accidents involving products that we sell, it is possible that in the event of multiple accidents the amount of our insurance coverage would not be adequate. In addition, in late June 2005, after an independent structural engineering firm’s investigation identified specific design flaws and structural defects in the remaining 11 booms sold by Global and installed at the Philadelphia Airport, and after Global’s subcontractor declined to participate in efforts to return the remaining 11 booms to service, Global agreed with the City of Philadelphia to effect specific repairs to the remaining 11 booms. Global incurred approximately $905,000 in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 in connection with its commercial undertaking with the City of Philadelphia to return these booms to service. While we have commenced litigation against our subcontractor to recover these amounts, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in recovering these amounts in a timely manner or at all. The suspension or revocation of FAA certifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our air cargo operations are subject to regulations of the FAA. The FAA can suspend or revoke the authority of air carriers or their licensed personnel for failure to comply with its regulations and can ground aircraft if questions arise concerning airworthiness. The FAA also has power to suspend or revoke for cause the certificates it issues and to institute proceedings for imposition and collection of fines for violation of federal aviation regulations. Our air cargo subsidiaries, MAC and CSA, operate under separate FAA certifications. Although it is possible that, in the event that the certification of one of our subsidiaries was suspended or revoked, flights operated by that subsidiary could be transferred to the other subsidiary, we can offer no assurance that we would be able to transfer flight operations in that manner. Accordingly, the suspension or revocation of any one of these certifications could have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial position. The suspension or revocation of all of these certifications would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Sales of de-icing equipment can be affected by weather conditions. Our de-icing equipment is used to de-ice commercial and military aircraft. The extent of de-icing activity depends on the severity of winter weather. Mild winter weather conditions permit airports to use fewer de-icing units, since less time is required to de-ice aircraft in mild weather conditions. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 7 Item 