RISK FACTORS Forward-looking Statements The information set forth in this annual report on Form 20-F contains forward-looking statements as the term is defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This in particular relates to information included under the headings ‘Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements’ and ‘Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations’ under Item 5 and in the Company’s Annual Report 2007, including under the headings ‘Risk Management’, ‘Management report and discussion 2007’ and note 31 ‘Financial Risk’ with reference to plans, forecasts, expectations, strategies, projections and assessment of risks. Words such as ‘believe’, ‘expect’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘plan’, ‘strategy’, ‘prospect’, ‘foresee’, ‘estimate’, ‘project’, ‘anticipate’, ‘can’, ‘intend’ and similar words identify forward-looking statements. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: 2 The average exchange rate is calculated by using the exchange rate on the last day of each month according to Danmarks Nationalbank’s daily official exchange rates. 4 Back to Contents • statements of plans, objectives or goals for future operations including those related to Novo Nordisk’s products, product research, product introductions and product approvals as well as co-operations in relation thereto • statements containing projections of revenues, income (or loss), earnings per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other net financials • statements of future economic performance • statements of the assumptions underlying or relating to such statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. Moreover, such statements are not guarantees of future results. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, and risks exist that the predictions, forecasts, projections and other forward-looking statements will not be achieved. Novo Nordisk cautions that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements. Factors that may affect future results include, but are not limited to, interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, delay or failure of development projects, interruptions of supplies and production, product recall, pressure on insulin prices, unexpected contract breaches or terminations, government-mandated or market driven price decreases for Novo Nordisk’s products, introduction of competing products, Novo Nordisk’s ability to successfully market current and new products, exposure to product liability and legal proceedings and investigations, changes in reimbursement rules and governmental laws and related interpretation thereof, perceived or actual failure to adhere to ethical marketing practices, developments in international activities, which also involve certain political risks, investments in and divestitures of domestic and foreign companies and unexpected growth in costs and expenses. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made and, unless required by law, Novo Nordisk is under no duty and undertakes no obligation to update or revise any of them , after the distribution of this annual report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 