Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements. Also, our management may make forward-looking statements orally to investors, analysts, the media and others. Forward-looking statements express our expectations or predictions of future events or results. They are not guarantees and are subject to many risks and uncertainties. There are a number of factors — many beyond our control — that could cause actual events or results to be significantly different from those described in the forward-looking statement. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this report or in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. We caution that these statements are further qualified by important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the following: • our failure to achieve significant revenues; • our failure to service our debt and preferred stock; • our ability to procure additional funding; • regulation by federal, state and foreign regulatory authorities in the manufacturing and selling of our Multiferon® product; • our failure to develop and commercialize our avian transgenics platform and antibody product candidates; • our reliance on third parties to market and distribute our Multiferon® product; • the effect of competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry; • our reliance on foreign third party manufacturers; • the availability of human leukocytes and other materials used in the production of our products; • an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates; • our ability to protect our intellectual property; • our exposure to litigation; • our dependence on our key managers and scientific personnel and our scientific collaborators; • a decline in demand for shares of our common stock; • volatility in the market for shares of our common stock; • ability of holders to effect resales of securities if we are delisted from AMEX; • our ability to regain compliance with American Stock Exchange listing standards; • our ability to redeem and/or pay dividends on preferred stock under Delaware law; • the effect of economic conditions generally; and • regulation by federal, state and foreign regulatory authorities in connection with developing, marketing, manufacturing and selling our product candidates. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe” or words of similar meaning. They may also use words such as, “would,” “should,” “could” or “may”. Factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially include the risks described herein. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not known to us or that we do not consider to be material at this time. If the events described in these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Business We have a history of operating losses and we expect to continue to incur losses and may never be profitable. If we do not develop profitable operations, we will have to terminate our operations. As a result, investors will lose their entire investment. Since our organization, we have incurred operating losses and negative cash flow from operating activities as a result of minimal sales coupled with our significant clinical development, research and development, general and administrative, sales and marketing and business development expenses. We expect to incur losses for at least the next several years as we expand our sales and marketing capabilities, make use of the sales and marketing capabilities of third parties and continue our clinical trials and research and development activities. Losses have totaled approximately: • $18.2 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006; • $26.2 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005; and • $18.2 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. At June 30, 2006, we had cash on-hand of approximately $443,000, working capital of approximately $229,000, an accumulated deficit since organization of approximately $166.2 million and a stockholders’ deficit of approximately $1.6 million. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ (deficit) equity. In light of our recurring losses, accumulated deficit and cash flow difficulties, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 contains an explanatory paragraph raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may be necessary in the event we are unable to continue as a going concern. While, subsequent to June 30, 2006, our majority-owned subsidiary, Viragen International, received net proceeds of approximately $1.9 million from the sale of its preferred stock and common stock, we continue to experience operating losses and cash flow difficulties. We believe that this additional funding will provide sufficient cash to support our operations through at least September 2006. However, we will require substantial additional funding to support our operations subsequent to September 2006. Our inability to generate substantial revenue or obtain additional capital through equity or debt financings would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to continue operations. Accordingly, if we are unable to obtain additional financing by the end of September 2006, we could be forced to significantly curtail or suspend our operations, including laying-off employees, recording asset impairment write-downs and other measures. We must generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. While Multiferon® is in its early stage of commercialization deriving nominal revenue, most of our products and technologies are either in the research stage or in pre-clinical stages of development and will require substantial additional funding to reach the commercialization stage. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues or achieve or maintain profitability. Our failure to achieve and maintain profitability would depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings and continue operations. Additionally, investors could lose their entire investment in our securities. Our business is capital intensive, and we do not currently generate sufficient revenues to offset our debt service obligations, research and development activities and other operating expenses. If we are unable to obtain additional funding, as and when required, we may have to significantly curtail or completely terminate our operations. We will require substantial future capital in order to continue to complete research, development and commercialization of our products and technologies, to meet our debt service obligations, to fund other operating expenses and to otherwise execute our business plan. If we are unable to obtain additional financing or generate licensing and sales revenue sufficient to sustain our operations, as needed, we could be forced to significantly curtail or 20 Table of Contents suspend our operations, including laying-off employees, recording asset impairment write-downs and other measures. Additional capital may not be available to us when needed, or on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. For instance, our common stock price may not permit us to conduct future financings. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of our convertible debt issued in June 2004 and September 2005, we are not permitted to incur additional indebtedness except in limited circumstances. Our ability to raise additional funds through the issuance of additional debt will be limited absent a waiver from debt holders. There can be no assurance that debt holders will provide waivers, if required. We anticipate research and development costs to increase over the next twelve months, particularly in the area of regulatory-related consulting fees, toxicology studies and clinical trial costs. We also anticipate selling related expenses will increase over the next twelve months due to the planned expansion of our Multiferon® sales and related marketing efforts. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including: • revenue generated from licensing Multiferon®, our antibody product candidates or our avian transgenics technology; • revenue generated from the sale of Multiferon®; • our ability to conduct future financings; • our ability to service our convertible debt and convertible preferred stock; • progress with future research, development, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; • the costs associated with obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in patent applications and potential patent enforcement; • competing technologies and market developments; and • our ability to establish collaborative arrangements and effective commercialization activities. Based on our operating plans, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007, we anticipate that we will need approximately $9.0 million for operating activities, $500,000 for investing activities and $10.2 million to redeem our outstanding Series J cumulative convertible preferred stock, Viragen International’s outstanding Series C and Series D cumulative preferred stock and service our current debt obligations. Actual expenditures in these areas could vary based on the net proceeds realized from our proposed secondary offering. We have received deficiency notices from the American Stock Exchange, or AMEX, and if we are unable to satisfy the AMEX that we will regain compliance with its continued listing criteria, our common stock and any other security approved for listing on AMEX may be delisted from AMEX, which could accelerate repayment of outstanding indebtedness, adversely affecting investor perception and may result in institutional and other investors refraining from purchasing our common stock, which would adversely affect our ability to raise capital. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail or suspend a portion or all of our operations. Further, sufficient funding may not be available to finance planned future scientific collaborations, planned marketing efforts or planned capital expenditures. Any failure to raise additional funds in the future may also result in our inability to successfully promote Multiferon®, complete existing and/or undertake new research and development projects, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to continue operations. We will be substantially dependent on licensing fees and sales of our human alpha interferon product, Multiferon®, to generate revenue for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to obtain or maintain the necessary required regulatory approvals to manufacture and sell Multiferon® throughout the European Union, or if Multiferon® is not widely accepted by the markets in which we manufacture and sell it, we may have to significantly curtail or cease operations and our investors may lose their entire investment. Our prospects for achieving profitability will depend primarily on how successful we are in executing our business plan to license, market and sell our human alpha interferon product under the brand Multiferon®. We expect sales of Multiferon® to be a significant source of income for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you of the success of our commercialization efforts. The product is approved in Sweden for the first-line adjuvant treatment of high-risk (Stages IIb-III) malignant melanoma following dacarbazine (DTIC) after surgical removal of tumors. 21 Table of Contents The product is also approved for sale in Bulgaria, Chile, Mexico, the Philippines and Sweden as a second-line treatment of any and all diseases in which patients show an initial response to recombinant alpha interferon followed by treatment failure, likely to be caused by neutralizing antibodies. The product is also approved for sale in Egypt, Hong Kong, Indonesia and South Africa as a second-line therapy for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia and hairy cell leukemia. Multiferon® is not approved for sale in the United States or European Union countries, other than Sweden. We have not sought the approval of Multiferon® from the United States Food and Drug Administration or its European Union counterparts, except Sweden. We will focus on seeking new approvals for Multiferon® in the European Union for the same indications for which it is approved in Sweden. We may seek approval for other indications in the European Union in the future. In the foreseeable future, we do not expect to seek regulatory approval in the United States unless we secure licensees to fund such activities or other sources of funding, including government or private grant funding. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval of Multiferon® for the indications for which Multiferon® is approved in Sweden or for other indications in the European Union or in the United States. Our ability to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitable operations depends in part upon our ability to establish and maintain manufacturing and distribution agreements with third parties. We will not be able to significantly reduce our losses or operate profitably until we obtain the necessary approvals to manufacture and sell Multiferon® on a widely accepted basis throughout the European Union. The successful commercialization of Multiferon® will require additional marketing and promotional activities and the completion of planned clinical trials, which are dependent upon our ability to raise significant additional funding, or our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities. Investors must understand that Multiferon® may never receive new approvals sought from regulatory authorities, or be able to maintain current approvals over time. In addition, even if new approvals are received, we may not be able to achieve sufficient profit from the sale of Multiferon®, unless we successfully meet our long-term sales objectives. If we do not obtain the required approvals, or we do not achieve profitable operations from the sale of Multiferon®, we may be forced to significantly curtail or cease operations. In the event we cease operations, our investors will lose their entire investment. We may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our antibody product candidates, which are in early stage development where there is a significant risk of failure. Our future growth will depend on our ability, or our licensees’ ability, to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our product candidates, including VG101 and VG102. We will have to conduct significant additional tests with respect to these product candidates, including pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, and obtain regulatory approval before commercialization may commence. We must demonstrate to the applicable regulatory authorities that each product candidate is safe and effective for their intended use. Product development is time consuming, expensive and an uncertain process. Pre-clinical studies consist of laboratory testing using chemical and animal models, and must be completed in order to submit an investigational new drug application for authorization to conduct human studies. There can be no assurance that a submission of an investigational new drug application will result in authorization to start clinical trials. Clinical testing consists of assessment of product safety and efficacy of the product candidate in humans under rigidly controlled conditions. We are currently conducting pre-clinical research studies on VG101 and VG102. We expect to conduct additional studies in the future. It may take several years to complete the various stages of testing for each product candidate, and failure can occur at any stage. Many factors may delay our commencement and completion of clinical trials, including: • the number of patients that participate in the trial; • the length of time required to enroll suitable subjects; • the duration of patient follow-up; • the number of clinical sites included in the trial; 22 Table of Contents • changes in regulatory requirements or regulatory delays or clinical holds requiring suspension or termination of the trials; • delays, suspensions or termination of clinical trials due to the institutional review board overseeing the study at a particular site; • unforeseen safety issues; and • inability to manufacture, through third party manufacturers, adequate supplies of the product candidate being tested. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results from earlier studies. At any point during clinical trials, undesirable side effects could be detected. These side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of the product candidates being tested and related product candidates and could result in regulatory authorities denying approval of such product candidates for any or all targeted uses. Also, we rely on third party consultants to conduct studies of the effects of our product candidates on animals and humans. Our reliance on these third parties may result in delays in completing, or in failure to complete, these trials if the third parties fail to perform under our agreements with them. Based on results at any stage of product development, we may decide to repeat or redesign pre-clinical studies or clinical trials, conduct entirely new studies or discontinue development of one or more of our product candidates. In addition, our product candidates may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in pending or any future pre-clinical testing or clinical trials to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals and even if such approvals are obtained for a product candidate, it may not be accepted in the market as a viable alternative to other products already approved or pending approvals. Additionally, the conduct of clinical trials is expensive and competition in the bio-pharmaceutical industry is intense. We have a very limited source of revenue at this time, and we will require significant additional funding to conduct the clinical trials that will be necessary in order to receive regulatory approvals. We must obtain additional funding from outside sources to conduct these trials. If we are unable to locate funding or obtain funding on reasonable terms, we may be forced to cease operations. In that case, our investors will lose their entire investment. If we are unable to produce safe, efficacious, proteins in egg whites of transgenic chickens in commercially viable quantities and required quality, we may be unable to recoup our research and development expenses and we may be unable to successfully market the OVA™ System used to manufacture these drugs. Our avian transgenics project, still in the research stage, is designed to enable us to produce therapeutic proteins and antibodies inside the egg whites of transgenic hens. To date, neither we nor any competitor has commercialized any therapeutic proteins or antibody therapeutic products based on avian transgenics technologies. Even if we are successful in producing the targeted commercial proteins in egg whites, we are unable to predict whether this technology will yield commercially viable quantities of products that are safe and efficacious for patients or that regulators may approve for human use. Our inability to produce commercially viable quantities of high quality protein-based drugs may require us to discontinue our avian transgenics activities. Success in early pre-clinical studies may not be indicative of results obtained in later trials and studies and our product candidates may not commercialize and we may not recover our investment. Results of our early pre-clinical studies and those of our partners using our humanized antibody products, including our VG101 and VG102 projects, are based on a limited number of studies and may, upon review, be revised or negated by further analysis or by later stage study results, which may prevent them from ever reaching human clinical evaluations. Historically, the results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials have often not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs and biologics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. 23 Table of Contents We rely, and expect to rely in the foreseeable future, on third parties in various international territories to effectively market and distribute Multiferon® and our other product candidates after receipt of regulatory approval. If these third parties are unable to effectively market Multiferon®, we may be unable to achieve significant product sales. One of our business strategies is to license our technologies and products to third parties for marketing and distribution. For instance, we have entered into agreements with third parties in Mexico, Greece, Chile and South Africa for the distribution of Multiferon®. These third parties are not our employees and we do not have control over their performance. To date, we have not recognized significant revenue from these agreements, as some of these markets are relatively small and highly competitive. The majority of these agreements require that the distributor obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, which, in some cases, have not yet been obtained. Regulatory approval is a mandatory step in the marketing of a drug, but it is by no means the final challenge in marketing a bio-pharmaceutical product. In many countries, a separate process may be required for obtaining reimbursement authorization. In addition, physicians must be educated about the merits of the product over time and, in some of these territories, government and/or hospital formularies govern the acceptance for use of a new product. Therefore, we are unable to predict the timing of approvals or sales in these various countries and we have previously terminated such third party agreements due to non-performance. The failure of these third parties to sell our product or reach targeted sale amounts would negatively impact our sales growth. To the extent that we transfer technology to third parties on an exclusive basis, we will be precluded from granting other parties the opportunity to conduct successful marketing activities. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell product candidates, we may be unable to generate significant product revenue to support our continuing operations. We have no commercial products, other than Multiferon®, and we do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of these products. We do have two sales representatives in Sweden to promote Multiferon® to prescribing physicians. In order to successfully commercialize these products that may be approved in the future by applicable regulatory authorities, we must either build our sales and marketing capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we do enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales and marketing services, our net product revenues will be lower than if we directly sold and marketed our products and any revenues received under such arrangements will depend on the skills and efforts of others. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate significant product revenue to support our continuing operations. Possible side effects from the use of Multiferon® could adversely affect potential revenues and physician/patient acceptability of our product. Like any medication Multiferon® can have side effects. The most common side effects are: fever, chills, sweats, fatigue, stiffness, joint and muscle pain, headache, loss of appetite and nausea. These acute side effects can usually be relieved by taking acetaminophen and often decrease during the course of treatment. There can be no assurance that unexpected or unacceptable side effects will not be found in the future for this use or other potential uses of Multiferon® which could threaten or limit such product’s usefulness. Our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenue. Market acceptance of our products will depend on the benefits of our products in terms of safety, efficacy, convenience, ease of administration and cost effectiveness and our ability to demonstrate these benefits to physicians, payers and patients. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our products will not have unexpected or unacceptable side effects that limit the usefulness of the products. We believe that market acceptance also depends on the pricing of our products and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers, as well as the effectiveness of our sales and marketing activities. Physicians may not prescribe our products, and patients may determine, for any reason, that our products are not useful to them. The failure of any of our products, once approved, to achieve market acceptance would limit our ability to generate revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Some of the indications we are targeting represent smaller patient populations with currently unmet medical needs, which may not result in significant revenue. As we identify new indications for our approved product and initial indications for our product candidates, we tend to focus on urgent unmet medical needs. The market potential for these indications may be small and there can be no assurances that any one or multiple approvals for an indication will result in significant revenue. While competition in these indications may be less than for other indications, there can be no assurances that there will not be competition with better products and technologies and more funding to conduct necessary clinical trials than we are able to provide. Our potential products may not be commercially viable if we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for those products by governments, private health coverage insurers and other organizations, our revenues from these products could be less than anticipated, which could have a negative impact on our ability to achieve profitable operations. Sales of pharmaceutical products such as ours largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government health care programs and private health insurers. Without the financial support of the governments or third-party payers, the market opportunity for our products will be limited. These third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products and services. We may need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Such studies may require us to dedicate a significant amount of resources including funding. Our product candidates may not be considered cost-effective. Third-party payers may elect not to reimburse for our products, or enable us or our partners to sell them at profitable price. If third party payers decline or limit reimbursement for our products, our product revenue would be less than anticipated, which would negatively impact our ability to achieve profitable operations. If our competitors develop and market products faster than we do or if those products are more effective, safer or less expensive than our approved products, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or may not exist and we may be forced to suspend operations. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense and is expected to increase. We face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies, both in the United States and abroad. Many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies, have more experience in research, development and clinical testing of bio-pharmaceutical products. We have not yet developed a pharmaceutical product and gained regulatory approvals such that it can be widely marketed in an international competitive environment. Many of our competitors also have greater financial, marketing and human resources capabilities that we do. Some of our competitors in the alpha interferon markets include Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc. and Schering-Plough Corporation, both of whom have received approvals for their recombinant and sustained-release alpha interferon products. These companies have been researching, developing and marketing their products and have received wide acceptance from the medical community, payers and the patient population for their products. This may make it more difficult for us to introduce our alpha interferon product and penetrate the market, in certain indications, if and when we receive the necessary regulatory approvals. We are aware of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in research and development of antibody-based products that have commenced human clinical trials with or have successfully commercialized antibody products. Some of these companies, such as Pfizer Inc., ImClone Systems Incorporated, Johnson & Johnson, Medarex, Inc., Wyeth, Inc., Amgen Inc., Abbott Laboratories, UCB Pharma, Biogen Idec, Inc., Abgenix, Inc., Genentech, Inc., Human Genome Sciences, Inc. and Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. are addressing diseases and disease indications that are being targeted by us and certain of our research partners. Additionally, there are many more antibody-based products in various stages of discovery, research and development. 25 Table of Contents Despite the receipt of regulatory approvals there can be no assurance that our products will be accepted as a treatment superior to our competitors. Several companies are attempting to develop avian transgenic biomanufacturing systems similar to our OVA™ System. Some of these companies include AviGenics, Inc., Origen Biomedical, Inc. and GeneWorks, Inc., however, none have commercialized such technology to date. In addition, technological advances made by our competitors may reduce the market potential for our products. We may not be able to keep pace with technological advances by others, either because we do not have sufficient resources or because we cannot achieve greater improvements in our technology. If we are unable to compete with our larger, more experienced competitors, we will likely cease operations or eliminate products with limited potential returns. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective, safer and less expensive than our products or the ones we have under development or that render our approved or proposed products or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, our competitors may achieve product commercialization before we do. If any of our competitors develop a product that is more effective, safer or more convenient for patients, or is able to obtain regulatory approval for commercialization before we do, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance for our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and recover the substantial development costs we have incurred and will continue to incur. The regulatory approval process for Multiferon® and our product candidates is lengthy, and we may not be able to obtain all of the regulatory approvals required to manufacture and commercialize Multiferon® and our product candidates, which could limit our revenue and, ultimately, could require us to cease operations. All pharmaceutical manufacturers are subject to local, state, federal and foreign rules and regulations, such as those of the United States Food and Drug Administration and the European Union regulatory authorities. In the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions, rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process must be successfully completed before a new drug can be sold. We and our collaboration partners must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory authority that Multiferon® and our product candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. Multiferon® and our product candidates may not be approved for all of the intended uses that we request, which would limit the uses for which we can promote them and adversely impact our ability to generate revenues. If the approvals we obtain are limited, we may choose to conduct costly, post-marketing follow-up studies to expand the product uses, but those studies may not produce data sufficient to permit approval for an expanded product use. We have only received regulatory approval for Multiferon® in Bulgaria, Chile, Mexico, Sweden, Egypt, Hong Kong, Indonesia, the Philippines and South Africa for certain indications. We have not received regulatory approval for Multiferon® in the United States or in the European Union, other than Sweden. We are in preparations for requesting approval of Multiferon® in other countries in the European Union for the same indication for which it was approved in Sweden, however, there are no assurances it will be approved. We have not received regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. For instance, we have initiated the process to conduct a Phase III post-marketing clinical trial with Multiferon® on an international basis, which is expected to cost between $16 million to $18 million and take six to eight years to complete. Additionally, these rules and regulations may be different in each jurisdiction that we seek regulatory approval and can involve additional and costly pre-clinical and clinical testing and data review. Despite the time, expense and resources invested by us in the approval process, we may never receive these regulatory approvals for any specific illness or range of illnesses that we are attempting to treat with our product candidates. The time required to obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory authority is unpredictable and the type and magnitude of the testing required for regulatory approval varies depending on the regulatory authority, the product candidate and the disease or condition for which it is being developed. Regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a product for many reasons, including: 26 Table of Contents • our failure to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the regulatory authority that a product candidate is safe and effective for a particular use; • the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the regulatory authority for approval; • our inability to demonstrate that a product candidate’s benefits outweigh its risks; • our inability to demonstrate that the product candidate presents an advantage over existing therapies; • the regulatory authority’s disagreement with the manner in which we interpret the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; • the regulatory authority’s failure to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and • a change in the approval policies or regulations of the regulatory authority or a change in the laws governing the approval process. Any delay or failure by us or our collaboration partners to obtain regulatory approvals for Multiferon® or our product candidates would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from them and could impose significant additional costs on us. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory approval process in others. Identification of side effects or occurrence of manufacturing problems could cause subsequent withdrawal of approval. Our inability to receive and maintain regulatory approvals will limit our revenues and, ultimately, could require us to cease operations. Our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements even if they receive marketing approval, and if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could lose these approvals, and the sale of any approved commercial products could be suspended, and fines could be imposed on us. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including requirements relating to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, distribution and record keeping. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product, which could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and render the approved product candidate not commercially viable. In addition, as clinical experience with a drug expands after approval because it is typically used by a greater number and more diverse group of patients after approval than during clinical trials, side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials or other studies. Any adverse effects observed after the approval and marketing of a product candidate could result in limitations on the use of or withdrawal of any approved product from the marketplace. Absence of long-term safety data may also limit the approved uses of our products, if any. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the applicable regulatory authority, or previously unknown problems with any approved commercial products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions or other setbacks, including: • restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing process; • warning letters; • civil or criminal penalties; • fines; • injunctions; • product seizure or detention; • import or export bans or restrictions; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and related publicity requirements; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; and • refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or supplements to approved applications. 27 Table of Contents If we or our collaboration partners are slow to adapt, or are unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we or our collaboration partners may lose marketing approval for our products when and if any of them are approved, resulting in decreased revenue. If we and our third-party suppliers do not maintain high standards of manufacturing in accordance with all applicable regulations, our development and commercialization activities could suffer significant interruptions or delays and thus prevent us from realizing revenues and may cause us to significantly curtail or cease operations. We and our third-party suppliers on which we currently or may in the future rely, must continuously adhere to corresponding regulations. In complying with these regulations, we and our third-party suppliers must expend significant time, money and effort in the areas of design and development, testing, production, validation, inspection, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other regulatory requirements. The failure to comply with these regulations could result in an enforcement action against us, including seizure of products and shutting down of production. Any of these third-party suppliers and we also may be subject to audits by the applicable regulatory authorities. If any of our third-party suppliers or we fail to comply with applicable manufacturing regulations, our ability to develop and commercialize our products could suffer significant interruptions and prevent us from realizing revenues and may cause us to significantly curtail or cease operations. Our reliance on foreign third party manufacturers may disrupt operations, which could materially harm our business and financial condition. We depend and will continue to depend upon third parties for the processing of materials to manufacture Multiferon® and our product candidates and for the filling, labeling and packaging of our products. Third party manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, shortage of capacity, compliance with applicable regulations, production costs, and development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Also, third party manufacturers may not perform as agreed to or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required by us to successfully produce and market our products. Any failure of third party manufacturers to deliver the required quantities of Multiferon® and our product candidates for clinical use on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and our failure to find replacement manufacturers could materially harm our business and financial condition. Foreign manufacturing could expose us to risks involved with fluctuations in exchange rates of foreign currencies. In addition, reliance on international vendors exposes us to all the risks of dealing with a foreign manufacturing source. These risks include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers, including import and export restrictions; • political or economic instability; • compliance with foreign laws; • transportation delays and interruptions; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights in foreign countries; and • currency exchange risks. Foreign manufacturing arrangements may also limit our control, and could disrupt our operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact upon your investment in us. The process of manufacturing antibody therapeutic products is complex. Third party manufacturing facilities must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, enforced through facility inspection programs. If we are unable to manufacture product candidates in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practices and applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our products, which could materially harm our business and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Our operations involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health and safety controls and regulations, which can be expensive to comply with and we may be liable for damages. As a bio-pharmaceutical company, we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. The cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations may be substantial. Our business activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If third-party contract research organizations and consultants do not perform in an acceptable and timely manner, our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials could be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the ability to conduct all aspects of our pre-clinical studies or clinical trials ourselves. We rely and will continue to rely on clinical investigators, third-party contract research organizations and consultants to perform some or all of the functions associated with pre-clinical testing or clinical trials. The failure of any of these vendors to perform in an acceptable and timely manner in the future, including in accordance with any applicable regulatory requirements, such as good clinical or laboratory practices, or pre-clinical testing or clinical trial protocols, could cause a delay or otherwise adversely affect our pre-clinical testing or clinical trials and ultimately the timely advancement of our development programs. Additionally, competition for consultants, animal colonies and human patients may be intense and we may experience delays in development projects or suspension of studies if we are unable to fund or gain access to consultants, animals or human patients. We conduct most of our operations in foreign countries and we anticipate marketing our products in foreign countries, which presents numerous challenges. If we are unable to efficiently manage these challenges, our revenue, cost of operations and ability to attain profitable operations could be materially adversely affected. There are challenges associated with international marketing activities including language and cultural barriers, variations in compliance procedures in certain countries and/or changes in regulatory requirements where our products may be marketed, performance of our distribution channels, government’s willingness to promote cheaper generic versions of competing products, the general population’s inability to afford private care drug products, changes in economic conditions and instability from country to country, changes in a country’s political condition, trade protection measures, tariffs and other trade barriers, including import and export restrictions, and tax issues. Our future revenues, costs of operations and profit results could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these factors. It may take significant time to overcome these challenges with no assurance that a particular market will ever be effectively penetrated. Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively impact our revenues and anticipated sales margins. We conduct operations in several different countries. The balance sheet accounts of our operations in Scotland and Sweden, including intercompany accounts that are considered long-term in nature, are translated to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes and resulting adjustments are made to stockholders’ (deficit) equity. The value of the respective local currency may strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, which would impact the value of stockholders’ investment in our common stock. Fluctuations in the value of the British Pound and Swedish Krona against the U.S. dollar have occurred during our history, which have resulted in unrealized foreign currency translation gains and losses, which are included in accumulated other comprehensive income and shown in the stockholders’ (deficit) equity section of our consolidated balance sheet. Intercompany trading accounts, which are short-term in nature, are remeasured at current exchange rates as of the balance sheet dates and any gains or losses are recorded in other expense (income), net. We also conduct transactions that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, British Pound and Swedish Krona. Transactions denominated in other currencies are accounted for in the respective local currency at the time of the transaction. Upon settlement of this type of transaction, any foreign currency gain or loss results in an adjustment to income. 29 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be impacted by the fluctuating exchange rates of foreign currencies, especially the British Pound and Swedish Krona, in relation to the U.S. dollar. Most of the revenue and expense items of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the respective local currencies. The strengthening of these local currencies against the U.S. dollar will result in higher expenses and liabilities when translated into U.S. dollars, which would lower or possibly eliminate completely our revenues and anticipated sales margins on product sales. We do not currently engage in hedging activities with respect to our foreign currency exposure. If we cannot protect our intellectual property, our ability to develop and commercialize our products could be severely limited and may cause us to terminate activities on such products and never realize a return on our investments in such products. Our success is dependent in part on our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights (owned and licensed) domestically and abroad. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual issues and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of these rights, therefore, are highly uncertain. Fundamentally, a patent is a grant of a right to exclude others from making, using or selling an invention. However, our patents may not protect us against our competitors. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability. The scope, validity or enforceability of our patents can be challenged in litigation. Such litigation can involve substantial costs and distraction. If the outcome of such litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented inventions and compete directly with us, without payment to us. Third parties may also be able to circumvent our patents by design innovations. We may not receive any additional patents based on the applications currently pending. Our patents may not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or developing competing products. Competitors may be able to use technologies in competing products that perform substantially the same function as our technologies but avoid infringing our patent claims. Under such “workaround” circumstances, our patents would be of little commercial value to us. Patent applications we file may not result in the issuance of a patent. Because patent applications are typically not published for several months after filing, or in some cases, not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors or collaborators can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, in the United States, the first to invent is entitled to the patent, and outside of the United States, the first to file is entitled to the patent. Intellectual property rights are fundamentally territorial in nature, and depend on the differing laws of separate nations and entities. Accordingly, we may not be able, alone or with our licensors or collaborators, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. The actual protection we receive from a foreign patent may vary from one country to another. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties may not provide commercially meaningful protection from competition. We rely on maintaining as trade secrets our competitively sensitive know-how and other information. Intentional or unintentional disclosure of this information could impair our competitive position. As to many technical aspects of our business, we have concluded that competitively sensitive information is either not patentable or that for competitive reasons it is not commercially advantageous to seek patent protection. In these circumstances, we seek to protect this know-how and other proprietary information by maintaining it in confidence as a trade secret. To maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers and advisors upon commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. We may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and the agreements we have may be breached. We may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. To the extent that our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers or advisors use trade secrets or know-how owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the ownership of relative inventions. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent trade secrets, processes and know-how, and competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. The disclosure of our trade secrets could impair our competitive position. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or our confidential information. 30 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business and incur financial obligations based on our exercise of such license rights. In April 2005, we executed a global exclusive license with Cancer Research Technology UK for the rights to develop and commercialize an anti-CD55 antibody. This license provides to us use of intellectual property that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements with other partners in the future that provide license to us of valuable technology. The license imposes, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization milestone payments and other payment obligations on us. If we fail to reach the material milestones set forth in our development plan contained in the agreement by more than six months, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license specified in the agreement, in which event we would lose valuable rights and our ability to develop our product candidates. In addition, we entered in a collaborative research and development agreement with Sloan-Kettering Institute for the joint development of an antibody to the GD3 antigen. This agreement will expire in February 2007, unless extended by mutual consent or unless we exercise our option to negotiate an exclusive license agreement. The agreement provides that the rights in work product created under the agreement including research results, data, and records will be owned by the party that generated them and that if work product is generated jointly, it will be jointly owned by us and Sloan-Kettering. We do not have payment obligations pursuant to Sloan-Kettering collaboration. Although we have entered into discussions and negotiations with the Sloan-Kettering Institute to license the anti-GD3 antibody, it is not known if or when a license agreement will be executed. If third parties successfully assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights, or successfully challenge the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates and may cause us to seek a license to continue to develop or commercialize our product candidates, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. In the event that our technologies infringe or violate the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, marketing and selling of our product that utilizes such technologies. There may be patents held by others of which we are unaware that contain claims that our products or operations infringe. In addition, given the complexities and uncertainties of patent law, there may be patents of which we know that we may ultimately be held to infringe, particularly if the claims of the patent are determined to be broader than we believe them to be. For instance, United States and foreign patents have been issued to others for genetically engineered and human-derived interferons and methods and processes for producing transgenic birds. While we are not currently aware of any patent issues, this does not preclude a third party from filing a claim against us. In the event a third party claims that we infringe its patents, any of the following may occur: • we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent; • a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and • we may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. 31 Table of Contents Additionally, licenses may not be exclusive in which case our competitors might gain access to the same technology as to that which was licensed to us. If we failed to obtain a required license or were unable to alter the design of our product candidates to make the licenses unnecessary, we might be unable to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could significantly affect our ability to establish and grow our commercial business. Many of our employees, consultants, contractors and others may use the trade secret information of others in their work for us or they may disclose our trade secret information to others. Either of these events could lead to disputes over the ownership of inventions derived from that information or expose us to potential damages or other penalties. If any of these events occurs, our business will suffer. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent or other intellectual property rights. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and intellectual property rights in the bio-pharmaceutical industry. We may be forced to defend claims of infringement brought by our competitors and others, and we may institute litigation against others who we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights. In the future, we expect our license agreements may include certain provisions that could require us to defend claims against our licensed patents and could subject us to significant legal expenses in defense and enforcement activities. The outcome of intellectual property litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties and may, for example, turn on the interpretation of claim language by the court, which may not be to our advantage, or on the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in a significant expense to us. Some of our competitors have considerable resources available to them and a strong economic incentive to undertake substantial efforts to stop or delay us from commercializing products. We, on the other hand, are a relatively small company with comparatively few resources available to us to engage in costly and protracted litigation. Moreover, regardless of the outcome, intellectual property litigation against or by us could significantly disrupt our development and commercialization efforts, divert our management’s attention, quickly consume our financial resources or require us to disclose confidential information. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or issue patents claiming technology that is also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings with the applicable regulatory authority, including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs, and the time and attention of our management and scientific personnel will be diverted in pursuit of these proceedings. Licenses to third parties may not result in revenue to us and exclusive licenses will preclude us from seeking alternative revenue streams. One of our business strategies is to license our products or technologies to third parties. They, in turn, will use this license to produce and/or market our products and technologies. We cannot guarantee that these third parties will be able to successfully produce or market the products or technologies or that we will receive revenue from their efforts. To the extent that we grant exclusive licenses to third parties, we may be precluded from granting other parties the opportunity to conduct successful marketing activities. 32 Table of Contents Our copyrightable and trademark works are assets that must be protected. If we are unable to protect these assets, our competitive position could be weakened. Copyright law in the U.S. protects those original works of authorship fixed in a tangible medium of expression. While our intellectual property largely resides in our portfolio of patents, trademarks, and trade secrets, our works of authorship embody certain rights and may deserve protection. To the extent we create written works such as brochures, web sites, or trade show presentations, we are publishing works of authorship that may well be presented to competitors. While copyright protection subsists in such works once they are fixed (e.g., on paper or in electronic format), the added layer of protection that comes from registration is important. Without registration of a work at the appropriate territorial copyright office, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to initiate actions against alleged infringement. We may be exposed to product liability claims, and our product liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover all claims or continue to be available to us. We are exposed to the risk of product liability claims. We may be subject to claims against us even if the injury is due to the actions of others. For example, if the medical personnel that use our products on patients are not properly trained or are negligent in the use of our products, the patient may be injured through the use of our products, which may subject us to claims. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials could also expose us to product liability claims. Persons who claim to be injured from use of our products or processes, may file claims for personal injuries or other damages against us. Directives in the European Union, for example, provide for strict liability and permit compensation claims to be made within a ten year period from when the product is placed on the market, and three years from the event giving rise to the claim, thereby creating a 13 year period within which compensation claims could be asserted. Regulations in other countries and regions may differ and may expose us to incremental risks of liability. We maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $10 million. Generally, our clinical trials, including our melanoma trials, are conducted in patients with serious life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and in some cases, our product is used in combination with approved therapies that themselves have significant adverse event profiles. During the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical events or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. We cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that may result form the use of our products to cover all liabilities or defense costs we might incur. We cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate to insulate us from liabilities that may result from the use of our products. Also, in the future this type of insurance may not be available, or we may not be able to afford this form of insurance. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could give rise to substantial liability that could exceed our resources. Even if claims are not successful, the costs of defending such claims and potential adverse publicity could be harmful to our business. Our reliance on third party suppliers to supply our raw materials may disrupt operations and our ability to develop and commercialize products. We currently rely, and we expect to rely on third-party suppliers to supply our raw materials to produce our products and develop our product candidates. All of these suppliers are outside of the United States. Reliance on third-party suppliers exposes us to risks. These risks include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers, including import and export restrictions; • political or economic instability; • compliance with foreign laws; • possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; • the possible termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly and inconvenient for us; • transportation delays and interruptions; • limitations on supply availability resulting from capacity and scheduling constraints of the third party; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights in foreign countries; and • currency exchange risks. 33 Table of Contents Foreign supply arrangements may also limit our control, and could disrupt our operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact upon your investment in us. Our dependence upon others for the raw materials to produce our products and product candidates may adversely affect our business and our ability to develop our product candidates and commercialize any products that receive regulatory approval on a timely basis. The production of Multiferon® is highly dependent on the availability of human leukocytes, and any interruption in supply could adversely affect our ability to manufacture Multiferon®. We are dependent upon third party blood collection agencies to supply human leukocytes as a key raw material in the manufacture of Multiferon®. We currently maintain supply agreements, including, through our Swedish subsidiary, with the German Red Cross. The failure to maintain such agreements or obtain new ones could have a material adverse affect on us. If we are unable to obtain the necessary leukocytes, we may be required to scale back our operations or stop manufacturing Multiferon®. The costs and availability of leukocytes are subject to fluctuation depending on a variety of factors beyond our control, including competitive factors, changes in technology, and governmental regulations that may limit or prevent their availability. The financings that we have consummated are, and future financings may be, dilutive to stockholders and may adversely affect the market price for our shares of common stock. Our success in attracting additional funding has been limited to transactions in which our equity is used as currency. Financing activities during this period often have consisted of sales of our common stock at a discount to the market price and the issuance of securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock, sometimes at a discount to prevailing market prices. In light of the availability of this type of financing, and the lack of alternative proposals, our board of directors has determined that the continued use of our equity for these purposes may be necessary if we are to sustain operations. Equity financings of the type we have been required to pursue are dilutive to our stockholders and may adversely impact the market price for our shares of common stock. If we lose the services of our key management or scientific personnel, scientific collaborators or other advisors, our business and ability to attain profitable operations would suffer. The success of our business is highly dependent on our management as well as our senior manufacturing and scientific personnel. We also rely on our scientific collaborators and other advisors, particularly with respect to our research and development efforts. In addition, we require skilled personnel in areas such as business and clinical development. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. In addition, although we have employment agreements with key members of management, each of our employees, subject to applicable notice requirements, may terminate his or her employment at any time. The pool of individuals with relevant experience in bio-technology is limited, and retaining and training personnel with the skills necessary to operate our business effectively is challenging, costly and time-consuming. If we lose the services of any key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock We have received deficiency notices from the American Stock Exchange, or AMEX, and if we are unable to satisfy the AMEX that we will regain compliance with its continued listing criteria, our common stock may be delisted from AMEX, which could accelerate repayment of outstanding indebtedness, adversely affect investor perception and may result in institutional and other investors refraining from purchasing our common stock, units or warrants, which would adversely affect your ability to sell our common stock, units or warrants. We have received two deficiency letters from the AMEX, dated September 20, 2005 and March 1, 2006, advising us that, based upon our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2005, respectively, we were not in compliance with AMEX’s continued listing standards. On September 22, 2005, we received a deficiency letter from the AMEX, dated September 20, 2005, advising we are not in compliance with continued listing standards. Specifically, since the filing of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, we have not been in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) of the AMEX Company Guide with stockholders’ equity of less than $4 million and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three out of its four most recent fiscal years and Section 1003(a)(iii) with stockholders’ equity of less than $6 million and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. In order to maintain our current listing, we submitted a compliance plan on October 19, 2005 advising of the actions we are taking to regain compliance with AMEX’s continued listing standards. This plan was approved by AMEX on October 25, 2005, and AMEX granted us a conditional trading extension until March 20, 2007 to regain compliance with their continued listing standards. Additionally, on March 1, 2006, the AMEX notified us that we failed to meet an additional continued listing standard, Section 1003(a)(i) of the AMEX Company Guide with stockholders’ equity of less than $2 million and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two of our three most recent fiscal years. AMEX noted that if we are not in compliance with all continued listing standards by March 20, 2007 or do not make progress consistent with the plan during the plan period, AMEX will initiate delisting proceedings. We will be subject to periodic review by AMEX during the extension period granted by AMEX. Failure to make progress consistent with the plan we submitted to AMEX or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the extension period could result in our common stock being delisted from AMEX. In the event our common stock is delisted from AMEX, we would apply to have our common stock listed on the over-the-counter bulletin board; however, certain institutional investors have policies against investments in bulletin board companies and other investors may refrain from purchasing our common stock if it is not listed on a national securities exchange. Also, we would lose some of our existing analyst coverage and our efforts to obtain new analyst coverage would be significantly impaired. Further, our ability to sell our equity securities and debt would be significantly limited in numerous states because the exemption we utilize to sell these securities without registration under applicable state securities laws requires that our common stock be listed on AMEX. If we were required to register our equity securities or debt offerings under the securities laws of various states, no assurance will be given as to whether we would be able to obtain the necessary approvals from states’ securities administrators. To the extent our common stock were to be delisted from trading on AMEX, the value of our equity securities and our ability to sell equity securities and debt would be negatively impacted. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to repay our outstanding debt and other obligations. 35 Table of Contents Additionally, if we are delisted from AMEX, and the price of our common stock does not increase significantly, our common stock would be a “low-priced” security under the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document that describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealer’s duties in selling the stock, the customer’s rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer, obtain specific written consent from the customer, and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The effect of these restrictions may decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, decrease liquidity of our common stock and increase transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent abuses normally associated with “low- priced” securities from being established with respect to our securities. In addition, our outstanding convertible debt contains a provision that in the event our common stock is no longer traded on the AMEX, New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ, the debt holders have the right to request repayment of their investment with related accrued interest. Given our current financial position and our failure to meet the AMEX continued listing requirements, if our common stock was delisted from AMEX, we would be unable to repay these amounts and would be in default of these agreements, which would significantly hamper our ability to raise additional capital to fund our ongoing operations. The issuance of our shares upon the exercise or conversion of securities we have outstanding may cause significant dilution to our stockholders and may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. As of June 30, 2006, there were 45,765,687 shares of our common stock outstanding. The issuance of our shares upon the exercise or conversion of securities we have outstanding will increase the number of our publicly traded shares, which could depress the market price of our common stock. The perceived risk of dilution may cause our stockholders to sell their shares, which would contribute to a downward movement in the stock price of our common stock. Moreover, the perceived risk of dilution and the resulting downward pressure on our stock price could encourage investors to engage in short sales of our common stock. By increasing the number of shares offered for sale, material amounts of short selling could further contribute to progressive price declines in our common stock. As of June 30, 2006, there were 34,709,366 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise or conversion of the following securities. These securities represent approximately 76% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of June 30, 2006. Convertible preferred stock, Series A 916 Convertible preferred stock, Series J (convertible at $1.25 per share) 4,172,000 Officers, employees, and directors options (exercisable at an average price of $1.58 per share through March 2014)** 1,139,783 Consultant warrants (exercisable at an average price of $38.70 per share through February 2009) 7,500 Debt and equity offering warrants (exercisable at an average price of $1.13 per share through March 2011) 16,424,877 Convertible notes or related warrants issued upon redemption of the notes (convertible/exercisable at $1.05 per share through August 2008) 11,476,194 Convertible debentures (convertible at $1.05 per share through September 2008) 1,488,096 34,709,366 ** Includes options to purchase an aggregate of 843,000 shares of our common stock, which were granted in April 2006 under our 2006 Equity Compensation Plan. No shares issuable upon exercise of these options can be issued until our 2006 Equity Compensation Plan is approved by our stockholders. We intend to seek stockholder approval of our 2006 Equity Compensation Plan at our next annual stockholders’ meeting. 36 Table of Contents The conversion and exercise prices of outstanding securities may be reduced, and the number of shares that we issue on conversion or exercise may be increased, in the event that we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the future for consideration that is less than the conversion or exercise prices of the outstanding securities. The terms of certain of our outstanding convertible debt and warrants provide for a downward adjustment in the conversion and exercise prices in the event that we subsequently issue shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock, for consideration that is less than the conversion or exercise prices of the previously issued securities. Any reduction of the conversion or exercise prices of outstanding securities as a result of these adjustment provisions will require that we issue a greater number of shares upon conversion of convertible debt or exercise of warrants than we would have issued in the absence of these provisions. Any additional shares that we issue as a result of the adjustment provisions of these securities will cause further dilution to our existing stockholders. We are engaged in the bio-pharmaceutical industry; as a result, the market for our shares of common stock may be subject to extreme volatility. The market for securities of bio-pharmaceutical companies, including ours, has historically been more volatile than the market for stocks in general. As a result, the price and volume of our shares may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • our announcement of material events; • price fluctuations in sympathy to others engaged in our industry; and • the effects of media coverage of our business. Price and volume volatility may prevent you from selling your shares of our common stock when you desire to do so, and the inability to sell your shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase your risk of loss. Our shares have traded between a high of $1.03 and a low of $0.25 since January 1, 2005. The daily trading volume of our shares since January 1, 2005 has been volatile ranging between 23,500 and approximately 11.6 million shares in a single day. We may not have sufficient surplus to redeem our Series J cumulative convertible preferred stock or for Viragen International to redeem its Series C cumulative preferred stock or Series D cumulative preferred stock. Additionally, we may not have sufficient surplus or net profits to be able to pay dividends on such preferred stock. As a Delaware corporation, we may not declare and pay dividends on our capital if the amount paid exceeds an amount equal to the surplus which represents the excess of our net assets over paid-in-capital or, if there is no surplus, our net profits for the current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. Also, under applicable Delaware case law, dividends may not be paid on our Series J cumulative convertible preferred stock or common stock and Viragen International’s Series C cumulative preferred stock and Series D cumulative preferred stock, if we become insolvent or the payment of dividend will render us insolvent. In addition, to the extent we pay dividends and we are deemed to be insolvent or inadequately capitalized, a bankruptcy court could direct the return of any dividends. Our ability to redeem the Series J cumulative preferred stock, and the ability of Viragen International to redeem its Series C cumulative preferred stock or Series D cumulative preferred stock, will generally depend upon the amount of surplus that each corporation possesses. Additionally, a corporation may redeem shares of its preferred stock by applying some or all of the capital represented by the shares being redeemed to the redemption so long as the assets of the corporation remaining after such reduction is sufficient to pay any debts of the corporation for which payment has not otherwise been provided. 37 Table of Contents We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock any time in the foreseeable future. Our convertible debentures prohibit us from directly or indirectly paying cash dividends or distributions on our common stock. Provisions of our convertible debentures and Series A cumulative convertible preferred stock also prohibit the payment of dividends on our common stock, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, any future payment of dividends will directly depend upon our future earnings, capital requirements, financial requirements and other factors that our board of directors will consider. For the foreseeable future, we will use earnings from operations, if any, to finance our growth, and we will not pay dividends to our common stockholders. You should not rely on an investment in our common stock if you require dividend income. The only return on your investment in our common stock, if any, would most likely come from any appreciation of our common stock. As a Delaware corporation, we may not declare and pay dividends on our capital if the amount paid exceeds an amount equal to the surplus which represents the excess of our net assets over paid-in-capital or, if there is no surplus, our net profits for the current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. To the extent we pay dividends and we are deemed to be insolvent or inadequately capitalized, a bankruptcy court could direct the return of any dividends. We could use preferred stock to fund operations or resist takeovers, and the issuance of preferred stock may cause additional dilution. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 2,150 shares of Series A cumulative convertible preferred stock and 52,150 shares of Series J cumulative convertible preferred stock are issued and outstanding as of June 30, 2006. Our certificate of incorporation gives our board of directors the authority to issue preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. We may issue additional shares of preferred stock to raise money to finance our operations. We may authorize the issuance of the preferred stock in one or more series. In addition, we may set the terms of preferred stock, including: • dividend and liquidation preferences; • voting rights; • conversion privileges; • redemption terms; and • other privileges and rights of the shares of each authorized series. The issuance of large blocks of preferred stock could possibly have a dilutive effect to our existing stockholders. It can also negatively impact our existing stockholders’ liquidation preferences. In addition, while we include preferred stock in our capitalization to improve our financial flexibility, we could possibly issue our preferred stock to friendly third parties to preserve control by present management. This could occur if we become subject to a hostile takeover that could ultimately benefit us and our stockholders. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 