Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may fluctuate adversely as a result of many factors that are outside our control. Fluctuations in our operating results, for any reason, could cause our growth or operating results to fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts. For the year ended December 31, 2013, total revenue increased 13% to $175.4 million. The increase in total revenues was primarily due to an increase in influenza product sales. For further discussion of this increase, refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” included in this Annual Report. We base the scope of our operations and related expenses on our estimates of future revenues. A significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed, and we may not be able to rapidly adjust our expenses if our revenues fall short of our expectations. Our revenue estimates for future periods are based, among other factors, on estimated end-user demand for our products. Furthermore, if end-user consumption is less than estimated, revenues to our distribution partners would be expected to fall short of expectations. Factors that are beyond our control and that could affect our operating results in the future include: • seasonal fluctuations in our sales of infectious disease tests, which are generally highest in fall and winter, thus resulting in generally lower operating results in the second and third calendar quarters and higher operating results in the first and fourth calendar quarters; • timing of the onset, length and severity of the cold and flu seasons; • government and media attention focused on influenza and the related potential impact on humans from novel influenza viruses, such as H1N1 and avian flu; • changes in the level of competition, such as would occur if one of our larger and better financed competitors introduced a new or lower priced product to compete with one of our products; 12 • changes in the reimbursement systems or reimbursement amounts that end-users rely upon in choosing to use our products; • changes in economic conditions in our domestic and international markets, such as economic downturns, decreased healthcare spending, reduced consumer demand, inflation and currency fluctuations; • changes in sales levels because a significant portion of our costs are fixed costs, relatively higher sales would be expected to increase profitability, while relatively lower sales would not reduce costs by the same proportion, and could cause operating losses; • lower than anticipated market penetration of our new or more recently introduced products; • significant quantities of our product or that of our competitors in our distributors’ inventories or distribution channels; • changes in distributor buying patterns; and • changes in the health care market including consolidation in our customer base. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, obtain and protect our proprietary technology rights; otherwise, we may lose market share or need to reduce prices as a result of competitors selling technologically superior products that compete with our products. Our ability to compete successfully in the diagnostic market depends on continued development and introduction of new proprietary technology and the improvement of existing technology. If we cannot continue to develop, obtain and protect proprietary technology, our total revenue and gross profits could be adversely affected. Moreover, our current and future licenses may not be adequate for the operation of our business. Our competitive position is heavily dependent on obtaining and protecting our own proprietary technology or obtaining licenses from others. Our ability to obtain patents and licenses, and their benefits, is uncertain. We have issued patents both in the U.S. and internationally, with expiration dates ranging from the present through approximately 2030. Additionally, we have patent applications pending in various foreign jurisdictions. These pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, or if issued, may not have priority over others’ applications or may not offer meaningful protection against competitors with similar technology or may not otherwise provide commercial value. Moreover, any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, found unenforceable or circumvented in the future. In addition to our patents in the U.S., we have patents issued in various other countries including, among others, Australia, Canada, Japan and various European countries, including France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. Third parties can make, use and sell products covered by our patents in any country in which we do not have patent protection. We also license the right to use our products to our customers under label licenses that are for research purposes only. These licenses could be contested and, because we cannot monitor all potential unauthorized uses of our products around the world, we might not be aware of an unauthorized use or might not be able to enforce the license restrictions in a cost-effective manner. In the future, we expect that we will require or desire additional licenses from other parties in order to refine our products further and to allow us to develop, manufacture and market commercially viable or superior products. Also, we may not be able to obtain licenses for technology patented by others and required to produce our products on commercially reasonable terms. To protect or enforce our patent rights, it may be necessary for us to initiate patent litigation proceedings against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. These lawsuits would be expensive, take significant time and would divert management’s attention from other business concerns. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert, which could put our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly, and our patent applications at risk of not being issued. Further, these lawsuits may provoke the defendants to assert claims against us. If we pursue any such claim, we cannot assure you that we will prevail in any of such suits or proceedings or that the damages or other remedies awarded to us, if any, will be economically valuable. In addition to our patents, we rely on confidentiality agreements and other similar arrangements with our employees and other persons who have access to our proprietary and confidential information, together with trade secrets and other common law rights, to protect our proprietary and confidential technology. These agreements and laws may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information or in the event that our competitors independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those in the 13 U.S. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information, if we encounter difficulties or are otherwise unable to effectively protect our intellectual property rights domestically or in foreign jurisdictions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In order to remain competitive and profitable, we must expend considerable resources to research new technologies and products and develop new markets, and there is no assurance our efforts to develop new technologies, products or markets will be successful or such technologies, products or markets will be commercially viable. We devote a significant amount of financial resources to researching and developing new technologies, new products and new markets. The development, manufacture and sale of diagnostic products require a significant investment of resources. Moreover, no assurances can be given that our efforts to develop new technologies or products will be successful or that such technologies and products will be commercially viable. The development of new markets also requires a substantial investment of resources, such as new employees, offices and manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, we are likely to incur increased operating expenses as a result of our increased investment in sales and marketing activities, manufacturing scale-up and new product development associated with our efforts to accomplish our growth strategies discussed in Item 1 of this Annual Report. As a result of any number of risk factors identified in this Annual Report, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in implementing our operational, growth and other strategic efforts. In addition, the funds for our strategic development projects have in the past come primarily from our business operations and a working capital line of credit. If our business slows and we become less profitable, and as a result have less money available to fund research and development, we will have to decide at that time which programs to reduce or eliminate, and by how much. Similarly, if adequate financial, personnel, equipment or other resources are not available, we may be required to delay or scale back our strategic efforts. Our operations will be adversely affected if our total revenue and gross profits do not correspondingly increase or if our technology, product and market development efforts are unsuccessful or delayed. Furthermore, our failure to successfully introduce new technologies or products and develop new markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We rely on a limited number of key distributors that account for a substantial majority of our total revenue. The loss of any key distributor or an unsuccessful effort by us to directly distribute our products could lead to reduced sales. Although we have many distributor relationships in the U.S., the market is dominated by a small number of these distributors. Four of our distributors, which are considered to be among the market leaders, collectively accounted for approximately 43%, 42%, and 40% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We had sales to two distributors for whom sales exceeded 10% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. In addition, we rely on a few key distributors for a majority of our international sales, and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. The loss or termination of our relationship with any of these key distributors could significantly disrupt our business unless suitable alternatives were timely found or lost sales to one distributor are absorbed by another distributor. Finding a suitable alternative to a lost or terminated distributor may pose challenges in our industry’s competitive environment, and another suitable distributor may not be found on satisfactory terms, if at all. For instance, some distributors already have exclusive arrangements with our competitors, and others do not have the same level of penetration into our target markets as our existing distributors. If total revenue from these or any of our other significant distributors were to decrease in any material amount in the future or we are not successful in timely transitioning business to new distributors, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results are heavily dependent on sales of our influenza diagnostic tests. Although we continue to diversify our products, a significant percentage of our total revenues still continue to come from a limited number of our product families. In particular, revenues from the sale of our influenza tests represent a significant portion of our total revenues and are expected to remain so in at least the near future. In addition, the gross margins derived from sales of our influenza tests are significantly higher than the gross margins from our other core products. As a result, if sales or revenues of our influenza tests decline for any reason whether as a result of market share loss or price pressure, obsolescence, a mild flu season, regulatory matters or any other reason our operating results would be materially and adversely affected on a disproportionate basis. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, sales of our infectious disease products (including influenza test sales) accounted for 73%, 71%, and 71% respectively, of total revenue. If we are not able to manage our growth strategy or if we experience difficulties integrating companies or technologies we may acquire after their acquisition, our earnings may be adversely affected. Our business strategy contemplates further growth, which is likely to result in expanding the scope of operating and financial systems and the geographical area of our operations, including further expansion outside the U.S., as new products and technologies are developed and commercialized or new geographical markets are entered. For example, we have 14 recently completed three business acquisitions. In 2010, we acquired DHI and in 2013, we acquired BioHelix and Andiatec (collectively, the “recent acquisitions”). We may experience difficulties integrating the operations of the recent acquisitions or other companies or technologies that we may acquire with our own operations, and as a result we may not realize our anticipated benefits and cost savings within our expected time frame, or at all. Because we have a relatively small executive staff, the recent acquisitions and other future growth may also divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business, and will place a strain on existing management and our operational, financial and management information systems. Furthermore, we may expand into markets in which we have less experience or incur higher costs. We expect to need to execute a number of tasks in a timely, efficient and successful manner in order to realize the benefits and cost savings of the recent acquisitions, including retaining and assimilating key personnel, managing the regulatory and reimbursement approval processes, intellectual property protection strategies and commercialization activities, creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems, including with respect to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, and meeting the challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees potentially in different geographic locations, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The recent acquisitions or other acquisitions may subject us to other risks, including unanticipated costs and expenditures, changes in the business, currency risks, potential changes in relationships with strategic partners, potential contractual or intellectual property issues, fluctuations in quarterly results and financial condition as a result of timing of acquisitions and potential accounting charges and write-downs, and potential unknown liabilities associated with the strategic combination and the combined operations. Should we encounter difficulties in managing these tasks and risks, our growth strategy may suffer and our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Intellectual property risks and third-party claims of infringement, misappropriation of proprietary rights or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or attempt to seek licenses from third parties, and materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the defense of such claims could result in significant costs and divert the attention of our management and other key employees. Companies in or related to our industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. There are often intellectual property risks associated with developing and producing new products and entering new markets, and we may not be able to obtain, at reasonable cost or upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all, licenses to intellectual property of others that is alleged to be part of such new or existing products. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. We have hired and will continue to hire individuals or contractors who have experience in medical diagnostics and these individuals or contractors may have confidential trade secret or proprietary information of third parties. We cannot assure you that these individuals or contractors will not use this third-party information in connection with performing services for us or otherwise reveal this third-party information to us. Thus, we could be sued for misappropriation of proprietary information and trade secrets. Such claims are expensive to defend and could divert our attention and result in substantial damage awards and injunctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, to the extent that individuals or contractors apply technical or scientific information independently developed by them to our projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such data and may result in litigation. Moreover, in the past we have been engaged in litigation with parties that claim, among other matters, that we infringed their patents. The defense and prosecution of patent and trade secret claims are both costly and time consuming. We or our customers may be sued by other parties that claim that our products have infringed their patents or misappropriated their proprietary rights or that may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved with such products may perform for us, increase our costs of revenue and expose us to significant liability. As a general matter, our involvement in litigation or in any claims to determine proprietary rights, as may arise from time to time, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations for reasons such as: • pending litigation may of itself cause our distributors or end-users to reduce or terminate purchases of our products; • it may consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources; • its outcome would be uncertain and a court may find any third-party patent claims valid and infringed by our products (issuing a preliminary or permanent injunction) that would require us to procure costly licensing arrangements from third parties or withdraw or recall such products from the market, redesign such products offered for sale or under development or restrict employees from performing work in their areas of expertise; 15 • governmental agencies may commence investigations or criminal proceedings against our employees, former employees and us relating to claims of misappropriation or misuse of another party’s proprietary rights; • an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liability in the form of past royalty payments, penalties, special and punitive damages, the opposing party’s attorney fees, and future royalty payments significantly affecting our future earnings; and • failure to obtain a necessary license (upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all) upon an adverse outcome could prevent us from selling our current products or other products we may develop. Even if licenses to intellectual property rights are available, they can be costly. We have entered into various licensing agreements, which largely require payments based on specified product sales as well as the achievement of specific milestones. Royalty and license expenses under these arrangements collectively totaled $9.0 million, $9.4 million and $10.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We believe we will continue to incur substantial royalty and license expenses relating to future sales of our products and the achievement of specific milestones. In addition to the foregoing, we may also be required to indemnify some customers, distributors and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another person’s proprietary rights. Further, our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required or financially able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. Our senior credit facility imposes restrictions on our operations and activities, limits the amount we can borrow, and requires us to comply with various financial covenants. On August 10, 2012, we entered into an amended and restated $140.0 million senior secured syndicated credit facility (the “Senior Credit Facility”), which matures on August 10, 2017. The Senior Credit Facility bears interest at either on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or the base rate plus in each case the applicable margin. The base rate is equal to the highest of (i) the lender’s prime rate, (ii) the federal funds rate plus one-half of one percent and (iii) LIBOR plus one percent. The applicable margin is generally determined in accordance with a performance pricing grid based on our leverage ratio and ranges from 1.25% to 2.50% for LIBOR rate loans and from 0.25% to 1.50% for base rate loans (weighted average interest rate of 1.42% at December 31, 2013). The agreement governing the Senior Credit Facility is subject to certain customary covenants, including among others: limitation on liens; limitation on mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; limitation on debt; limitation on dividends, stock redemptions and the redemption and/or prepayment of other debt; limitation on investments (including loans and advances) and acquisitions; limitation on transactions with affiliates; and limitation on disposition of assets. We are also subject to financial covenants which include a funded debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and stock-based compensation (“adjusted EBITDA”) ratio (as defined in the Senior Credit Facility) and an interest coverage. The Senior Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our present and future assets and properties. If we fail to comply with these covenants, our Senior Credit Facility could become due and payable prior to maturity. As of December 31, 2013 we were in compliance with all financial covenants. We may incur significant additional indebtedness. Our indebtedness could be costly or have adverse consequences. We may incur significant additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions in our Senior Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2013, we had $140.0 million available under the Senior Credit Facility. Our ability to borrow under the Senior Credit Facility fluctuates from time to time due to, among other factors, our borrowings under the facility and its funded debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio. As of December 31, 2013, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility. Our borrowing capacity can fluctuate from time to time due to, among other factors, our funded debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio as and when measured under the Senior Credit Facility. Our indebtedness could be costly or have adverse consequences, such as: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; • limiting our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt obligations and other general corporate requirements; • making us more vulnerable to adverse conditions in the general economy or our industry and to fluctuations in our operating results, including affecting our ability to comply with and maintain any financial tests and ratios required under our indebtedness; 16 • limiting our flexibility to engage in certain transactions or to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the diagnostics industry; • putting us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that have less relative and/or less restrictive debt; and • subjecting us to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital or operating needs, which could have adverse consequences on our operations and the interests of our stockholders. Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results could limit the cash we have available for research and development and other operating needs or cause us to fail to comply with the financial covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness. As a result, we may need to seek to raise funds through public or private debt or sale of equity to achieve our business strategy or to avoid non-compliance with our financial covenants. In addition, we may need funds to complete acquisitions, or may issue equity in connection with acquisitions. If we raise funds or acquire other technologies or businesses through issuance of equity, this could dilute the interests of our stockholders. Moreover, the availability of additional capital, whether debt or equity from private capital sources (including banks) or the public capital markets, fluctuates as our financial condition and industry or market conditions in general change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we would not be able to access capital from these sources on favorable terms, if at all. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital. Volatility and disruption to the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to access credit and the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers. The global capital and credit markets have historically experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government. If these conditions recur, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. In addition, interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions may limit our access to capital, and may also negatively affect our customers’ and our suppliers’ ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses. As a result, our customers’ needs and ability to purchase our products or services may decrease, and our suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale. If our customers’ or suppliers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, our customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us, and our suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms or reduce or terminate production of products they supply to us. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services, or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Additionally, both state and federal government sponsored and private payers, as a result of budget deficits or reductions, may seek to reduce their health care expenditures by renegotiating their contracts with us. Any reduction in payments by such government sponsored or private payers may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. We may not achieve market acceptance of our products among healthcare providers and physicians, and this would have a negative effect on future sales. A large part of our business is based on the sale of rapid POC diagnostic tests that physicians and other healthcare providers can administer in their own facilities without sending samples to central laboratories. Clinical reference laboratories and hospital-based laboratories are significant competitors of ours in connection with these rapid POC diagnostic tests and provide a majority of the diagnostic tests used by physicians and other healthcare providers. Our future sales depend on, among other matters, capture of sales from these laboratories by achieving market acceptance of POC testing from physicians and other healthcare providers. If we do not capture sales at the levels in our budget, our total revenue will not grow as much as we expect and the costs we incur or have incurred will be disproportionate to our sales levels. We expect that clinical reference and hospital-based laboratories will continue to compete vigorously against our POC diagnostic products in order to maintain and expand their existing dominance of the overall diagnostic testing market. Moreover, even if we can demonstrate that our products are more cost-effective, save time, or have better performance, physicians and other healthcare providers may resist changing to POC tests. Our failure to achieve market acceptance from physicians and healthcare providers with respect to the use of our POC diagnostic products would have a negative effect on our future sales growth. 17 The industry and market segment in which we operate are highly competitive, and intense competition with other providers of diagnostic products may reduce our sales and margins. Our diagnostic tests compete with similar products made by our competitors. There are a large number of multinational and regional competitors making investments in competing technologies and products, including several large pharmaceutical and diversified healthcare companies. In addition, there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets over the last few years. We may not be able to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated industry and cannot predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or us. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation may continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We also face competition from our distributors as some have created, and others may decide to create, their own products to compete with ours. A number of our competitors have a potential competitive advantage because they have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources, and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we have. Moreover, some competitors offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than we have. If our competitors’ products are more effective than ours or take market share from our products through more effective marketing or competitive pricing, our total revenue and profits could be materially and adversely affected. Our products are highly regulated by various governmental agencies. Any changes to the existing laws and regulations may adversely impact our ability to manufacture and market our products. The testing, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates most of our products, which are currently all Class I or II devices. The U.S. Department of Agriculture regulates our veterinary products. Our future performance depends on, among other matters, when and at what cost we will receive regulatory approval for new products. In addition, certain of our foreign product registrations are owned or controlled by our international distribution partners, such that any change in our arrangement with such partners could result in the loss of or delay in transfer of any such product registrations, thereby interrupting our ability to sell our products in those markets. Regulatory review can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, making the timing and costs of clearances and approvals difficult to predict. Our total revenue would be negatively affected by failures or delays in the receipt of approvals or clearances, the loss of previously received approvals or clearances or the placement of limits on the marketing and use of our products. Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business, we must frequently make subjective judgments with respect to compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If regulators subsequently disagree with the manner in which we have sought to comply with these regulations, we could be subjected to substantial civil and criminal penalties, as well as field corrective actions, product recall, seizure or injunction with respect to the sale of our products. The assessment of any civil and criminal penalties against us could severely impair our reputation within the industry and affect our operating results, and any limitation on our ability to manufacture and market our products could also have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, the FDA has recently proposed reclassifications of rapid influenza detection devices from Class I to Class II devices. If such reclassifications affected the ability to market rapid influenza products, our total revenue may be negatively affected. Changes in government policy could adversely affect our business and profitability. Changes in government policy could have a significant impact on our business by increasing the cost of doing business, affecting our ability to sell our products and negatively impacting our profitability. Such changes could include modifications to existing legislation, such as U.S. tax policy, or entirely new legislation, such as the Affordable Healthcare Act in the U.S. Although we cannot fully predict the many ways that health care reform might affect our business, the law imposes a 2.3% medical device excise tax on certain transactions, including many U.S. sales of medical devices, which will include the majority of our US product sales. This tax took effect January 1, 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we incurred $1.8 million related to the new medical device tax. It is unclear whether and to what extent, if at all, other anticipated developments resulting from health care reform, such as an increase in the number of people with health insurance, may provide us additional revenue to offset this increased tax. If additional revenue does not materialize, or if our efforts to offset the excise tax through spending cuts or other actions are unsuccessful, the increased tax burden will adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to numerous government regulations in addition to FDA regulation, and compliance with laws, including changed or new laws, could increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. In addition to FDA and other regulations referred to above, numerous laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances impact our business operations. If these laws or their interpretation change or new laws regulating any of our businesses are adopted, the costs of compliance with these laws could substantially increase our overall costs. Failure to comply with any laws, including laws regulating the manufacture and marketing of our products, could result in substantial costs and loss of sales or customers. Because of the number and extent of the laws and regulations affecting our industry, and the number of governmental agencies whose actions could affect our operations, it is impossible to reliably predict the full nature and impact of future legislation or regulatory developments relating to our industry and our products. To the extent the costs and procedures associated with meeting new or changing requirements are substantial, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 We use hazardous materials in our business that may result in unexpected and substantial claims against us relating to handling, storage or disposal. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. These regulations include federal statutes commonly known as CERCLA, RCRA and the Clean Water Act. Compliance with these laws and regulations is already expensive. If any governmental authorities were to impose new environmental regulations requiring compliance in addition to that required by existing regulations, or alter their interpretation of the requirements of such regulations, such environmental regulations could impair our research, development or production efforts by imposing additional, and possibly substantial, costs, restrictions or compliance procedures on our business. In addition, because of the nature of the penalties provided for in some of these environmental regulations, we could be required to pay sizeable fines, penalties or damages in the event of noncompliance with environmental laws. Any environmental violation or remediation requirement could also partially or completely shut down our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated and exposure of individuals to these materials could result in substantial fines, penalties or damages that are not covered by insurance. Our total revenue could be affected by third-party reimbursement policies and potential cost constraints. The end-users of our products are primarily physicians and other healthcare providers. In the U.S., healthcare providers such as hospitals and physicians who purchase diagnostic products generally rely on third-party payers, principally private health insurance plans, federal Medicare and state Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the procedure. Use of our products would be adversely impacted if physicians and other health care providers do not receive adequate reimbursement for the cost of our products by their patients’ third-party payers. Our total revenue could also be adversely affected by changes or trends in reimbursement policies of these governmental or private healthcare payers. We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry, both foreign and domestic, to reduce the cost of products and services. Given the efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs in the U.S. in recent years, currently available levels of reimbursement may not continue to be available in the future for our existing products or products under development. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available or adequate in either the U.S. or foreign markets, current reimbursement amounts may be decreased in the future and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers may reduce the demand for our products or adversely impact our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Unexpected increases in, or inability to meet, demand for our products could require us to spend considerable resources to meet the demand or harm our reputation and customer relationships if we are unable to meet demand. Our inability to meet customer demand for our products, whether as a result of manufacturing problems or supply shortfalls, could harm our customer relationships and impair our reputation within the industry. In addition, our product manufacturing of certain product lines is concentrated in one or more of our manufacturing sites. Weather, natural disasters (including pandemics), terrorism, political change, failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors or damage to one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we experience unexpected increases in the demand for our products, we may be required to expend additional capital resources to meet these demands. These capital resources could involve the cost of new machinery or even the cost of new manufacturing facilities. This would increase our capital costs, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash resources. If we are unable to develop or obtain necessary manufacturing capabilities in a timely manner, our total revenue could be adversely affected. Failure to cost-effectively increase production volumes, if required, or lower than anticipated yields or production problems, including those encountered as a result of changes that we may make in our manufacturing processes to meet increased demand or changes in applicable laws and regulations, could result in shipment delays as well as increased manufacturing costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our total revenue and profitability. Unexpected increases in demand for our products could also require us to obtain additional raw materials in order to manufacture products to meet the demand. Some raw materials require significant ordering lead time and we may not be able to timely access sufficient raw materials in the event of an unexpected increase in demand, particularly those obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. 19 Interruptions in the supply of raw materials and components could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Some of our raw materials and components are currently obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We have long-term supply agreements with many of these suppliers, but these long-term agreements involve risks for us, such as our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of quality raw materials and components and our reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery. It is also possible that one or more of these suppliers may become unwilling or unable to deliver materials or components to us. In addition, due to regulatory requirements relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis or without excessive cost. Any shortfall in our supply of raw materials and components, and our inability to quickly and cost-effectively obtain alternative sources for this supply, could have a material adverse effect on our total revenue or cost of sales and related profits. In addition, we use third party packaging companies to ship our products to customers. An interruption in the businesses of these third party packaging companies could result in a delay of shipments to customers. If one or more of our products is claimed to be defective, we could be subject to claims of liability and harm to our reputation that could adversely affect our business. A claim of a defect in the design or manufacture of our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation or product lines in the industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to business risk which, if not covered by insurance, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We face a number of business risks, including exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain insurance for a number of these risks, we may face claims for types of damages, or for amounts of damages, that are not covered by our insurance. For example, although we currently carry product liability insurance for liability losses, there is a risk that product liability or other claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policy. Also, our existing insurance may not be renewed at the same cost and level of coverage as currently in effect, or may not be renewed at all. Further, we do not currently have insurance against many environmental risks we confront in our business. If we are held liable for a claim against which we are not insured or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, whether arising out of product liability matters or from some other matter, that claim could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We manage our businesses utilizing complex computer systems that require regular maintenance and upgrades; an interruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs. We utilize complex computer systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units. Regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are necessary. We cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. We cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. In particular, any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. Our business could be negatively affected by the loss of or the inability to hire key personnel. Our future success depends in part on our ability to retain our key technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel and our ability to identify and hire additional qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, both in the industry in which we operate and where our operations are located. Further, we expect to grow our operations, and our needs for additional management and other key personnel are expected to increase. If we are not able to retain existing key personnel, or timely identify and hire replacement or additional qualified personnel to meet expected growth, our business could be adversely impacted. We face risks relating to our international sales, including inherent economic, political and regulatory risks, which could impact our financial performance, cause interruptions in our current business operations and impede our growth. Our products are sold internationally, with the majority of our international sales to our customers in Europe and Asia-Pacific. We currently sell and market our products through distributor organizations and sales agents. Sales to foreign customers accounted for 13%, 14%, and 14% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our international sales are subject to inherent economic, political and regulatory risks, which could impact our financial performance, cause interruptions in our current business operations and impede our international growth. These foreign risks include, among others: • compliance with multiple different registration requirements and new and changing registration requirements, our inability to benefit from registration for our products inasmuch as registrations may be controlled by a distributor, and the difficulty in transitioning our product registrations; 20 • compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including U.S. laws such as import/export limitations, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, could expose us or our employees to fines and criminal sanctions and damage our reputation; • tariffs or other barriers as we continue to expand into new countries and geographic regions; • exposure to currency exchange fluctuations against the U.S. dollar; • longer payment cycles, generally lower average selling prices and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • reduced, or lack of, protection for, and enforcement of, intellectual property rights; • political and economic instability in some of the regions where we currently sell our products or that we may expand into in the future; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • diversion to the U.S. of our products sold into international markets at lower prices. Currently, the majority of our international sales are negotiated for and paid in U.S. dollars. Nonetheless, these sales are subject to currency risks, since changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar can render our products comparatively more expensive. These exchange rate fluctuations could negatively impact international sales of our products, as could changes in the general economic conditions in those markets. In order to maintain a competitive price for our products internationally, we may have to continue to provide discounts or otherwise effectively reduce our prices, resulting in a lower margin on products sold internationally. Continued change in the values of the Euro, the Japanese Yen and other foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have certain supply agreements with foreign vendors whereby we share the foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. We may, in the future, enter into similar arrangements. Risks Related to Our Common Shares Our stock price has been highly volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a significant decline in value. The market price of our common shares has been highly volatile and has fluctuated substantially in the past. For example, between December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2013, the closing price of our common shares, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Market, has ranged from a low of $14.18 to a high of $30.89. We expect our common shares to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the risk factors discussed herein. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market and the market for healthcare companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that, at times, have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the relevant companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Future sales or other dilution of our equity could depress the market price of our common shares. Sales of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively impact the market price of our common shares. As of December 31, 2013: • approximately 34.1 million of our common shares were issued and outstanding, most of which are generally tradable in the public markets without restrictions; • approximately 2.0 million of our common shares were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options under our various equity incentive plans at a weighted average exercise price of $12.76; and • we had approximately 0.5 million of our common shares underlying restricted stock units. We also have a number of institutional stockholders that own significant blocks of our common shares. If one or more of these stockholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our common shares could be negatively affected. 21 In addition, the issuance of additional common shares, or issuances of securities convertible into or exercisable for our common shares or other equity linked securities, including, convertible debt, preferred stock or warrants, could dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders and could depress the market price of our common shares and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We may need to seek additional capital. If this additional financing is obtained through the issuance of equity securities, debt convertible into equity or options or warrants to acquire equity securities, our existing stockholders could experience significant dilution upon the issuance, conversion or exercise of such securities. Our governing documents may delay stockholder actions with respect to business combinations or the election of directors, or delay or prevent a sale of the company or changes in management. Our governing documents may have the effect of delaying stockholder actions with respect to business combinations or the election of directors, or delaying or preventing a sale of the company or a change in our management, including the following: • Our amended and restated bylaws include advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that require stockholders to give written notice of any proposal or director nomination to us within a specified period of time prior to any stockholder meeting and do not permit stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders, unless such stockholders hold not less than 50% of our stock entitled to vote at the meeting. • Our Board of Directors may approve the issuance, without further action by the stockholders, of our preferred shares, and fix the rights and preferences thereof. An issuance of preferred shares with dividend and liquidation rights senior to our common shares or convertible into a large number of our common shares could prevent a potential acquirer from gaining effective economic or voting control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 