Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may fluctuate adversely as a result of many factors that are outside our control. Fluctuations in our operating results, for any reason, could cause our growth or operating results to fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts. For the year ended December 31, 2009, total revenue increased 28% to $164.3 million from $128.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. This was largely driven by increased global sales of our influenza products. For further discussion of this increase, refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” included in this Annual Report. 10 Table of Contents Our sales estimates for future periods are based on estimated end-user demand for our products. Sales to our distribution partners would fall short of expectations if distributor inventories increase because of less than estimated end-user consumption. Other factors that are beyond our control and that could affect our operating results in the future include: • seasonal fluctuations in our sales of infectious disease tests, which are generally highest in fall and winter, thus resulting in generally lower operating results in the second calendar quarter and higher operating results in the first, third and fourth calendar quarters; • timing of the onset, length and severity of the cold and flu seasons; • government and media attention focused on influenza and the related potential impact on humans from novel influenza viruses, including H1N1 and avian flu; • changes in the level of competition, such as would occur if one of our larger and better financed competitors introduced a new or lower priced product to compete with one of our products; • changes in the reimbursement systems or reimbursement amounts that end-users rely upon in choosing to use our products; • changes in economic conditions in our domestic and international markets, such as economic downturns, decreased healthcare spending, reduced consumer demand, inflation and currency fluctuations; • changes in sales levels, since a significant portion of our costs are fixed costs with the result that relatively higher sales could likely increase profitability but relatively lower sales would not reduce costs by the same proportion, and hence could cause operating losses; • lower than anticipated market penetration of our new or more recently introduced products; • significant quantities of our product in our distributors’ inventories or distribution channels; and • changes in distributor buying patterns. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop or obtain proprietary technology rights; otherwise, other companies may increase their market share by selling technologically superior products that compete with our products. Our competitive position is heavily dependent on obtaining and protecting our own proprietary technology or obtaining licenses from others. Our ability to compete successfully in the diagnostic market depends on continued development and introduction of new proprietary technology and the improvement of existing technology. If we cannot continue to develop, obtain and protect proprietary technology, our total revenue and gross profits could be adversely affected. Moreover, our current and future licenses may not be adequate for the operation of our business. Our ability to obtain patents and licenses, and their benefits, is uncertain. We have issued patents both in the U.S. and internationally, with expiration dates ranging from the present through approximately 2029. Additionally, we have patent applications pending throughout the world. These pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, or if issued, may not have priority over others’ applications or may not offer protection against competitors with similar technology. Moreover, any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. In addition to the U.S., we have patents issued in various other countries including, for example, Australia, Canada, Japan and various European countries including France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom. Third parties can make, use and sell products covered by our patents in any country in which we do not have patent protection. We also license the right to use our products to our customers under label licenses that are for research purposes only. These licenses could be contested and, because we cannot monitor all potential unauthorized uses of our products around the world, we might not be aware of an unauthorized use and might not be able to enforce the license restrictions in a cost-effective manner. Also, we may not be able to obtain licenses for technology patented by others and required to produce our products on commercially reasonable terms. 11 Table of Contents In order to remain competitive and profitable, we must expend considerable resources to research new technologies and products and develop new markets. Our failure to successfully introduce new technologies and products and develop new markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We devote a significant amount of financial resources to researching and developing new technologies, new products and new markets. The development, manufacture and sale of diagnostic products require a significant investment of resources. Moreover, no assurances can be given that our efforts to develop new technologies or products will be successful or commercially viable. The development of new markets also requires a substantial investment of resources, such as new employees, offices and manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, we are likely to incur increased operating expenses as a result of our increased investment in sales and marketing activities, manufacturing scale-up and new product development associated with our efforts to accomplish our business strategy discussed in Item 1 of this Annual Report. As a result of any number of risk factors identified in this Annual Report, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in implementing our operational, growth and other strategic efforts. In addition, the funds for our strategic development projects have in the past come primarily from our business operations and a working capital line of credit. If our business slows and we become less profitable, and as a result have less money available to fund research and development, we will have to decide at that time which programs to reduce, and by how much. Similarly, if adequate financial, personnel, equipment or other resources are not available, we may be required to delay or scale back our strategic efforts. Our operations will be adversely affected if our total revenue and gross profits do not correspondingly increase or if our technology, product and market development efforts are unsuccessful or delayed. Furthermore, our failure to successfully introduce new products and develop new markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We rely on a limited number of key distributors which account for a substantial majority of our total revenue. The loss of any key distributor or an unsuccessful effort to directly distribute our products could lead to reduced sales. Although we have many distributor relationships in the U.S., the market is dominated by a small group of these distributors. Four of our distributors, which are considered to be among the market leaders, collectively accounted for approximately 52%, 57% and 56% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We had sales to four separate distributors for whom sales to each exceeded 10% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. These distributors were Cardinal, PSS, McKesson and Fisher. In addition, we rely on a few key distributors for a majority of our international sales, and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. The loss or termination of our relationship with any of these key distributors could significantly disrupt our business unless suitable alternatives were timely found or lost sales to one distributor are absorbed by another distributor. Finding a suitable alternative may pose challenges in our industry’s competitive environment, and another suitable distributor may not be found on satisfactory terms. For instance, some distributors already have exclusive arrangements with our competitors, and others do not have the same level of penetration into our target markets as our existing distributors. If total revenue to these or any of our other significant distributors were to decrease in any material amount in the future or we are not successful in timely transitioning business to new distributors, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results are heavily dependent on sales of our influenza diagnostic tests. Revenues from the sale of our influenza tests represent a significant portion of our total revenues and are expected to remain so in at least the near future. In addition, the gross margins derived from sales of our influenza tests are significantly higher than the gross margins from our other core products. As a result, if sales of our influenza tests decline for any reason—whether as a result of market share loss or price pressure, obsolescence, a mild flu season, regulatory matters or any other reason—our operating results would be materially and adversely affected on a disproportionate basis. If we are not able to manage our growth strategy or if we experience difficulties integrating companies or technologies we may acquire after the acquisition, our earnings may be adversely affected. Our business strategy contemplates further growth in the scope of operating and financial systems and the geographical area of our operations, including further expansion outside the U.S., as new products are developed and commercialized or new geographical markets are entered. As discussed elsewhere, we acquired DHI on February 19, 2010. We may experience difficulties integrating the operations of DHI and other companies or technologies that we may acquire with our own operations, and as a result we may not realize our anticipated benefits and cost savings within our expected time frame, or at all. Because we have a relatively small executive staff, future growth may also divert management’s 12 Table of Contents attention from other aspects of our business, and will place a strain on existing management and our operational, financial and management information systems. Furthermore, we may expand into markets in which we have less experience or incur higher costs. Should we encounter difficulties in managing these tasks, our growth strategy may suffer and our total revenue and gross profits could be adversely affected. Intellectual property risks and third-party claims of infringement, misappropriation of proprietary rights or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the defense of such claims could result in significant costs and divert the attention of our management and other key employees. Companies in or related to our industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. There are often intellectual property risks associated with developing and producing new products and entering new markets, and we may not be able to obtain, at reasonable cost and upon commercially reasonable terms, licenses to intellectual property of others that is alleged to be part of such new or existing products. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. Moreover, in the past we have been engaged in litigation with parties that claim, among other matters, that we infringed their patents. We or our customers may be sued by other parties that claim that our products have infringed their patents or misappropriated their proprietary rights or which may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved with such products may perform for us, increase our costs of revenue and expose us to significant liability. As a general matter, our involvement in litigation or in any claims to determine proprietary rights, as may arise from time to time, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations for reasons such as: • pending litigation may of itself cause our distributors or end-users to reduce purchases of our products; • it may consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources; • its outcome would be uncertain and a court may find any third-party patent claims valid and infringed by our products (issuing a preliminary or permanent injunction) that would require us to withdraw or recall such products from the market, redesign such products offered for sale or under development or restrict employees from performing work in their areas of expertise; • governmental agencies may commence investigations or criminal proceedings against our employees, former employees and us relating to claims of misappropriation or misuse of another party’s proprietary rights; • an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liability in the form of past royalty payments, penalties, special and punitive damages and future royalty payments significantly affecting our future earnings; and • failure to obtain a necessary license (upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all) upon an adverse outcome could prevent us from selling our current products or other products we may develop. In addition to the foregoing, we may also indemnify some customers, distributors and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another party’s proprietary rights. Further, our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required or financially able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. 13 Table of Contents Volatility and disruption to the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to access credit and the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers. During 2008, the global capital and credit markets experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. These conditions could adversely affect the demand for our products and services and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. In addition, interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions may limit our access to capital, and may also negatively affect our customers’ and our suppliers’ ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses. As a result, our customers’ needs and ability to purchase our products or services may decrease, and our suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale. If our customers’ or suppliers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, our customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us, and our suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services, or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Additionally, both state and federal government sponsored payers, as a result of budget deficits or reductions, may seek to reduce their health care expenditures by renegotiating their contracts with us. Any reduction in payments by such government sponsored payers may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. If economic conditions remain volatile, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not achieve market acceptance of our products among physicians and other healthcare providers, and this would have a negative effect on future sales growth. A large part of our business is based on the sale of rapid POC diagnostic tests that physicians and other healthcare providers can administer in their own facilities without sending samples to central laboratories. Clinical reference laboratories and hospital-based laboratories are significant competitors of ours in connection with these rapid POC diagnostic tests and provide a majority of the diagnostic tests used by physicians and other healthcare providers. Our future sales depend on, among other matters, capture of sales from these laboratories by achieving market acceptance of POC testing from physicians and other healthcare providers. If we do not capture sales at the levels we have budgeted for, our total revenue will not grow as much as we hope and the costs we have incurred will be disproportionate to our sales levels. We expect that clinical reference and hospital-based laboratories will continue to compete vigorously against our POC diagnostic products in order to maintain and expand their existing dominance of the overall diagnostic testing market. Moreover, even if we can demonstrate that our products are more cost-effective or save time, physicians and other healthcare providers may resist changing to POC tests. Our failure to achieve market acceptance from physicians and healthcare providers with respect to the use of our POC diagnostic products would have a negative effect on our future sales growth. Intense competition with other providers of POC diagnostic products may reduce our sales. In addition to competition from laboratories, our POC diagnostic tests compete with similar products made by our competitors. There are a large number of multinational and regional competitors making investments in competing technologies and products, including several large pharmaceutical and diversified healthcare companies. We also face competition from our distributors since some have created, and others may decide to create, their own products to compete with ours. A number of our competitors have a potential competitive advantage because they have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources, and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we have. These competitors include, among others, IMA, Beckman, Fisher, Genzyme and Becton. Moreover, some competitors offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than we have. If our competitors’ products are more effective than ours or acquire market share from our products through more effective marketing or competitive pricing, our total revenue and profits could be materially and adversely affected. Competition also has the effect of limiting the prices we can charge for our products. Our products are highly regulated by various governmental agencies. Any changes to the existing laws and regulations may adversely impact our ability to manufacture and market our products. The testing, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates most of our products, which are currently all Class I or II devices. The U.S. Department of Agriculture regulates our veterinary products. Our future performance depends on, among other matters, our estimates as to when and at what cost we will receive regulatory approval for new products. In addition, certain of our foreign product registrations are owned or controlled by our international distribution partners that could result in the loss of or delay in transfer of any such product registrations, thereby 14 Table of Contents interrupting our ability to sell our products in those markets. Regulatory approval can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, making the timing and costs of approvals difficult to predict. Our total revenue would be negatively affected by failures or delays in the receipt of approvals or clearances, the loss of previously received approvals or clearances or the placement of limits on the marketing and use of our products. Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business, we must frequently make subjective judgments with respect to compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If regulators subsequently disagree with the manner in which we have sought to comply with these regulations, we could be subjected to substantial civil and criminal penalties, as well as product recall, seizure or injunction with respect to the sale of our products. The assessment of any civil and criminal penalties against us could severely impair our reputation within the industry and any limitation on our ability to manufacture and market our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to numerous government regulations in addition to FDA regulation, and compliance with changes could increase our costs. In addition to FDA and other regulations described previously, numerous laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances impact our business operations. If these laws change or laws regulating any of our businesses are added, the costs of compliance with these laws could substantially increase our costs. Failure to comply with any future modifications of these laws or laws regulating the manufacture and marketing of our products could result in substantial costs and loss of sales or customers. Because of the number and extent of the laws and regulations affecting our industry, and the number of governmental agencies whose actions could affect our operations, it is impossible to reliably predict the full nature and impact of future legislation or regulatory developments relating to our industry. To the extent the costs and procedures associated with meeting new requirements are substantial, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We use hazardous materials in our business that may result in unexpected and substantial claims against us relating to handling, storage or disposal. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. These regulations include federal statutes popularly known as CERCLA, RCRA and the Clean Water Act. Compliance with these laws and regulations is already expensive. If any governmental authorities were to impose new environmental regulations requiring compliance in addition to that required by existing regulations, these future environmental regulations could impair our research, development or production efforts by imposing additional, and possibly substantial, costs on our business. In addition, because of the nature of the penalties provided for in some of these environmental regulations, we could be required to pay sizeable fines, penalties or damages in the event of noncompliance with environmental laws. Any environmental violation or remediation requirement could also partially or completely shut down our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated and exposure of individuals to these materials could result in substantial fines, penalties or damages that are not covered by insurance. Our total revenue could be affected by third-party reimbursement policies and potential cost constraints. The end-users of our products are primarily physicians and other healthcare providers. Use of our products would be adversely impacted if physicians do not receive adequate reimbursement for the cost of our products by their patients’ healthcare insurers or payers. Our total revenue could also be adversely affected by changes or trends in reimbursement policies of these governmental or private healthcare payers. In the U.S., healthcare providers such as hospitals and physicians who purchase diagnostic products generally rely on third-party payers, principally private health insurance plans, federal Medicare and state Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the procedure. We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry, both foreign and domestic, to reduce the cost of products and services. Given the efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs in the U.S. in recent years, currently available levels of reimbursement may not continue to be available in the future for our existing products or products under development. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available or adequate in either the U.S. or foreign markets, current reimbursement amounts may be decreased in the future and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers may reduce the demand for our products or adversely impact our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. 15 Table of Contents Unexpected increases in, or inability to meet, current demand for our products could require us to spend considerable resources to meet the demand or harm our customer relationships if we are unable to meet demand. Our inability to meet customer demand for our products, whether as a result of manufacturing problems or supply shortfalls, could harm our customer relationships and impair our reputation within the industry. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we experience unexpected increases in the demand for our products, we may be required to expend additional capital resources to meet these demands. These capital resources could involve the cost of new machinery or even the cost of new manufacturing facilities. This would increase our capital costs, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash resources. If we are unable to develop necessary manufacturing capabilities in a timely manner, our total revenue could be adversely affected. Failure to cost-effectively increase production volumes, if required, or lower than anticipated yields or production problems encountered as a result of changes that we may make in our manufacturing processes to meet increased demand or changes in applicable laws and regulations, could result in shipment delays as well as increased manufacturing costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our total revenue and profitability. Unexpected increases in demand for our products could also require us to obtain additional raw materials in order to manufacture products to meet the demand. Some raw materials require significant ordering lead time and some are currently obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We have long-term supply agreements with many of these suppliers, but these long-term agreements involve risks for us, such as our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of raw materials and components and our reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery. It is also possible that one or more of these suppliers may become unwilling or unable to deliver materials to us. Any shortfall in our supply of raw materials and components, and our inability to quickly and cost-effectively obtain alternative sources for this supply, could have a material adverse effect on our total revenue or cost of sales and related profits. If one or more of our products proves to be defective, we could be subject to claims of liability that could adversely affect our business. A defect in the design or manufacture of our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Any substantial underinsured loss resulting from such a claim would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and the damage to our reputation in the industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to business risk which, if not covered by insurance, could have an adverse effect on our profits. Claims may be made against us for types of damages, or for amounts of damages, that are not covered by our insurance. For example, although we currently carry product liability insurance for liability losses, there is a risk that product liability or other claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policy. Also, if we are held liable, our existing insurance may not be renewed at the same cost and level of coverage as currently in effect, or may not be renewed at all. Further, we do not currently have insurance against many environmental risks we confront in our business. If we are held liable for a claim against which we are not insured or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, whether arising out of product liability matters or from some other matter, that claim could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Our business could be negatively affected by the loss of or the inability to hire key personnel. Our future success depends in part on our ability to retain our key technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel and our ability to identify and hire additional qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, both in the industry in which we operate and also in Santa Clara and San Diego, where our headquarters and the majority of our operations are located. Further, we expect to grow our operations, and our needs for additional management and other key personnel are expected to increase. If we are not able to retain existing key personnel, or identify and hire additional qualified personnel to meet expected growth, our business could be adversely impacted. We face risks relating to our international sales, including inherent economic, political and regulatory risks, which could increase our costs, cause interruptions in our current business operations and stifle our growth opportunities. Our products are sold internationally, with the majority of our international sales to our customers in Japan, Europe and the Middle East. We currently sell and market our products by channeling products through distributor organizations and sales agents. Sales to foreign customers accounted for 21%, 15%, and 14% of our total revenue for the years ended 16 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our international sales are subject to inherent economic, political and regulatory risks, which could increase our operating costs, cause interruptions in our current business operations and impede our international growth. These foreign risks include, among others: • compliance with new and changing registration requirements, our inability to benefit from registration for our products inasmuch as registrations may be controlled by a distributor, the difficulty in the transitioning of our product registrations, and tariffs or other barriers as we continue to expand into new countries and geographic regions; • exposure to currency exchange fluctuations against the U.S. dollar; • longer payment cycles, generally lower average selling prices and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • reduced protection for, and enforcement of, intellectual property rights; • political and economic instability in some of the regions where we currently sell our products or that we may expand into in the future; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • diversion of our products to the U.S. from products sold into international markets at lower prices. Currently, all of our international sales are negotiated for and paid in U.S. dollars. Nonetheless, these sales are subject to currency risks, since changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar can render our products comparatively more expensive. These exchange rate fluctuations could negatively impact international sales of our products, as could changes in the general economic conditions in those markets. In order to maintain a competitive price for our products internationally, we may have to continue to provide discounts or otherwise effectively reduce our prices, resulting in a lower margin on products sold internationally. Continued change in the values of the Euro, the Japanese Yen and other foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently hedge against exchange rate fluctuations, which means that we are fully exposed to exchange rate changes. Investor confidence and share value may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accounting firm conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring us, as a public company, to include a report of management on our internal controls over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. How companies are implementing these requirements, including internal control reforms, if any, to comply with Section 404’s requirements, and how independent registered public accounting firms are applying these requirements and testing companies’ internal controls, remain subject to uncertainty. The requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are ongoing. We expect that our internal controls will continue to evolve as our business activities change. Although we seek to diligently and vigorously review our internal controls over financial reporting in an effort to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. If, during any year, our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated, tested or assessed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then it may issue a report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and effectiveness of our internal controls, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been highly volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a significant decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and has fluctuated substantially in the past. For example, as of the end of each quarter period between December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2009, the closing price of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Market, has ranged from a low of $7.92 to a high of $20.84. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the risk factors discussed above. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that, at times, have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the relevant companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Future sales by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009: • approximately 29.0 million shares of our common stock had been issued in registered offerings and 28.8 million are generally tradable in the public markets without restrictions; and • approximately 2.8 million shares of our common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options under our various equity incentive plans at a weighted average exercise price of $11.41. We are unable to estimate the number of shares of our common stock that may actually be resold in the public market since this will depend on the market price for our common stock, the individual circumstances of the sellers and other factors. We also have a number of institutional stockholders that own significant blocks of our common stock. If one or more of these stockholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Anti-takeover devices may prevent a sale, or changes in the management, of the Company. We have in place several anti-takeover devices, including a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a sale, or changes in the management, of the Company. For example, our bylaws require stockholders to give written notice of any proposal or director nomination to us within a specified period of time prior to any stockholder meeting. We may also issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and on terms that our Board of Directors may determine in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding stock, and the holders of such preferred stock could have voting, dividend, liquidation and other rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. We do not pay dividends and this may negatively affect the price of our stock. We have not paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The future price of our common stock may be adversely impacted because we have not paid and do not anticipate paying dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 