Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 7 Our indebtedness subjects our business to restrictive covenants and may limit our ability to borrow additional funds and efficiently operate the business. Our credit agreement, as amended (the “Credit Agreement”), with KeyBank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association contains financial covenants including a minimum tangible net worth, leverage ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio and a required level of profitability. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a number of limitations on the ability of the Company and its restricted U.S. subsidiaries to (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) pay dividends or redeem any Common Stock, (iii) incur liens or other encumbrances on assets, (iv) enter into transactions with affiliates, (v) merge with or into any other entity or (vi) sell assets. Additionally, any “material adverse change” of the Company could restrict our ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement and could also be deemed an event of default under the Credit Agreement. A “material adverse change” is defined as a change in our financial or other condition, business, affairs or prospects or our properties and assets considered as an entirety that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect, as defined in the Credit Agreement, on us. In addition, any “Change of Control” of the Company or its restricted U.S. subsidiaries will constitute a default under the Credit Agreement. “Change of Control,” as defined in the Credit Agreement, is summarized as follows: (i) the acquisition of, or, if earlier, the shareholder or director approval of the acquisition of, ownership or voting control, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any person, entity, or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as then in effect), of shares representing more than 50% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Common Stock of the Company; (ii) the occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Company by individuals who were neither (A) nominated by the Company’s board of directors nor (B) appointed by directors so nominated; (iii) the occurrence of a change in control, or other similar provision, under or with respect to any “Material Indebtedness Agreement” (as defined in the Credit Agreement); or (iv) the failure of the Company to own directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding equity interests of the Company’s Bayshore Industrial L.P. and ICO Polymers North America, Inc. subsidiaries. In addition to the “Change of Control” clause under the Keybank agreement, certain of our foreign loan agreements and credit facilities also have “Change of Control” provisions. However, unlike the Keybank agreement, such “Change of Control” provisions are only triggered upon consummation of a transaction that constitutes a ‘Change of Control”. As of September 30, 2009, we had approximately $11.4 million of borrowings outstanding and $9.6 million of available borrowings under these agreements. Changes in the cost and availability of polymers could adversely affect the Company. Polymers (i.e., resins) are a key ingredient of our products, and changes in the cost and availability of resins (generally produced by the major chemical companies) are outside of our control. If resin costs increase, whether because of higher oil and gas prices or because of lower supplies, we may be forced to increase the prices at which we sell our products to our customers. An increase in our prices may result in lower customer demand for our products, thereby adversely affecting our business. Additionally, higher resin prices will lead to higher working capital requirements which could result in higher debt and associated interest expense. On the other hand, a perception that resin costs will be declining in the near future may, in the short term, result in a decrease in customer demand for our products as customers wait for lower resin prices to be reflected in the price of our products, which could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in economic activity could adversely affect us. Our business cycles are affected by changes in the level of economic activity in the various regions in which we operate. Our business cycles are generally volatile and relatively unpredictable. In addition, we are affected by cycles in the petroleum and oil and gas industries. The length of these business cycles is outside of the Company’s control, and can adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The recent global economic crisis has caused, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period, each of which may materially adversely affect our customers’ access to capital. A limit on our customers’ access to capital could inhibit their willingness or ability to purchase our products or affect their ability to pay for products that they have already purchased from us. In addition, downturns in our customers’ industries, even during periods of strong general economic conditions, could adversely affect our sales, profitability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 The Company’s success is partly dependent upon our ability to develop superior proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets. Our business operations are dependent to a certain degree upon proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets developed by the Company. In many cases, the Company’s technology and know-how, or equivalent processes or technology are available to or practiced by our competitors, customers and others. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary processes and technologies, or that our trade secrets will not lose their proprietary status. The development or acquisition by others of equivalent or superior information, processes or technologies or our failure to maintain the trade secret status of our proprietary technology know-how and trade secrets could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The failure to properly manage inventories could expose the Company to material financial losses. The Company’s product sales business, including the Company’s concentrate manufacturing operations, requires the Company to buy inventories of supplies and products and to manage the risk of ownership of commodity inventories having fluctuating market values. The maintenance of excessive inventories in our businesses could expose us to losses from drops in market prices for our products, while maintenance of insufficient inventories may result in lost sales to the Company. There are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability and currency restrictions. Approximately 68% of our fiscal year 2009 revenues were derived from operations outside the United States. Our foreign operations include significant operations in our European, Asia Pacific, and Brazilian business segments. We anticipate continuing to seek expansion of our international operations. Our international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties normally associated with international operations, including among others, risks of government policies regarding private property, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and currency fluctuations and other restrictions arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty over areas in which the Company conducts business that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds, result in the deprivation of contract rights, result in civil disturbance or result in other forms of conflict. Our international operations are subject to political and economic risks of developing countries, and special risks associated with doing business in corrupt environments. The majority of our international business is currently in regions such as Western Europe, where the risk level and extent of established legal systems is similar to that in the United States. We also conduct business in developing countries, and we are focusing on increasing our sales and establishing new production facilities in regions such as South America, Southeast Asia, India and the Middle East, which have less developed legal systems, financial markets, and business and political environments than the United States, and therefore present greater political, economic and operational risks. We emphasize legal compliance and have implemented policies, procedures and certain ongoing training of employees with regard to business ethics and many key legal requirements, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), which makes it illegal for us to give anything of value to foreign officials in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantages; however, there can be no assurance that our employees will adhere to our code of business ethics, other Company policies, the FCPA or other legal requirements. If we fail to enforce our policies and procedures properly or maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that employees have or may have violated the FCPA or other laws or regulations, we will be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, and if violations are found or suspected could face civil and criminal penalties, and significant costs for investigations, litigation, fees, settlements and judgments, which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. The results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, including the Euro, the British Pound, the New Zealand Dollar, Brazilian Real, the Malaysian Ringgit and the Australian Dollar. Approximately 68% of our fiscal year 2009 revenues were derived from sales outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses into U.S. Dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Thus, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. Dollar against other currencies in which our 9 operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our financial results, and there can be no assurance that fluctuation in foreign currency exchanges rates will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our industry could materially adversely impact our operations. We rely primarily on the revenues generated in the polymer processing industry. Due to our lack of asset diversification, a significant adverse development in this industry could trigger or result in impairment charges and would likely have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows than if it maintained more diverse assets. Our success depends on attracting and maintaining key personnel; the failure to do so could disrupt our business operations. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on the efforts, technical expertise and continued employment of key personnel and members of our management team. If we are unable to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel or a significant number of our existing key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present role without adequate replacements, our business operations could be adversely affected. An impairment of goodwill could reduce our earnings. In fiscal year 2009, we recognized a goodwill impairment of $3.5 million in our Asia Pacific reporting unit. The goodwill remaining on our balance sheet at September 30, 2009 is $4.5 million, which is entirely recorded in our Bayshore Industrial reporting unit. If our remaining goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to our earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. Refer to Note 4 – “Goodwill” in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in tax laws could have an adverse impact on our earnings. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or other domestic or foreign governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional compliance costs and tax liabilities which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Operational risks, and resulting uninsured claims and litigation, could adversely affect the Company’s business. Our operations involve many operational and contractual risks, which, even through a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation, may not be overcome. Our operational risks include, without limitation, the risk of losses, injuries and damages, caused by equipment failures, work-related accidents, natural disasters such as fires, floods and hurricanes, unanticipated operational failures, unanticipated environmental pollution or contamination and defects or contamination in our products or services. The occurrence of such operational risks could result in plant shutdowns for extended time periods, serious personal injuries, significant property and environmental damage, uninsured financial losses and damages suffered by the Company, customer claims for breach of contract or warranty, governmental claims and other third party claims. Except for warranties implied by law, we generally make only limited warranties with regard to the products and services we provide, and attempts to contractually disclaim or limit its liability in the case of breach of warranty or other contractual obligation; however, we have exposure to claims for breach of express and implied warranties, and other breach of contract claims, in the event that products are not manufactured to specifications. Our activities as a vendor of specialty or custom products may result in liability for defective or unfit products. In some jurisdictions, certain liability cannot be disclaimed or contractually limited for products that are defective or are found not to be fit for purpose. 10 If we are found to have liability for, or are even simply required to legally defend, claims for breach of warranty, breach of contract, negligence, defective products or damages to third parties resulting from the occurrence of operational risks, our financial exposure could be significant, and our reputation could be adversely affected. We have insurance coverage against many operational risks and potential liability to customers and third parties, including product liability and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent insurance is available and reasonably affordable; however, no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against costs, expenses and liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. Our insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions, and contains certain coverage exclusions. In most cases, our insurance does not cover some or all elements of damages based on allegations that we are liable under legal theories of breach of contract or warranty, fraud or deceptive trade practices. In some cases we obtain agreements from customers acknowledging our disclaimer of warranties and limiting our liability. Nevertheless, insurance and customer agreements do not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by uninsured operational risks, contractual risks and customer and third party claims and litigation. See Item 3. – “Legal Proceedings.” We could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. If existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our business operations. Our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. Our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in, but are not limited to, substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. Such liabilities could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. These liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of theories including negligence, strict liability, breach of contract, or as a result of our contractual agreement or implied-in-law obligation to indemnify customers or others in the ordinary course of business. We may not have adequate insurance coverage for potential liabilities, including, without limitation, environmental liabilities. While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits and policy exclusions. In addition, certain policies specifically exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by insurance; our insurance carriers may become insolvent and not be able to meet their obligations under the policies, and the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Future environmental, personal injury, and other claims relating to the Company’s former Oilfield Services business could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. In 2002, we completed the sale of substantially all of our oilfield services (“Oilfield Services”) business to National Oilwell Varco, Inc., formerly Varco International, Inc. (“NOV”). In 2003, we sold our remaining Oilfield Services business to Permian Enterprises, Ltd. (“Permian”). NOV and Permian purchased the assets and business of our former Oilfield Services business, but acquired limited responsibility for liabilities of our former Oilfield Services business relating to events occurring prior to the respective closings of the referenced divestitures (collectively the “Closings”). Among the pre-closing liabilities retained by us are potential environmental claims including, without limitation, “Superfund” claims relating to off-site disposal of hazardous materials prior to the Closings, potential claims by employees, contractors, and others for occupational injuries sustained by such individuals prior to the 11 Closings, as well as other types of claims. There are currently no Superfund claims or other environmental claims pending against us that are expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations, except as described under the heading “Environmental Remediation” in Item 3. – “Legal Proceedings.” There are currently no silicosis or other occupational injury claims pending that are expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. However, since the late 1990’s we have settled claims of approximately 35 former employees of the Company’s former Oilfield Services business who allegedly sustained personal injuries or died as a result of occupational exposure to silica. In the past we have been a party to and settled material environmental and occupational injury (silicosis) claims related to our former Oilfield Services business. There can be no assurance that in the future there will not be new environmental claims, occupational injury claims, or other claims, including claims resulting from activities or conditions involving our former Oilfield Services business and occurring prior to the sale of the Oilfield Services business, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller and have more limited resources than some of our competitors and potential competitors. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial or other resources than we have. Larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations or rising costs of raw materials more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. The inability of the Company to effectively compete in its markets would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"), or other accounting or financial reporting standards, the ultimate adoption of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although not yet required, we could be required to adopt IFRS or other accounting or financial reporting standards different than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America currently applicable to our accounting and financial reporting. The implementation and adoption of new standards could favorably or unfavorably impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Potential disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect the Company, including by adversely affecting the availability and cost of short-term funds for our liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We rely on our current credit facilities to fund short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. We also use letters of credit issued under its revolving credit facilities to support our insurance policies and supplier purchases in certain business units. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facilities. Our access to funds under our credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Our banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if such banks experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect the Company’s access to liquidity needed in its businesses. Any disruption could require the Company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, as well as reducing or eliminating future share repurchases, dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. Many of the Company’s customers and suppliers also have exposure to risks that their businesses are adversely affected by the worldwide financial crisis and resulting potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets. In the event that any of the Company’s significant customers or suppliers, or a significant number of smaller customers and suppliers, are adversely affected by these risks, the Company may face disruptions in supply, significant reductions in demand for its products and services, inability of customers to pay invoices when due, and other adverse effects that could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 12 Failure to complete the merger or delays in completing the merger with A. Schulman, Inc. could negatively impact our stock price, future business and operation, and financial results. On December 2, 2009, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with A. Schulman, Inc. Completion of the proposed merger is subject to various conditions, including, among others, approval by our shareholders and the termination or expiration of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended. If these or other conditions are not satisfied, we may not be able to complete the merger, and such failure may have adverse consequences. If the merger is not completed, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: · because the current price of our common stock may reflect a market premium based on the assumption that we will complete the merger, a failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in the price of our common stock; and · the pending merger, its effects and related matters may distract our employees from day-to-day operations and require substantial commitments of time and resources, and may also impair our relations with our employees, customers, suppliers and other constituencies due to uncertainty about the future following the completion of the merger; and · in specified circumstances, if the merger is not completed, we may be required to pay A. Schulman, Inc. either a termination fee of $6.8 million or up to $1.0 million in expense reimbursement instead of the termination fee; and · we will not realize the benefits expected from being part of a larger company; and · some costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisor fees, must be paid even if the merger is not completed. While the merger is pending we may be subject to restrictions on the conduct of our business. The merger agreement restricts us from taking specified actions without A. Schulman, Inc’s. approval. These restrictions could prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger and could otherwise have a material adverse impact on our Company. In addition, while the merger agreement is in effect, subject to certain limited exceptions, we are prohibited from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or entering into any extraordinary transactions, such as a merger, sale of assets or other business combination, with any third party. As a result of these limitations, we could lose opportunities to enter into an alternative transaction which could be more favorable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 