Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s indebtedness subjects it to restrictive covenants and may limit its ability to borrow additional funds and efficiently operate the business. The Company’s domestic credit facility (“Credit Facility”) in place as of October 27, 2006 contains a number of covenants including, among others, limitations on the ability of the Company and its restricted U.S. subsidiaries to (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) pay dividends or redeem any common stock, (iii) incur liens or other encumbrances on their assets, (iv) enter into transactions with affiliates, (v) merge with or into any other entity or (vi) sell any of their assets. In addition, any “change of control” of the Company or its restricted subsidiaries will constitute a default under the Credit Facility. - “Change of control,” as defined in the credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) establishing the Credit Facility, is summarized as follows: (i) the acquisition of, or, if earlier, the shareholder or director approval of the acquisition of, ownership or voting control, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any person, entity or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC under the 1934 Act, as then in effect), of shares representing more than 50% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding common stock of the Company; (ii) the occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Company by individuals who were neither (A) nominated by the Company’s board of directors nor (B) appointed by directors so nominated; (iii) the occurrence of a change in control, or other similar provision, under or with respect to any “Material Indebtedness Agreement” (as defined in the Credit Agreement); or (iv) the failure of the Company to own directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding equity interests of the Company’s Bayshore Industrial L.P. and ICO Polymers North America, Inc. subsidiaries. Changes in the cost and availability of polymers could adversely affect the Company. Polymers (i.e., resins) are a key ingredient of the Company’s products, and changes in the cost and availability of resins (generally produced by the major chemical companies) are outside of the Company’s control. If resin costs increase, whether because of higher oil and gas prices or because of lower supplies, the Company may be forced to increase the prices at which it sells its products to our customers. An increase in our prices may result in lower customer demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Additionally, higher resin prices will lead to higher working capital requirements which could result in higher debt and associated interest expense. On the other hand, a perception that resin costs will be declining in the near future may, in the short term, result in a decrease in customer demand for our products as customers wait for lower resin prices to be reflected in the price of our products, which could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Changes in economic activity could adversely affect the Company. The Company’s business cycles are affected by changes in the level of economic activity in the various regions in which the Company operates. The Company’s business cycles are generally volatile and relatively unpredictable. In addition, the Company is affected by cycles in the petroleum and oil and gas industries. The length of these business cycles is outside of the Company’s control, and can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. 7 Table of Contents The Company’s success is partly dependent upon the Company’s ability to develop superior proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets. The operations of the Company’s business are dependent to a certain degree upon proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets developed by the Company. In many cases, these or equivalent processes or technologies are available to the Company’s competitors, customers and others. In addition, there can be no assurance that such persons will not develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary processes and technologies, or that the Company’s trade secrets will not lose their proprietary status. The availability to, or development by others of equivalent or superior information, processes or technologies, or the failure to maintain the trade secret status of the Company’s proprietary technologies and information, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The failure to properly manage inventories could expose the Company to material financial losses. The Company’s product sales business, including the Company’s concentrate manufacturing operations, requires the Company to buy inventories of supplies and products and to manage the risk of ownership of commodity inventories having fluctuating market values. The maintenance of excessive inventories in these businesses could expose the Company to losses from drops in market prices for its products, while maintenance of insufficient inventories may result in lost sales to the Company. International events may hurt the Company’s operations. A majority of the Company’s current operations is conducted in international markets, particularly the Company’s ICO Europe, ICO Brazil, and ICO Courtenay- Australasia business segments. The Company expects to continue to seek to expand its international operations, primarily through internal growth. The Company’s international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties normally associated with international operations, including among others, risks of government policies regarding private property, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and currency fluctuations and other restrictions arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty over areas in which the Company conducts business that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights, and, possibly, civil disturbance or other forms of conflict. Losses from the factors above could be material in those countries where the Company now has or may in the future have a concentration of assets. Due to the Company’s lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in its industry could materially adversely impact the Company’s operations. The Company relies primarily on the revenues generated in the polymer processing industry. Due to its lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in this industry would likely have a significantly greater impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if it maintained more diverse assets. The Company’s success depends on attracting and maintaining key personnel; the failure to do so could disrupt the Company’s business operations. The Company’s success depends upon our ability to retain and attract experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. The Company’s results of operations depend to a large extent on the efforts, technical expertise and continued employment of key personnel and members of our management team. If we are unable to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel or a significant number of our existing key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present role without adequate replacements, our business operations could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Goodwill impairment could occur in the future. If our goodwill becomes impaired the Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. The Company is prohibited from paying dividends on its Common Stock or redeeming or repurchasing any of its Common Stock until dividends in arrears on the Preferred Stock are paid. As of September 30, 2006, the Company owed an aggregate of $8.2 million of dividends in arrears to the holders of the Company’s $6.75 Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stock”). Subsequent to September 30, 2006, the Company repurchased 84.8% of the outstanding Preferred Stock, thereby reducing the dividends in arrears to $1.2 million. Such undeclared or unpaid Preferred Stock dividends will need to be declared and paid before the Company can pay a dividend on its Common Stock or redeem or repurchase any of its common stock. Payment of any dividends in arrears will depend on the financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements of the Company, as well as other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors, and there can be no assurance that the Board of Directors will declare dividends on the Preferred Stock in the future. The Company may have additional tax liabilities. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Although the Company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material adverse effect on the Company’s income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. Operational risks such as personal injury, property damages, pollution and environmental damages could adversely affect the Company’s business. The operations of the Company involve many risks, which, even through a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation, may not be overcome. These risks include equipment or product failures or work related accidents which could also result in personal injury, property damages, pollution and other environmental risks. The Company may not be fully insured against possible losses pursuant to such risks. Such losses could have a material adverse impact on the Company. In addition, from time to time, the Company is involved in various litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of its business and is currently involved in numerous legal proceedings in connection with its operations and those of its acquired and disposed of companies. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur substantial liability as a result of these or other proceedings. The Company is subject to numerous and changing local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations concerning the use, storage, treatment, disposal and general handling of hazardous materials, some of which may be considered to be hazardous wastes, and restricting releases of pollutants and contaminants into the environment. These laws and regulations may require the Company to obtain and maintain certain permits and other authorizations mandating procedures under which the Company will operate and restricting emissions. Many of these laws and regulations provide for strict joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up contamination resulting from releases of regulated materials into the environment. Violations of mandatory procedures under operating permits may result in fines, remedial actions or, in more serious instances, shutdowns or revocation of permits or authorizations. There can be no assurance that a review of the Company’s past, present or future operations by courts or federal, state, local or foreign regulatory authorities will not result in determinations that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the revocation of any of the Company’s material operating permits, the denial of any material permit application or the failure to renew any material interim permit could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company cannot predict what environmental laws and regulations will be enacted or adopted in the future or how such future law or regulation will be administered or interpreted. To date, the Company has incurred compliance and clean-up costs in connection with environmental laws and regulations and there can be no assurance as to future costs. In particular, compliance with more stringent environmental laws and regulations, more vigorous enforcement policies, or stricter interpretations of current laws and regulations, or the occurrence of an industrial accident, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 9 Table of Contents Future environmental, personal injury, and other claims relating to the Company’s former Oilfield Services business could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. In 2002, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the Company’s oilfield services (“Oilfield Services”) business to National Oilwell Varco, Inc., formerly Varco International, Inc. (“NOV”). In 2003, the Company sold its remaining Oilfield Services business to Permian Enterprises, Ltd. (“Permian”). NOV and Permian purchased the assets and business of the Company’s Oilfield Services business, but only acquired limited responsibility for liabilities of the Company’s former Oilfield Services business relating to events occurring prior to the closing of the referenced divestitures. Among the pre-closing liabilities retained by the Company are potential environmental claims including, without limitation, Superfund claims relating to off-site disposal of hazardous materials prior to the Closing, potential claims by employees, contractors, and others for occupational injuries, as well as other types of claims. There are currently no Superfund claims or other environmental claims pending against the Company that are expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, except as described under the heading “Environmental Claims” in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below. There are currently no silicosis or other occupational injury claims pending that are expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. However, since the late 1990’s the Company has settled claims of approximately thirty-five former employees of the Company’s former Oilfield Services business who allegedly sustained personal injuries and/death as a result of occupational exposure to silica, and in the past the Company has been a party to and settled other environmental and occupational injury claims related to the Company’s former Oilfield Services business. There can be no assurance that in the future there will not be new environmental claims, occupational injury claims, or other claims, including resulting from activities or conditions involving the Company’s former Oilfield Services business and occurring prior to the sale of the Oilfield Services business, having a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating history than some of our competitors. The industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive. Some competitors or potential competitors of the Company have substantially greater financial or other resources than the Company. Larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations or rising costs of raw materials more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. The inability of the Company to effectively compete in its markets would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Certain litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. The Company is party to various legal proceedings. There can be no assurance that adverse results in such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 Table of Contents Item 