Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to other information contained or incorporated by reference herein. Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our indebtedness subjects our business to restrictive covenants and may limit our ability to borrow additional funds and efficiently operate the business. Our credit agreement, as amended (the “Credit Agreement”), with KeyBank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association establishing a $45.0 million domestic credit facility contains financial covenants including minimum tangible net worth, leverage ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio and a required level of profitability. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a number of limitations on the ability of the Company and its restricted U.S. subsidiaries to (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) pay dividends or redeem any Common Stock, (iii) incur liens or other encumbrances on their assets, (iv) enter into transactions with affiliates, (v) merge with or into any other entity or (vi) sell any of their assets. In addition, any “Change of Control” of the Company or its restricted U.S. subsidiaries will constitute a default under the Credit Agreement. “Change of Control,” as defined in the Credit Agreement, is summarized as follows: (i) the acquisition of, or, if earlier, the shareholder or director approval of the acquisition of, ownership or voting control, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any person, entity, or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as then in effect), of shares representing more than 50% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Common Stock of the Company; (ii) the occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Company by individuals who were neither (A) nominated by the Company’s board of directors nor (B) appointed by directors so nominated; (iii) the occurrence of a change in control, or other similar provision, under or with respect to any “Material Indebtedness Agreement” (as defined in the Credit Agreement); or (iv) the failure of the Company to own directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding equity interests of the Company’s Bayshore Industrial L.P. and ICO Polymers North America, Inc. subsidiaries. Changes in the cost and availability of polymers could adversely affect the Company. Polymers (i.e., resins) are a key ingredient of our products, and changes in the cost and availability of resins (generally produced by the major chemical companies) are outside of our control. If resin costs increase, whether because of higher oil and gas prices or because of lower supplies, we may be forced to increase the prices at which we sell our products to our customers. An increase in our prices may result in lower customer demand for our products, thereby adversely affecting our business. Additionally, higher resin prices will lead to higher working capital requirements which could result in higher debt and associated interest expense. On the other hand, a perception that resin costs will be declining in the near future may, in the short term, result in a decrease in customer demand for our products as customers wait for lower resin prices to be reflected in the price of our products, which could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. Changes in economic activity could adversely affect us. Our business cycles are affected by changes in the level of economic activity in the various regions in which we operate. Our business cycles are generally volatile and relatively unpredictable. In addition, we are affected by cycles in the petroleum and oil and gas industries. The length of these business cycles is outside of the Company’s control, and can adversely effect our results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s success is partly dependent upon our ability to develop superior proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets. Our business operations are dependent to a certain degree upon proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets developed by the Company. In many cases, these or equivalent processes or technologies are available to our competitors, customers and others. In addition, there can be no assurance that such persons will not develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary processes and technologies, or that our trade secrets will not lose their proprietary status. The availability to, or development by others, of equivalent or superior information, processes or technologies, or the failure to maintain the trade secret status of our proprietary technologies and information, could have a material adverse affect on our business operations. 7 Table of Contents The failure to properly manage inventories could expose the Company to material financial losses. The Company’s product sales business, including the Company’s concentrate manufacturing operations, requires the Company to buy inventories of supplies and products and to manage the risk of ownership of commodity inventories having fluctuating market values. The maintenance of excessive inventories in these businesses could expose us to losses from drops in market prices for our products, while maintenance of insufficient inventories may result in lost sales to the Company. There are risks associated with our presence in international markets, including political or economic instability and currency restrictions. Approximately 64% of our revenues in fiscal year 2007 were derived from operations outside the United States. Our foreign operations include significant operations in our European, Asia Pacific, and Brazilian business segments. We expect to continue to seek to expand our international operations. Our international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties normally associated with international operations, including among others, risks of government policies regarding private property, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions and currency fluctuations; and other restrictions arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty over areas in which the Company conducts business that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds, result in the deprivation of contract rights, result in civil disturbance, or result in other forms of conflict. The results of our operations are subject to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We earn revenues, pay expenses and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, the British Pound, the New Zealand Dollar, Brazilian Real, Malaysian Ringgit, Arab Emirates Dirham and the Australian Dollar. Approximately 64% of our fiscal year 2007 revenue was derived from sales outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Thus, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in which our operations are conducted will affect our revenues and operating income. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. We cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates would not affect our financial results. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our industry could materially adversely impact our operations. The Company relies primarily on the revenues generated in the polymer processing industry. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in this industry would likely have a significantly greater impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if it maintained more diverse assets. The Company’s success depends on attracting and maintaining key personnel; the failure to do so could disrupt the Company’s business operations. The Company’s success depends upon our ability to retain and attract experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. The Company’s results of operations depend to a large extent on the efforts, technical expertise and continued employment of key personnel and members of our management team. If we are unable to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable personnel or a significant number of our existing key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present role without adequate replacements, our business operations could be adversely affected. An impairment of goodwill could reduce our earnings. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to our earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. Changes in tax laws could have an adverse impact on our earnings. The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Changes to tax laws, rules, and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or other domestic or foreign governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional compliance costs and tax liabilities which could have an adverse impact on our earnings. 8 Table of Contents Operational risks and uninsured claims and litigation could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s operations involve many risks, which, even through a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation, may not be overcome. These operational risks include, without limitation, the risks of equipment failures, work-related accidents, and natural disasters such as fires, floods, and hurricanes, as well as the risk of unanticipated failures, defects, or contamination in the Company’s products or services resulting in product liability or significant customer or third party claims. The occurrence of such operational risks could in turn result in plant shutdowns for extended time periods, serious personal injuries, significant property damage, environmental damage, customer claims for breach of contract or warranty, and third party claims. We have insurance coverage against many operational risks, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available and affordable, however, no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. This insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. In most cases, the insurance does not cover damages from breach of contract by us or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers that limit our liability. Insurance and customer agreements do not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. We could be adversely affected if we fail to comply with any of the numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies that govern environmental protection, zoning and other matters applicable to our businesses. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies governing environmental protection, zoning and other matters. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional changes in the future. If existing regulatory requirements change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. We cannot assure you that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Under these circumstances, we might be required to reduce or cease operations or conduct site remediation or other corrective action which could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Our businesses expose us to potential environmental liability. Our businesses expose us to the risk that harmful substances may escape into the environment, which could result in personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Our current and past activities, as well as the activities of our former divisions and subsidiaries, could result in, but not limited to, substantial environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. Such liabilities could include the costs of cleanup of contaminated sites and site closure obligations. These liabilities could also be imposed on the basis of theories including negligence, strict liability, breach of contract, or as a result of our contractual agreement to indemnify customers or others in the normal course of business. We may not have adequate insurance for potential environmental liabilities. While we maintain liability insurance, this insurance is subject to coverage limits. In addition, certain policies do not provide coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. We face the following risks with respect to our insurance coverage: we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by insurance; our insurance carriers may not be able to meet their obligations under the policies; or the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. Future environmental, personal injury, and other claims relating to the Company’s former Oilfield Services business could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. In 2002, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the Company’s oilfield services (“Oilfield Services”) business to National Oilwell Varco, Inc., formerly Varco International, Inc. (“NOV”). In 2003, the Company sold its remaining Oilfield Services business to Permian Enterprises, Ltd. (“Permian”). NOV and Permian purchased the assets and business of the Company’s former Oilfield Services business, but acquired limited responsibility for liabilities of the Company’s former Oilfield Services business relating to events occurring prior to the respective closings of the referenced divestitures (collectively “Closings”). Among the pre-closing liabilities retained by the Company are potential environmental claims including, without limitation, “Superfund” claims relating to off-site disposal of hazardous materials prior to the Closings, potential claims by employees, contractors, and others for occupational injuries sustained by such individuals prior to the Closings, as well as other types of claims. There are currently no Superfund claims or other environmental claims pending against the Company that are expected to have a material adverse effect on 9 Table of Contents the Company’s business, except as described under the heading “Environmental Remediation” in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” There are currently no silicosis or other occupational injury claims pending that are expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. However, since the late 1990’s the Company has settled claims of approximately 35 former employees of the Company’s former Oilfield Services business who allegedly sustained personal injuries or died as a result of occupational exposure to silica. In the past the Company has been a party to and settled material environmental and occupational injury (silicosis) claims related to the Company’s former Oilfield Services business. There can be no assurance that in the future there will not be new environmental claims, occupational injury claims, or other claims, including claims resulting from activities or conditions involving the Company’s former Oilfield Services business and occurring prior to the sale of the Oilfield Services business, having a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating history than some of our competitors and potential competitors. The industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive. Some competitors or potential competitors of the Company have substantially greater financial or other resources than the Company. Larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations or rising costs of raw materials more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. The inability of the Company to effectively compete in its markets would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Certain litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. The Company is party to various legal proceedings. There can be no assurance that adverse results in such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 Table of Contents Item 