Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of that term in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Additional written or oral forward-looking statements may be made by us from time to time, in filings with the Securities Exchange Commission or otherwise. Statements contained in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to these safe harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements may include projections of revenue, income or loss and capital expenditures; statements regarding future operations, financing needs, compliance with financial covenants in loan agreements, plans for acquisition or sale of assets or businesses and consolidation of operations of newly acquired businesses, and plans relating to products or services; assessments of materiality; and predictions of future events and the effects of pending and possible litigation, as well as assumptions relating to these statements. In addition, when we use the words "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," and "intends," and "plans," and variations thereof and similar expressions, we intend to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified based on current expectations. Consequently, future events and actual results could differ materially from those set forth in, contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Statements in this report, particularly in "Item 1. Business", "Item 3. Legal Proceedings", the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," describe certain factors that could contribute to or cause such differences. Other factors that could contribute to or cause such differences include unanticipated developments in any one or more of the following areas: • the ability, and the ability of certain of our vendors, to obtain and maintain approvals from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for new products and other regulatory matters, the ability to qualify additional vendors for significant raw material and the ability to comply with regulations regarding the manufacturing of products, including the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices regulations and other matters discussed below under “Government Regulation;” • the receptivity of consumers to generic drugs, including the public’s reaction to actions of governmental authorities, insurance companies and other groups to encourage or discourage the use of generic pharmaceutical products; • the rate of our new product introductions and the receptivity of our customers to such products; • competition, including pressures which may require us to reduce the prices such as consolidation of the drug distribution network; • the ability to develop and maintain collaborative relationships with others, including other pharmaceutical companies; • the number and nature of our customers and their product orders, including material changes in orders from the most significant customers and the relative mix of sales to retailers and sales to other pharmaceutical companies; • the ability of our vendors, including foreign vendors, to continue to supply our needs, especially with respect to our key products such as ibuprofen and psyllium; • our borrowing costs, and the ability to generate cash flow to pay interest and scheduled amortization payments as we have the ability to refinance such indebtedness or to sell assets when it comes due; • relations with our controlling shareholder, including its continuing willingness to provide financing and other resources; • the ability to have our shares quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or another quotation system, stock exchange or stock market; • the continued involvement of our key personnel or the ability to obtain suitable replacement personnel; • the level of sales to our key customers; • actions by our competitors; • fluctuations in the price and availability of raw materials; • the dependence on discreet manufacturing facilities; • the ability to protect our proprietary manufacturing technology; • our dependence on a limited number of suppliers; • an adverse outcome in litigation, claims and other actions against us including product liability risks and the ability to continue to obtain insurance coverage; • technological changes and introductions of new competing products; and • changes in market demand, productivity, weather, and market and economic conditions in the areas in which we operate and market our products or from which we source the raw materials, particularly ibuprofen, psyllium and naproxen sodium, as well as other risk factors which may be detailed from time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements contained in this report, which is accurate only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unexpected events. Introduction Pharmaceutical Formulations, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is a publicly-traded private label manufacturer and distributor of nonprescription (sometimes called "over-the-counter" or "OTC") solid dose pharmaceutical products in the United States and powdered, dietary natural fiber supplements which are sold in the United States and several foreign countries. Such products, which are made in tablet, caplet, capsule or powdered form, are primarily sold under the customers' store brands or other private labels, manufactured under contract for national brand pharmaceutical companies or sold in bulk to others who repackage them for sale to small, typically independent, retailers and to other manufacturers who do not have government approval to manufacture certain formulas such as ibuprofen. We also sell generic products under our own brand names, including Konsyl®, Health+Cross® and Health Pharm®. The latter two brand names account for less than 1% of our total revenues. We believe that the therapeutic benefits of our products are comparable to those of equivalent national brand name products because the chemical compositions of the active ingredients of the brand name products on which the products are patterned are identical to those of the products. We are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the Drug Enforcement Agency (“DEA”). Our largest retail customers include Target, Dollar General Stores, Costco Wholesale, CVS Corp., and BJ’s Wholesale Club. Acquisition of Konsyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc. On May 15, 2003, we completed the acquisition of the stock of Konsyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of Fort Worth, Texas. Konsyl is a manufacturer and distributor of powdered, dietary natural fiber supplements. Its products are manufactured at its plant in Easton, Maryland and are sold, both domestically and internationally, to pharmaceutical wholesalers, drugstore chains, mass merchandisers, grocery store chains and grocery distributors. Products are sold under both the “Konsyl®” brand name and various private labels. The largest customers for colon health products include Wal-Mart, Walgreens, AmeriSource and McKesson. The consideration for the acquisition consisted of $6,502,000 of cash including transaction costs, and a $2,500,000 seller note. In addition, as part of the purchase price, we issued warrants to purchase 1.2 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $.204 per share, valued at $244,000. The warrants are exercisable until April 15, 2010. The transaction was financed by a combination of asset-based and term loan financing aggregating $3,700,000 from our existing lender, CIT Business Credit, as well as a loan of $1,627,000 from ICC Industries Inc., (“ICC”), the holder of approximately 86.5% of our common stock, $595,000 of equipment financing facilitated by ICC, a five year note to the former stockholder of Konsyl in the amount of $2,500,000, which was guaranteed by ICC, Konsyl’s own cash of $350,000 and a cash payment of $230,000 (including transaction costs). In connection with the acquisition of Konsyl, we entered into a consultancy agreement with Frank X. Buhler, the former majority stockholder of Konsyl and a current director of the Company, calling for payment for one year at $5,000 per month. This agreement ended in May 2004. In addition, Mr. Buhler was elected to our Board of Directors at the 2003 annual meeting of stockholders. Konsyl also entered into a five-year lease with ANDA Investments Ltd., a company partially owned by Mr. Buhler, regarding its manufacturing facility in Maryland. Annual rent is $200,000, payable quarterly. In addition, Konsyl has an option to purchase the facility for $2,250,000. This option expires on May 14, 2006. Change in Fiscal Year During December 2002, we changed our fiscal year-end from the 52-53 week period which ends on the Saturday closest to June 30 to the 52-53 week period which ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. The just-completed 2004 fiscal year was the 52 week period which ended January 1, 2005. The 2003 fiscal year was the 53 week period which ended January 3, 2004. The prior fiscal period consisted of the six-month transition period from June 30, 2002 to December 28, 2002 and is sometimes referred to as transition 2002. The 2002 fiscal year consisted of the 52 week period which ended June 29, 2002. Konsyl’s fiscal year ends on December 31. Certain Relationships with ICC ICC is our largest stockholder, currently holding 74,488,835 shares (86.5%) of our outstanding stock. Since we first entered into a relationship with ICC in 1991, we have engaged in various transactions with ICC. Tax Sharing Agreement - Since December 21 2001, when ICC’s ownership of our common stock reached 87%, we have filed a consolidated Federal income tax return with ICC, and will continue to do so as long as ICC continues to own more than 80% of our common stock. As a result, we entered into a tax sharing agreement whereby we will be credited for the cash savings generated by ICC’s utilization of the current tax losses or utilization of tax loss carryforwards. In addition, the agreement provides for an allocation of the group's tax liability based upon the ratio that each member's contribution of the taxable income bears to the consolidated taxable income of the group. Such compensation shall be reflected as an offset against amounts we owe to ICC. Purchase of Raw Materials - We purchased $6,638,000 of raw materials from ICC in fiscal 2004, $7,511,000 in fiscal 2003, $3,508,000 in transition 2002, and $1,438,000 in fiscal 2002. We have purchased from ICC, and will likely in the future continue to purchase from ICC, to use their buying power to obtain more favorable price treatment. These purchases have been at ICC’s cost plus a small markup; we believe that the price we pay ICC is less than what we would have to pay if we purchased the items directly from other vendors. We also purchased raw materials from a major raw material supplier with respect to which starting in 2004 ICC guaranteed up to $1.0 million of our obligations (this guarantee was increased to $1.5 million in April 2005) which guaranty expires upon the earlier of written notice by ICC or April 6, 2006. Stockholder Loans - Effective December 31, 2004, we modified our term loan and security agreement with ICC to extend the final due date for the loan from January 31, 2005 to January 31, 2006. The loan principal under this agreement was $22,654,000 as of January 1, 2005. Principal payments are due commencing in January 2005 at $300,000 per month and in increasing amounts thereafter of $325,000, $350,000 or $375,000 per month with a final payment of $18,604,000 due in January 2006. Interest is payable monthly at 1% above the prime rate (6.75% at January 1, 2005). The loan is secured by a secondary security interest in all of our assets. This agreement also includes cross default provisions with other loans. On April 11, 2005 the Company obtained a waiver of current defaults. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. On May 15, 2003, in connection with the acquisition of Konsyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc., we borrowed $500,000 from ICC. Principal payments to ICC began on July 1, 2003 at $10,000 per month with a final payment of $320,000 due in January 2005. Effective January 31, 2005, such loan repayment obligation was extended until January 31, 2006. The loan stipulates payments of $10,000 per month with a final payment of $190,000 due in January 2006. Interest is payable monthly at 4.5% per annum. Support - ICC has committed to provide us with the necessary financing to support our operations through March 31, 2006. (See discussion in the section, “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.) As of February 28, 2005, we owed ICC an aggregate of $38,700,000, including loans of $22,484,000 and accounts payable of $16,262,362. Products Currently, we market more than 95 different types of generic OTC products (including different dosage strengths of the same chemical composition). These products include analgesics (such as ibuprofen, acetaminophen and naproxen sodium), cough-cold preparations, sinus/allergy products and gastrointestinal relief products and fiber colon health products. Sales of ibuprofen accounted for 23% in fiscal 2004, 28% in fiscal 2003, 28% in transition 2002 and 21% in fiscal 2002 of our gross revenues. Generic pharmaceutical products are drugs which are sold under chemical names rather than brand names and possess chemical compositions (and, we believe, therapeutic benefits), equivalent to the brand name drugs on which they are patterned. OTC drugs are drugs which can be obtained without a physician's prescription. Generic drug products are subject to the same governmental standards for safety and efficacy (effectiveness) as their brand name equivalents and are typically sold at prices substantially below the brand name drug. We manufacture generic OTC products which we believe are chemically and therapeutically equivalent to such brand name products as Advil®, Aleve®, Anacin®, Tylenol®, Bufferin®, Ecotrin®, Motrin®, Excedrin®, Sominex®, Sudafed®, Comtrex®, Sinutab®, Dramamine®, Actifed®, Benadryl®, Allerest®, Tagament®, Metamucil®, and Citracel,® among other products.1 _______________ 1 Such brand names, and other brand names mentioned in this report, are registered marks of companies unrelated to PFI, unless otherwise noted. The following table sets forth some of the over-the-counter pharmaceutical products marketed by us under store brand or private labels. Each retailer may have its own name for a store brand product. Also, as set forth, where meaningful, are the names of certain of the national brands with which these products compete. ILLUSTRATIVE COMPETING THE PRODUCTS NATIONAL BRANDS ------------ ------------------------ Analgesics: Ibuprofen Advil(R), Motrin(R) Naproxen Sodium Aleve(R) Aspirin Bayer(R) Acetaminophen Tylenol(R) Menstrual Pain Relief Midol(R), Pamprin(R) Cough/Cold Tylenol(R), Sudafed(R) Allergy/Sinus Sudafed(R) Anti-Diarrheal/Acid Blockers/ Tagament HB(R), Mylanta Gelcap(R) Anti-Gas/Antacid Colon Health Correctol(R), Metamucil, Citracel(R) Antifungal Aerosol Tinactin(R) Alert/Sleep Aids/Travel Sickness Vivarin(R), Somnitabs(R), Dramamine(R) Manufacturing Our manufacturing facility in Edison, NJ currently operates two shifts on a five-day per week work schedule and produces approximately one and a half million solid dose tablets/capsules per hour, representing about 60% of capacity as currently configured. The manufacturing equipment operates very efficiently with little or no disruptions during the manufacturing process. The equipment has the ability to manufacture five to six different formulations concurrently at the initial stages of production and about 20 different formulations at various stages throughout the production process. The Konsyl manufacturing facility in Easton, MD operates one shift on a five-day per week work schedule, representing about 70% of capacity as currently configured. The equipment is used for the manufacture of powdered natural dietary supplements. Average lead-time for a new customer from the time of submission of initial artwork to the final design of the packages, ordering of boxes, and delivery of the first orders of product to the customer is usually about one month. Turnaround of orders for existing customers usually ranges anywhere between 24 to 48 hours. In situations where customers need products replenished in a faster time frame, we usually have the staff and available capacity to fulfill this requirement. We employ approximately 386 people in the manufacturing process. We believe that we are in full compliance with all FDA and other federal regulations applicable to the business. See discussion below regarding “Governmental Regulation.” In order to manufacture our products, we acquire raw materials from suppliers located in the United States and abroad. To date, we have had no significant difficulties obtaining the raw materials we need and expect that such raw materials will continue to be readily available in the future. The raw materials are first placed in quarantine so that samples of each lot can be assayed for purity and potency. Incoming materials are also tested to assure that they are free of objectionable microorganisms and that they meet chemical and physical testing requirements. Throughout the manufacturing process, samples are taken by quality assurance inspectors for quality control testing. The raw materials must meet standards established by the United States Pharmacopoeia, the National Formulary and the FDA, as well as by us and our customers. To produce capsules and tablets, we utilize specialized equipment which compresses tablets and fills powder and granules into hard gelatin capsules. At this stage, certain tablets are film- or sugar- coated to achieve an aesthetically appealing tablet. The customer chooses whether its order of generic OTC products will be delivered in bulk containers or in packages. Typically, we assist the customers in developing the size, design and graphics of the folding carton, label and container for the products. The package can be automatically placed into shipping containers of the customer's selection. To produce Konsyl products, we use a variety of equipment including a grain mill for psyllium milling, two blenders, several fill tanks, a bottle unscrambler, a rotary fill head, a bottle capping machine, torquer, in-line check weigher, bottle labeler and cap labeler and three packet filling machines. In response to drug tampering problems affecting the industry generally, we have instituted certain tamper-evident features in the packaging operation. A tamper-evident package is one which readily reveals any violation of the packaging or possible contamination of the product. These include a foil inner-seal which is electronically sealed after the capping operation and, for some customers, a neck band or outer safety seal applied to the bottle and cap as an additional tamper-evident feature. In addition, we manufacture a banded capsule which contains a gelatin band in the center to deter ease of opening and/or closing the capsule product. Although we take steps to make the products tamper-resistant, we believe that no product is "tamper-proof." There can be no assurance that the products will not be tampered with. Any such tampering, even if it occurs in the retail outlets, may have a material adverse effect on the business. See "Insurance." Customers Our customers consist of over 50 retailers (including major national and regional drug, supermarket and mass-merchandise chains), wholesalers, club stores, distributors and brand-name pharmaceutical companies. Sales to the various categories of customers in fiscal 2004, fiscal 2003, transition 2002 and fiscal 2002 by percentage of total sales were as follows: Percentage of Sales --------- ----------- --------------- ---------- Fiscal Fiscal Transition Fiscal Category 2004 2003 2002 2002 --------- ---- ------ ------ ------ Retail drug and supermarket chains and mass merchandisers 64% 82% 83% 79% Brand-name pharmaceutical companies 21% 8% 10% 12% Wholesalers and distributors 15% 10% 7% 9% Virtually all of these sales, except for Konsyl products, consisted of products that our customers sell under their own store brand or other labels. Sales to customers which represented more than 10% of consolidated gross sales in any one or more of fiscal 2004, fiscal 2003, transition 2002 or fiscal 2002 were as follows: Sales ($, in thousands, and percentage of total gross sales) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Fiscal Fiscal Transition Fiscal Customer 2004 2003 2002 2002 - --------- ------ ------ ------ ------ Target $9,070 (12%) $8,289 (11%) $4,010 (12%) $ 152 ( 0%) Dollar General $8,550 (11%) $7,975 (10%) $3,282 ( 9%) $4,283 ( 8%) Costco $4,955 ( 7%) $6,310 ( 8%) $4,054 (12%) $7,234 (14%) Other retail customers include CVS, a drug store chain; BJ’s Wholesale Club, a warehouse discounter; Drug Mart, a drug store chain; Eckerd, a drug store chain; Family Dollar, a discount chain; H.E. Butt, a food chain; Save-A-Lot, a discount chain; Wegmans, a food chain; and Wal-Mart, a mass merchandise chain. Sales and Marketing We had 24 employees in sales and customer service as of January 1, 2005. This staff and several independent brokers sell our products and our marketing services to current and potential customers. There are account teams servicing different geographic areas of the U.S., each headed by a sales director. A team is assigned to each retail customer, to focus on servicing that customer and making recommendations to help build retail store brand business. Governmental Regulation Pharmaceutical companies are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal government, primarily by the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substance Act and other federal statutes and regulations. These regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, pricing, advertising and promotion of the drug products. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental requirements can result in a variety of adverse regulatory actions, including but not limited to the seizure of company products, demand for a product recall, total or partial suspension of manufacturing/production, refusal by the FDA to approve new products and withdrawal of existing product approvals. The FDA requires all new pharmaceutical products to be proven safe and effective before they may be commercially distributed in the United States. In order to prove the safety and efficacy of most new pharmaceutical products, pharmaceutical companies are often required to conduct extensive preclinical (animal) and clinical (human) testing. Such testing is extensively regulated by the FDA. Most prescription drug products obtain FDA marketing approval via either the “new drug application” (NDA) process or the “abbreviated new drug application” (ANDA) process. An NDA is submitted to the FDA in order to prove that a drug product is safe and effective. NDAs and ANDAs typically contain data developed from extensive clinical studies. The filing of an NDA or ANDA with the FDA provides no assurance that the FDA will approve the applicable drug product for marketing. Generic drug products are capable of being approved for marketing by the FDA via the ANDA process. An ANDA is submitted to the FDA in order to demonstrate that a drug product is “bioequivalent” to a drug product that has already been approved by the FDA for safety and effectiveness (i.e., an “innovator’s” drug product). Unlike an NDA, an ANDA is not required to contain evidence of safety and effectiveness. Instead, ANDAs for orally administered dosage forms typically contain “bioavailability” studies to demonstrate “bio-equivalence.” FDA approvals of ANDAs generally take 18 to 24 months to obtain. As with NDAs, the filing of an ANDA with the FDA provides no assurance that the FDA will approve the applicable drug product for marketing. The current regulatory framework that governs generic drug approvals via the ANDA process was enacted as the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act), which amended the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, companies are permitted to conduct studies required for regulatory approval notwithstanding the existence of patent protection relevant to the substance or product under investigation. Thus, “bioavailability” studies for a generic drug product may be conducted regardless of whether the related “innovator” product has patent protection. A company generally may file an ANDA application with the FDA at any point in time. There are certain exceptions, however, such as when an innovator’s drug product was granted five years of “marketing exclusivity” under the Hatch-Waxman Act. In such case, the ANDA application may not be filed with FDA until the five years of marketing exclusivity have expired. Such prohibition on filing does not apply, however, if the period of marketing exclusivity is three years. When an ANDA application is filed, the FDA may immediately review the application regardless of whether the innovator’s product has patent protection or is subject to marketing exclusivity. The FDA’s ANDA approval, however, is conditional and does not become effective until the expiration of any applicable patent or marketing exclusivity periods. After the expiration of these periods, a generic product that has received conditional ANDA approval may be marketed immediately. Manufacturers of patented drugs, however, will often list additional patents on drugs in the FDA’s “Orange Book” as the original patent is due to expire and thereby prevent the marketing of generic drugs after the original patent has expired and even delay the ANDA approval process by an additional 30 months. A 2001 case in the Federal Circuit (Mylan v. Thompson) held that generic drug manufacturers have no right to protest the listing of the new patent even if the new patent has no relevance to the drug, which serves to allow the owner of the patent to bring an action for infringement if the generic drug manufacturer continues with the approval process and/or markets the drug. The generic drug manufacturer’s only recourse is to raise the impropriety of the new patent as a defense to the infringement action. Additionally, drug manufacturers may cause so-called citizen petitions to be filed with the FDA raising safety questions about potential competitors, thereby delaying introduction of the competitive products. Some drug products that are intended for over-the-counter marketing require NDA or ANDA approval. Most OTC drug products, however, may be commercially distributed without obtaining FDA approval of an NDA or ANDA application. The FDA established the OTC Drug Review in the early 1970’s, which led to the creation of OTC drug monographs that indicate whether certain drug ingredients are safe and effective for specific intended uses. Final OTC drug monographs have the force of law. Products that conform with the requirements of a final OTC drug monograph do not require NDA or ANDA approval, whereas OTC products not covered by a monograph must be approved via an NDA or ANDA. Many OTC drug monographs have not yet been finalized. The FDA, however, generally permits the marketing of OTC drug products that conform to the proposed requirements of a non-final monograph. The FDA also permits the marketing of OTC products that do not conform to a non-final monograph subject to certain limitations. Normally, such products may be marketed, pending the effective date of the applicable final OTC drug monograph, if they are substantially similar to OTC drug products that were marketed OTC in the United States prior to December 4, 1975. If the final drug monographs require us to expend substantial sums to maintain FDA compliance, we could be materially adversely affected. In the past, the generic OTC products (with the exception of ibuprofen) have not required approval of NDAs or ANDAs. Certain products which we have introduced or are under development, however, require such approvals. The FDA has approved ANDAs in 200 mg. 300 mg., 400 mg., 600 mg. and 800 mg. dosage strengths for the ibuprofen product (although, at present, we sell the ibuprofen products in the 200 mg. strength only). We have also obtained FDA approval of certain different colors and shapes for the 200 mg. ibuprofen product. Other products which have ANDA approval are a naproxen sodium product, a cimetidine product, an ibuprofen capsule and in 2002, an ibuprofen-pseudophedrine product. In September 2004 the FDA approved our supplemental new drug application for orange ibuprofen. The principal components of the products are active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials. Many of these components are available only from a single source and the government approvals may be based on a single supplier, even in instances when multiple sources exist. Because FDA approval of drugs requires manufacturers to specify their proposed suppliers of active ingredients and certain packaging materials in their applications, FDA approval of any new supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the specified supplier. The qualification of a new supplier could delay the development and marketing efforts. All drug products, whether prescription or OTC, are required to be manufactured and processed in compliance with the FDA’s current “good manufacturing practices” (cGMPs). CGMPs are “umbrella” regulations that prescribe, in general terms, the methods to be used for the manufacture, packing, processing and storage of drug products to ensure that such products are safe and effective. Examples of cGMP regulatory requirements include record-keeping requirements and mandatory testing of in-process materials and components. FDA inspectors determine whether a company is in compliance with cGMPs. Failure to comply with cGMPs may render a drug “adulterated” and could subject us to adverse regulatory actions. The FDA regulates many other aspects of pharmaceutical product development and marketing, including but not limited to product labeling and, for prescription drug products, product advertising. The Federal Trade Commission is the primary Federal agency responsible for regulating OTC drug product advertising. We believe that we are currently in compliance with FDA regulations. Our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the Food and Drug Administration for, among other things, conformance to cGMP requirements. Following an inspection, the FDA typically provides its observations, if any, in the form of a Form 483 (Notice of Inspectional Observations). In January 2004, the FDA initiated an inspection of our Edison, New Jersey manufacturing facility. Following the inspection, the FDA issued to us a Form 483 notice concerning our compliance with cGMP, including observations related to training, personnel and control systems. Although we responded to the Form 483 to address and correct the deficiencies, the FDA further issued a warning letter in May 2004 relating to these observations. In June 2004, we responded to the FDA with a plan of the corrective actions that we have taken or proposed to take. In that response, we committed to further developing and implementing, in a timely manner, the principles and strategies of systems-based quality management for improved cGMP compliance, operational performance and efficiencies. While there can be no assurance that an adverse determination of any of the matters identified in the FDA’s warning letter could not have a material adverse impact on our business in any future period, management does not believe, based on the information currently known to it, that the warning letter, or the actions that need to be taken in response to such letter, will materially adversely affect our operations. In November 2004 the FDA acknowledged our corrective action plans. On March 14, 2005 the FDA initiated a follow-up inspection of our facility, which concluded on March 30, 2005. We remain subject to periodic FDA inspections and there can be no assurances that we will not be required to undertake additional actions to comply with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements. Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to manufacture and distribute our products. The FDA has many enforcement tools including recalls, seizures, injunctions, civil fines and/or criminal prosecutions. During the pendancy of any FDA action it is also possible that the FDA will not approve any NDAs or ANDAs that we may submit for products to be manufactured at this facility. At this time, the FDA has not taken any action other than to issue the Form 483 and warning letter. Any additional actions that the FDA may take could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are also subject to the requirements of the Comprehensive Methamphetamine Control Act of 1996, a law designed to allow the DEA to monitor transactions involving chemicals that may be used illegally in the production of methamphetamine. This act establishes certain registration and record keeping requirements for manufacturers of OTC cold, allergy, asthma and diet medicines that contain ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or PPA. While certain of our OTC drug products contain pseudoephedrine, our products contain neither ephedrine, a chemical compound that is distinct from pseudoephedrine, nor PPA. Pseudoephedrine is a common ingredient in decongestant products manufactured by us and other pharmaceutical companies. We believe that our products are in compliance with all applicable DEA requirements. In addition to Federal regulation, pharmaceutical companies are subject to state regulatory requirements, which may differ from one state to another. Federal and/or state legislation and regulations concerning various aspects of the health care industry are under almost constant review and we are unable to predict, at this time, the likelihood of passage of additional legislation, nor can we predict the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments concerning the products and the health care field generally. Certain states are enacting legislation in reaction to nationwide concerns over the control of chemicals that may be used illegally in the production of methamphetamine. This legislation may result in the removal of certain products containing pseudoephedrine from the retail shelf to a more controlled position of sale behind the pharmacy counter of a retailer. Additionally, such legislation may require special product packaging, enhanced record keeping and limits on the amount of product a consumer may purchase. Products that we manufactured containing pseudoephedrine generated $8.5 million of sales in 2004. We expect these products to contribute similarly to total revenues in the future. We cannot predict whether further legislation will be passed or, if it is passed, its impact on future revenues of these products. Environmental Matters The prior owner of the Edison, New Jersey manufacturing facility, Revco, conducted a soil and groundwater cleanup of such facility, under the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act (ISRA), as administered by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP). NJDEP determined that the soil remediation was complete and approved the groundwater remediation plan, subject to certain conditions. Revco began operating a groundwater remediation treatment system in 1995. Although CVS (as the successor to Revco) is primarily responsible for the entire cost of the cleanup, we guaranteed the cleanup. In addition, we agreed to indemnify the owner of the facility under the terms of the 1989 sale leaseback. If CVS defaults in its obligations to pay the cost of the cleanup, and such costs exceed the amount of the bond posted by Revco, we may be required to make payment for any cleanup. The likelihood of CVS being unable to satisfy any claims which may be made against it in connection with the facility, however, are remote in our opinion. Accordingly, we believe that we will not have to bear any costs associated with remediation of the facility and we will not need to make any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. Research and Development; New Products and Products in Development We are engaged in a research and development program, which seeks to develop and gain regulatory approval of products, which are comparable to national brand products under the FDA OTC Drug Monograph process or the ANDA process. We are also engaged in R&D efforts related to certain prescription (sometimes referred to in the industry as “ethical”) products and are exploring potential acquisition candidates or joint ventures to facilitate entry into other drug categories. We maintain an experienced staff of four employees in the product development department, as well as other support staff to assist customers. Our research and development activities are primarily related to the determination of the formula and specifications of the products desired by customers, as well as the potency, dosage, flavor, quality, efficacy, color, hardness, form (i.e. tablet, caplet or capsule) and packaging of such products, as well as costs related to new products in development including costs associated with regulatory approvals. Our research and development expenditures were $290,000 in fiscal 2004, $323,000 in fiscal 2003, $148,000 in transition 2002 and $282,000 in fiscal 2002. The rate of R&D expenditures fluctuates significantly from year to year depending primarily on what branded products are coming off patent in the near future and whether or not such products are appropriate for development by us. Expenditures in one year are not necessarily indicative of expenditures in future years. We expect to spend in calendar 2005 approximately $300,000 on research and development activities consistent with the goal of continually increasing and improving the product line. Patents and Trademarks Allerfed®, Leg Ease®, Health+Cross®, Health Pharm® and Konsyl® are federally registered trademarks owned by us. To the extent that the packaging and labeling of generic OTC products may be considered similar to the brand name products to which they are comparable, and to the extent that a court may determine that such similarity may constitute confusion over the source of the product, we may be subject to legal actions under state and Federal statutes and case law to enjoin the use of the packaging and for damages. Insurance We may be subject to product liability claims by persons damaged by the use of our products. We maintain product liability insurance for the generic OTC products covering up to $10,000,000. Although there have been no successful material product liability claims made against us to date, there can be no assurance that such coverage will adequately cover any claims which may be made or that such insurance will not significantly increase in cost or become unavailable in the future. The inability to maintain necessary product liability insurance would significantly restrict our ability to sell any products and could result in a cessation of the business. Competition We compete not only with numerous manufacturers of generic OTC products, but also with brand name drug manufacturers and consumer goods manufacturers, most of which are betterknown to the public. In addition, our products compete with a wide range of products, including well-known name brand products, almost all of which are manufactured or distributed by major pharmaceutical companies or consumer goods manufacturers. Some of the competitors, including all of the manufacturers and distributors of brand name drugs, have greater financial and other resources than we have, and are therefore able to expend more effort than we do in areas such as product development and marketing. The crucial competitive factors are price, product quality, customer service and marketing. Although we believe that the present equipment and facilities render our operations competitive as to price and quality, many competitors may have far greater resources than we have, which may enable them to perform high quality services at lower prices than the services performed by us. Additionally, some of the customers may acquire the same equipment and technologies used by us and perform for themselves the services which we now perform for them. Employees As of January 1, 2005, we employed approximately 484 full-time employees. Of such employees, approximately 386 are engaged in manufacturing and operational activities and approximately 306 are covered by our collective bargaining agreement with Local 522 affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters of New Jersey, which expires in October 2007. Such union entered into an agreement with us on October 29, 2004 for a period of three years ending October 23, 2007. The changes implemented with the new agreement include increases in wages and medical payments and changes in policy regarding attendance policy, classifications and titles, job performance, job bids, bereavement and company shut-down. Additionally, three employees are represented by Local 68 of the International Union of Operating Engineers, affiliated with the AFL-CIO, which agreement expires October 31, 2005. We had approximately 24 persons employed in sales, marketing, customer service and graphic arts, 25 administrative employees and 49 laboratory technicians and scientists. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory. 