Item 1A. Risk Factors Our ability to operate in our existing markets or expand into new jurisdictions could be adversely affected by changing regulations or problems with obtaining needed licenses or approvals. We operate only in jurisdictions where gaming is legal. The gaming industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation by US federal, state and local governments, as well as tribal officials or organizations and foreign governments. While the regulatory requirements vary by jurisdiction, most require: ª licenses and/or permits ª findings of suitability ª documentation of qualifications, including evidence of financial stability ª other required approvals for companies who manufacture or distribute gaming equipment and services ª individual suitability of officers, directors, major stockholders and key employees Any delays in obtaining regulatory approvals needed for expansion within existing markets or into new jurisdictions can negatively affect our opportunities for growth. Further, changes in existing gaming regulations may hinder or prevent us from continuing to operate in those jurisdictions where we currently do business, which would harm our operating results. In particular, the enactment of unfavorable legislation or government efforts affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as referendums to increase gaming taxes or requirements to use local distributors, would likely have a negative impact on our operations. Slow growth in the number of new casinos or the rate of replacement of existing gaming machines could limit or reduce our future profits. Demand for our products is driven substantially by the replacement of existing gaming machines, the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions, and the addition of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos within existing gaming jurisdictions. The establishment or expansion of gaming in any jurisdiction typically requires a public referendum or other legislative action. As a result, gaming continues to be the subject of public debate, and there are numerous active organizations that oppose gaming. Opposition to gaming could result in restrictions on or even prohibitions of gaming operations in any jurisdiction. In addition, the rate of growth in the North American marketplace has diminished. A continued reduction in growth or in the number of gaming jurisdictions or delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos could reduce the demand for our products. Demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in player and operator preferences. As a supplier of gaming machines, we must offer themes and products that appeal to gaming operators and players. If we are unable to anticipate or timely react to any significant changes in player preferences, such as a negative change in the trend of acceptance of our newest systems innovations or jackpot fatigue (declining play levels on smaller jackpots), the demand for our gaming products could decline. Further, our products could suffer a loss of floor space to table games and operators may reduce revenue sharing arrangements, each of which would harm our sales and financial results. In addition, general changes in consumer behavior, such as reduced travel activity and redirection of entertainment dollars to other venues, could result in reduced demand for our products. Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions including recession, economic slowdown, or higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of casino patrons or result in fewer patrons visiting casinos. Such a decline in the relative health of the gaming industry would likely result in a decline in the amount of resources our customers have to purchase our products and services. This may also result in reduced play levels, which could cause our cash flows and revenues from revenue sharing products to decline. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by a decrease in interest rates causing an increase in jackpot expense and a reduction of investment income. Our success in the competitive gaming industry depends in large part on our ability to develop and manage frequent introductions of innovative products. The gaming industry is intensely competitive, and many of our competitors have substantial resources and specialize in the development and marketing of their products. Because the gaming industry is characterized by dynamic customer demand and rapid technological advances, we must continually introduce and successfully market new themes and technologies in order to remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Our customers will accept a new product only if it is likely to increase operator profits more than competitors’ products. There is no guarantee that our new products will attain this market acceptance or that our competitors will not more effectively anticipate or respond to changing customer preferences. In 18 Table of Contents addition, any delays by us in introducing new products on schedule could negatively impact our operating results by providing an opportunity for our competitors to introduce new products and gain market share ahead of us. Failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our success depends largely on recruiting and retaining talented employees. The market for qualified executives and highly skilled, technical workers is intensely competitive. The loss of key employees or an inability to hire a sufficient number of technical staff could limit our ability to develop successful products and cause delays in getting new products to market. We may be unable to protect our IP. A significant portion of our revenues is generated from products using certain IP rights, and our operating results would be negatively impacted if we were unsuccessful in protecting these rights from infringement. In addition, some of our most popular games and features are based on trademarks, patents and other IP licensed from third parties. The continued success of these games may depend upon our ability to retain or expand these licenses with reasonable terms. We also depend on trade secret law to protect certain proprietary knowledge and have entered into confidentiality agreements with those of our employees who have access to this information. However, there can be no guarantees that our employees will not breach these agreements, and if these agreements are breached it is unlikely that the remedies available to us will be sufficient to compensate us for the damages suffered. We may be subject to claims of IP infringement or invalidity. Periodically we receive notification from others claiming that we are infringing their patent, trademark or other IP rights. Regardless of their merit, such claims may cause us to incur significant costs. Responding to these claims could also require us to stop selling or to redesign our products, to pay significant amounts in damages or enter into agreements to pay significant licensing fees or royalties. Additionally, if any of these claims prove successful, it could limit our ability to bring new products to market in the future. Our gaming machines and online operations may experience losses due to fraudulent activities. We incorporate security features into the design of our gaming machines and other systems, including those responsible for our online operations, designed to prevent us and our patrons from being defrauded. However, there can be no guarantee that such security features will continue to be effective in the future. If our security systems fail to prevent fraud, our operating results could be adversely affected. Additionally, if third parties breach our security systems and defraud our patrons, the public may lose confidence in our gaming machines and operations. Our outstanding Senior Convertible Debentures subject us to additional risks. Our 2.6% Debentures issued in December 2006 contain a net settlement feature. This feature entitles holders of Debentures to receive cash up to $1,000 and shares for any excess conversion value determined in a manner in the indenture governing the Debentures. Consequently, if a significant number of Debentures are converted or redeemed, we would be required to make significant cash payments to the holders who convert their Debentures. Our outstanding credit facility subjects us to additional risks. Our Senior Credit Facility subjects us to a number of financial covenants, which could result in an event of default if not complied with. The Senior Credit Facility also includes restrictions that may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. Investments and development financing loans could adversely impact liquidity. We invest in and/or provide financing for expansion or construction of gaming locations and other business purposes. Such financing subjects us to increased credit risk in certain regions, as well as other inherent risks such as political or economic instability in related markets. Our liquidity or financial position may be negatively impacted if we are unable to collect on these loans or benefit from these investments. Current environmental laws and regulations, or those enacted in the future, could result in additional liabilities and costs. Manufacturing of our products may require the use of materials that are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws could increase our costs and impact the availability of components required to manufacture our product. Violation of these laws may subject us to significant fines, penalties or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 19 Table of Contents The risks related to operations outside of traditional US law could negatively affect our results. We operate in many countries outside of the US and tribal jurisdictions with sovereign immunity which subjects us to certain inherent risks including: ª political or economic instability ª additional costs of compliance ª tariffs and other trade barriers ª fluctuations in foreign exchange rates outside the US ª adverse changes in the creditworthiness of parties with whom we have significant receivables or forward currency exchange contracts Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 