Risk factors related to gaming regulation are included in Part 1, Item 1A. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and to other factors that adversely affect the casino industry, which have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the play levels of our participation games, our product sales, and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from our customers. Demand for our products and services depends largely upon favorable conditions in the casino industry, which is highly sensitive to casino patrons’ disposable incomes and gaming activities. Discretionary spending on entertainment activities could further decline for reasons beyond our control, such as continued negative economic conditions, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, transportation disruptions or health issues. Any prolonged or significant decrease in consumer spending on entertainment activities could result in reduced play levels on our participation games, causing our cash flows and revenues from a large share of our recurring revenue products to decline. Unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased liquidity in many financial markets, and significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain adequate levels of capital to finance their ongoing operations reduces their resources available to purchase our products and services, which adversely affects our revenues. If we experience a significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products, we could also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. 13 Furthermore, the extended economic downturn has impacted and could continue to impact the ability of our customers to make timely payments to us. We have, and may continue, to incur additional provisions for bad debt related to credit concerns on certain receivables. Our ability to operate in our existing markets or expand into new jurisdictions could be adversely affected by changing regulations, new interpretations of existing laws, and difficulties or delays in obtaining or maintaining needed licenses or approvals. We operate only in jurisdictions where gaming is legal. The gaming industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation by US federal, state and local governments, as well as tribal officials or organizations and foreign governments. While the regulatory requirements vary by jurisdiction, most require: ª licenses and/or permits ª findings of suitability ª documentation of qualifications, including evidence of financial stability ª other required approvals for companies who manufacture or distribute gaming equipment and services ª individual suitability of officers, directors, major shareholders and key employees Any license, permit, approval or finding of suitability may be revoked, suspended or conditioned at any time. We may not be able to obtain or maintain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits or approvals, or could experience delays related to the licensing process which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain key employees. To expand into new jurisdictions, we may need to be licensed, obtain approvals of our products and/or seek licensure of our officers, directors, major stockholders, key employees or business partners. If we fail to seek, do not receive or receive a revocation of a license in a particular jurisdiction for our games and gaming machines, hardware or software, we cannot sell or place on a participation or leased basis our products in that jurisdiction. Any delays in obtaining or difficulty in maintaining regulatory approvals needed for expansion within existing markets or into new jurisdictions can negatively affect our opportunities for growth. Further, changes in existing gaming regulations or new interpretations of existing gaming laws may hinder or prevent us from continuing to operate in those jurisdictions where we currently do business, which would harm our operating results. In particular, the enactment of unfavorable legislation or government efforts affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as referendums to increase gaming taxes or requirements to use local distributors, would likely have a negative impact on our operations. Slow growth in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions or the number of new casinos, declines in the rate of replacement of existing gaming machines and ownership changes and consolidation in the casino industry could limit or reduce our future profits. Demand for our products is driven substantially by the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions, the addition of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos within existing gaming jurisdictions and the replacement of existing gaming machines. The establishment or expansion of gaming in any jurisdiction typically requires a public referendum or other legislative action. As a result, gaming continues to be the subject of public debate, and there are numerous active organizations that oppose gaming. Opposition to gaming could result in restrictions on or even prohibitions of gaming operations or the expansion of operations in any jurisdiction. In addition, the construction of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos fluctuates with demand, general economic conditions and the availability of financing. The rate of gaming growth in North America has diminished and machine replacements are at historically low levels. Slow growth in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions or delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos and continued declines in, or low levels of demand for, machine replacements could reduce the demand for our products and our future profits. Because a substantial portion of our sales come from repeat customers, our business could be affected if one or more of our customers is sold to or merges with another entity that utilizes more of the products and services of one of our competitors or that reduces spending on our products or cau ses downward pricing pressures. Such consolidations could lead to order cancellations, a slowing in the rate of gaming machine replacements, or require our current customers to switch to our competitors’ products, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. 14 Demand for our products and the level of play of our products could be adversely affected by changes in player and operator preferences. As a supplier of gaming machines, we must offer themes and products that appeal to gaming operators and players. There is constant pressure to develop and market new game content and technologically innovative products. Our revenues are dependent on the earning power and life span of our games. We therefore face continuous pressure to design and deploy new and successful game themes to maintain our revenue and remain competitive. If we are unable to anticipate or react timely to any significant changes in player preferences, such as a negative change in the trend of acceptance of our newest systems innovations or jackpot fatigue (declining play levels on smaller jackpots), the demand for our gaming products and the level of play of our gaming products could decline. Further, our products could suff er a loss of floor space to table games or other more technologically advanced games or operators may reduce revenue sharing arrangements, each of which would harm our sales and financial results. In addition, general changes in consumer behavior, such as reduced travel activity or redirection of entertainment dollars to other venues, could result in reduced demand and reduced play levels for our gaming products. The gaming industry is intensely competitive. We face competition from a growing number of companies and, if we are unable to compete effectively, our business could be negatively impacted. Competition among manufacturers of electronic gaming equipment and systems products is intense. Competition in our industry is primarily based on the amount of profit our products generate for our customers, together with cost savings, convenience, and other benefits. Additionally, we compete on the basis of price and financing terms made available to customers, the appeal of game content and features to the end player, and the features and functionality of our hardware and software products. Our competitors range from small, localized companies to large, multi-national corporations, several of which have substantial resources. Competition in the gaming industry is intense due to the increasing number of providers, combined with the limited number of casino operators and jurisdictions in which they operate. This combination of a growing number of providers and a limited number of casino operators has resulted in an increased focus on price to value. To compete effectively, providers must offer innovative products, with increasing features and functionality benefiting the operators along with game content appealing to the end player, at prices that are attractive to operators. Obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is also a competitive factor in our industry. In addition, the level of competition among equipment providers has increased significantly due to consolidation among casino operators and cutbacks in capital spending by casino operators resulting from the economic downturn and decreased player spend. Our success in the competitive gaming industry depends in large part on our ability to develop and manage frequent introductions of innovative products. The gaming industry is characterized by dynamic customer demand and technological advances. As a result, we must continually introduce and successfully market new themes and technologies in order to remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. There is no assurance that our investments in research and development will lead to successful new technologies or timely new products. We invest heavily in product development in various disciplines from hardware, software, and firmware engineering to game design, video, multimedia, graphics, and sound. Because our newer products are generally more technologically sophisticated than those we have produced in the past, we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot efficiently adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades in our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. Our customers will accept a new product only if it is likely to increase operator profits more than competitors’ products. The amount of operator profits primarily depends on consumer play levels, which are influenced by player demand for our product. There is no certainty that our new products will attain this market acceptance or that our competitors will not more effectively anticipate or respond to changing customer preferences. In addition, any delays by us in introducing new products on schedule could negatively impact our operating results by providing an opportunity for our competitors to introduce new products and gain market share ahead of us. For example, our business and results could be adversely affected if we experience delays or problems in our continued deployment of sbX™ gaming management systems, or if we do not gain market acceptance for these or other systems that are currently under development. New products require regulatory approval and may be subject to complex and dynamic revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results. As we introduce new products and transactions become increasingly complex, additional analysis and judgment is required to account for and recognize revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Transactions may include multiple element arrangements and/or software components and applicable accounting principles or regulatory product approval delays could further change the timing of revenue recognition and could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. Fluctuations may occur in our deferred revenues and reflect our continued shift toward more multiple element contracts that include systems and software. 15 A decline in and/or sustained low interest rates causes an increase in our jackpot expense which could limit or reduce our future profits. Changes in prime and/or treasury and agency interest rates during a given period cause fluctuations in jackpot expense largely due to the revaluation of future winner liabilities. When rates increase, jackpot liabilities are reduced as it costs less to fund the liability. However, when interest rates decline or remain low the value of the liability (and related jackpot expense) increases because the cost to fund the liability increases. Our results may continue to be negatively impacted by continuing low interest rates or further declines in interest rates, resulting in increased jackpot expense and a reduction of our investment income, which could limit or reduce our future profits. We may be unable to protect our IP. A significant portion of our revenues is generated from products using certain IP rights and our operating results would be negatively impacted if we are unsuccessful in protecting these rights from infringement. In addition, some of our most popular games and features are based on trademarks, patents and other IP licensed from third parties. Our future success may depend upon our ability to obtain, retain and/or expand licenses for popular IP rights with reasonable terms in a competitive market. In the event that we cannot renew and/or expand existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue or limit our use of the games or gaming machines that use the licensed technology or bear the licensed marks. Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain trademark protection for the names or symbols under which we market our products and to obtain copyright protection and patent protection of our proprietary technologies, intellectual property and other game innovations. We may not be able to build and maintain goodwill in our trademarks or obtain trademark or patent protection, and there can be no assurance that any trademark, copyright or issued patent will provide competitive advantages for us or that our intellectual properties will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain proprietary knowledge and have entered into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information. However, there can be no guarantees that our employees and consultants will not breach these agreements, and if these agreements are breached it is unlikely that the remedies available to us will be sufficient to compensate us for the damages suffered. Additionally, despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. We may be subject to claims of IP infringement or invalidity and adverse outcomes of litigation could unfavorably affect our operating results. Competitors and others may infringe on our intellectual property rights, or may allege that we have infringed on theirs. Monitoring infringement and misappropriation of intellectual property can be difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to detect infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. We may also incur significant litigation expenses protecting our intellectual property or defending our use of intellectual property, reducing our ability to bring new products to market in the future. These expenses could have an adverse effect on our future cash flows and results of operations. Our assessment of current IP litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or others that do not agree with our evaluation of the p ossible liability or outcome of such litigation. If we are found to infringe on the rights of others we could be required to discontinue offering certain products or systems, to pay damages, or purchase a license to use the intellectual property in question from its owner. Litigation can also distract management from the day-to-day operations of the business. There can be no assurances that certain of our products, including those with currently pending patent applications, will not be determined to have infringed upon an existing third party patent. 16 The risks related to operations in foreign countries and outside of traditional US jurisdictions could negatively affect our results. We operate in many countries outside of the US and in tribal jurisdictions with sovereign immunity which subjects us to certain inherent risks. Developments such as noted below could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations: ª social, political or economic instability ª additional costs of compliance with international laws or unexpected changes in regulatory requirements ª tariffs and other trade barriers ª fluctuations in foreign exchange rates outside the US ª adverse changes in the creditworthiness of parties with whom we have significant receivables or forward currency exchange contracts ª expropriation, nationalization and restrictions on repatriation of funds or assets ª difficulty protecting our intellectual property ª recessions in foreign economies ª difficulties in maintaining foreign operations ª changes in consumer tastes and trends ª acts of war or terrorism ª US government requirements for export. Our outstanding domestic credit facility subjects us to financial covenants which may limit our flexibility. Our domestic credit facility subjects us to a number of financial covenants, including a minimum ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to interest expense minus interest on jackpot liabilities and a maximum ratio of debt to Adjusted EBITDA. Our failure or inability to comply with these covenants will cause an event of default that, if not cured, could cause the entire outstanding borrowings under our domestic credit facility, 5.5% Bonds, 7.5% Bonds and Notes to become immediately due and payable. In addition, our interest rate under the domestic credit facility can vary based on our public credit rating or our debt-to-capitalization ratio. Each of these measures may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic conditions. The domestic credit facility also includes restrictions that may limit our flexibility in planning f or, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. Our obligations under our domestic credit facility are generally unsecured, except that we have agreed that, in the event of certain declines in our debt ratings as described in the domestic credit facility, as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, we will grant a lien on 100% of the equity interests of IGT's direct and wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and 66% of the equity interests of IGT's direct and wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, holders of the Notes issued and sold by us in May 2009, the 7.5% Bonds, 5.5% Bonds or similar securities issued by us and certain interest rate hedges provided by lenders under our domestic credit facility or their affiliates are permitted to share in any collateral that may be granted in the event our de bt rating declines. To the extent a lien is granted such lien will be subsequently released if we thereafter satisfy the minimum debt rating requirements set forth in our domestic credit facility for at least three consecutive calendar months. Initially, and in the future our 7.5% Bonds and 5.5% Bonds are not expected to, be secured by any of our assets. We may be required in connection with any future indebtedness, or the terms with respect to existing indebtedness including under our domestic credit facility, to provide a lien against some or all of our assets. To the extent that a lien on our assets is not also granted on an equal and ratable basis with our domestic credit facility in favor of the 7.5% Bonds and 5.5% Bonds, then if we become insolvent or are liquidated, or in the event that our existing indebtedness becomes secured, as described above, and payment of such secured indebtedness is accelerated, the holders of the secured indebtedness will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to them under applicable law, including the ability to for eclose on and sell the assets securing such indebtedness in order to satisfy such indebtedness. In any such case, any remaining assets may be insufficient to repay the notes and our other unsecured indebtedness. 17 Our outstanding Notes subject us to additional risks. Our Notes issued in May 2009 contain a net settlement feature, which entitles holders to receive cash up to $1,000 per Note and shares for any excess conversion value as determined by the respective governing indentures. Consequently, if a significant number of Notes are converted or redeemed, we would be required to make significant cash payments to the holders who convert or redeem the Notes. In connection with the offering of the Notes, we entered into additional separate transactions for note hedges and warrant transactions. In connection with these transactions, the hedge counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and may enter into or unwind various derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of the Notes. These activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in, or having a negative effect on, the value of our common stock and could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our common stock during any conversion reference period related to a conversion of the Notes. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of our common stock pursuant to the warrants. Our gaming machines and online operations may experience losses due to technical problems or fraudulent activities. Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware anomalies and fraudulent manipulation of our gaming machines. We incorporate security features into the design of our gaming machines and other systems, including those responsible for our online operations, which are designed to prevent us and our patrons from being defrauded. We also monitor our software and hardware to avoid, detect and correct any technical errors. However, there can be no guarantee that our security features or technical efforts will continue to be effective in the future. If our security systems fail to prevent fraud or if we experience any significant technical difficulties, our operating results could be adversely affected. Additionally, if third parties breach our security systems and defraud our pa trons, or if our hardware or software experiences any technical anomalies, the public may lose confidence in our gaming machines and operations or we could become subject to legal claims by our customers or to investigation by gaming authorities. Our gaming machines have experienced anomalies and fraudulent manipulation in the past. Games and gaming machines may be replaced by casinos and other gaming machine operators if they do not perform according to expectations, or may be shut down by regulators. The occurrence of anomalies in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses, or disciplinary action. Business combinations and investments in intellectual properties or affiliates present risk, and we may not be able to realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of the transaction, which could materially affect our financial results. We have invested in strategic business combinations and acquisitions of important technologies and IP that we believe will expand our geographic reach, product lines, and/or customer base. We may encounter difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies and/or products, or an acquisition may prove to be less valuable than the price we paid. We also may encounter difficulties applying our internal controls to an acquired business. Any of these events or circumstances may have an adverse effect on our business by requiring us to, among other things, record substantial impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. Moreover, as we continue the process of evaluating our business in conjunction with an assessment of our long-term strategic goals, we will also further evaluate past and potential investments to determine if and how they will fit into our organizational structure going forward. If an event or change occurs in affiliate relationships or agreements associated with business combinations, we may be required to reassess cash flows, recoverability, useful lives, and fair value measurements, which may result in material impairment charges. Failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our success depends largely on recruiting and retaining talented employees. The market for qualified executives and highly skilled, technical workers is intensely competitive. The loss of key employees or an inability to hire a sufficient number of technical staff could limit our ability to develop successful products and cause delays in getting new products to market. 18 Investments and development financing loans could adversely impact liquidity or cause us to incur loan losses or record a charge to earnings if our investments become impaired. We invest in and/or provide financing for expansion or construction of gaming locations and other business purposes, including locations abroad. Such investment and financing activities subject us to increased credit risk in certain regions, which could be exacerbated by current unfavorable economic conditions or other political or economic instability in those regions. We monitor our investments and financing activities to assess impairment on a quarterly basis. We have in the past and may in the future incur losses on these types of investments and loans. Our results of operations, liquidity or financial position may be negatively impacted if we are unable to collect on loans or derive benefit from our investments. Current environmental laws and regulations, or those enacted in the future, could result in additional liabilities and costs. The manufacturing of our products may require the use of materials that are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations (such as climate change legislation). Compliance with these laws could increase our costs and impact the availability of components required to manufacture our products. Violation of these laws may subject us to significant fines, penalties or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 