Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and current unfavorable economic conditions have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the play levels of our participation games, our product sales, and our ability to collect outstanding receivables from our customers. Existing unfavorable general economic conditions reduce disposable income of casino patrons and result in fewer patrons visiting casinos. This decline in disposable income likely results in reduced play levels on our participation games, causing our cash flows and revenues from a large share of our recurring revenue products to decline. Current unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased liquidity in many financial markets, and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain adequate levels of capital to finance their ongoing operations reduces their resources available to purchase our products and services, which adversely affects our revenues. If we experience a significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products, we could also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. Furthermore, the extended economic downturn has impacted and could continue to impact the ability of our customers to make timely payments to us. We have, and may continue, to incur additional provisions for bad debt related to credit concerns on certain receivables. A decline in and/or sustained low interest rates causes an increase in our jackpot expense which could limit or reduce our future profits. Changes in prime and/or treasury and agency interest rates during a given period cause fluctuations in jackpot expense largely due to the revaluation of future winner liabilities. When rates increase, jackpot liabilities are reduced as it costs less to fund the liability. However, when interest rates decline or remain low the value of the liability (and related jackpot expense) increases because the cost to fund the liability increases. Our results may continue to be negatively impacted by continuing low interest rates or further declines in interest rates, resulting in increased jackpot expense and a reduction of our investment income, which could limit or reduce our future profits. Our outstanding Debentures and Notes subject us to additional risks. Our Debentures issued in December 2006 and our Notes issued in May 2009 contain a net settlement feature, which entitles holders to receive cash up to $1,000 per Debenture or Note and shares for any excess conversion value as determined by the respective governing indentures. Consequently, if a significant number of Debentures or Notes are converted or redeemed, we would be required to make significant cash payments to the holders who convert or redeem the Debentures or Notes. In connection with the offering of the Notes, we entered into additional separate transactions for note hedges and warrant transactions. In connection with these transactions, the hedge counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and may enter into or unwind various derivative transactions and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions prior to maturity of the Notes. These activities could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in, or having a negative effect on, the value of our common stock and could have the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the value of our common stock during any conversion reference period related to a conversion of the Notes. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect from the issuance of our common stock pursuant to the warrants. 14 Table of Contents On November 12, 2009, we gave holders of the Debentures notice of this put right, which will terminate on December 14, 2009. Given current market conditions and the recent trading price of our stock, we expect Debenture holders will exercise their right to require IGT to redeem the Debentures on December 15, 2009. We plan to incur additional borrowings under our credit facility to pay the Debentures put to us in December 2009. Our outstanding domestic credit facility subjects us to financial covenants which may limit our flexibility. Our Domestic Credit Facility subjects us to a number of financial covenants, including a minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest expense minus interest on jackpot liabilities and a maximum ratio of debt to EBITDA. Our failure or inability to comply with these covenants will cause an event of default that, if not cured, could cause the entire outstanding borrowings under our Domestic Credit Facility and bonds to become immediately due and payable. In addition, our interest rate under the Domestic Credit Facility can vary based on our public credit rating or our debt to capitalization ratio. Each of these measures may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic conditions. The Domestic Credit Facility also includes restrictions that may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. Slow growth in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions or the number of new casinos and declines in the rate of replacement of existing gaming machines could limit or reduce our future profits. Demand for our products is driven substantially by the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions, the addition of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos within existing gaming jurisdictions and the replacement of existing gaming machines. The establishment or expansion of gaming in any jurisdiction typically requires a public referendum or other legislative action. As a result, gaming continues to be the subject of public debate, and there are numerous active organizations that oppose gaming. Opposition to gaming could result in restrictions on or even prohibitions of gaming operations or the expansion of operations in any jurisdiction. In addition, the construction of new casinos or expansion of existing casinos fluctuates with demand, general economic conditions and the availability of financing. The rate of gaming growth in North America has diminished and machine replacements are at historically low levels. Slow growth in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions or delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos and continued declines in, or low levels of demand for, machine replacements could reduce the demand for our products and our future profits. Demand for our products and the level of play of our products could be adversely affected by changes in player and operator preferences. As a supplier of gaming machines, we must offer themes and products that appeal to gaming operators and players. If we are unable to anticipate or react timely to any significant changes in player preferences, such as a negative change in the trend of acceptance of our newest systems innovations or jackpot fatigue (declining play levels on smaller jackpots), the demand for our gaming products and the level of play of our gaming products could decline. Further, our products could suffer a loss of floor space to table games and operators may reduce revenue sharing arrangements, each of which would harm our sales and financial results. In addition, general changes in consumer behavior, such as reduced travel activity or redirection of entertainment dollars to other venues, could result in reduced demand and reduced play levels for our gaming products. 15 Table of Contents Our ability to operate in our existing markets or expand into new jurisdictions could be adversely affected by changing regulations or problems with obtaining or maintaining needed licenses or approvals. We operate only in jurisdictions where gaming is legal. The gaming industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation by US federal, state and local governments, as well as tribal officials or organizations and foreign governments. While the regulatory requirements vary by jurisdiction, most require: ª licenses and/or permits ª findings of suitability ª documentation of qualifications, including evidence of financial stability ª other required approvals for companies who manufacture or distribute gaming equipment and services ª individual suitability of officers, directors, major stockholders and key employees Any delays in obtaining or difficulty in maintaining regulatory approvals needed for expansion within existing markets or into new jurisdictions can negatively affect our opportunities for growth. Further, changes in existing gaming regulations may hinder or prevent us from continuing to operate in those jurisdictions where we currently do business, which would harm our operating results. In particular, the enactment of unfavorable legislation or government efforts affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as referendums to increase gaming taxes or requirements to use local distributors, would likely have a negative impact on our operations. Our success in the competitive gaming industry depends in large part on our ability to develop and manage frequent introductions of innovative products. The gaming industry is intensely competitive, and many of our competitors have substantial resources and specialize in the development and marketing of their products. Increased competition has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our results. Because the gaming industry is characterized by dynamic customer demand and rapid technological advances, we must continually introduce and successfully market new themes and technologies in order to remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand. Our customers will accept a new product only if it is likely to increase operator profits more than competitors’ products. There is no certainty that our new products will attain this market acceptance or that our competitors will not more effectively anticipate or respond to changing customer preferences. In addition, any delays by us in introducing new products on schedule could negatively impact our operating results by providing an opportunity for our competitors to introduce new products and gain market share ahead of us. For example, our business and results could be adversely affected if we experience delays or problems in our planned introduction of sbX™ gaming management systems, or if we do not gain market acceptance for these systems. New products require regulatory approval and may be subject to complex and dynamic revenue recognition standards, which could materially affect our financial results. As we introduce new products and transactions become increasingly complex, additional analysis and judgment is required to account for and recognize revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Transactions may include multiple element arrangements and/or software components and applicable accounting principles or regulatory product approval delays could change the timing of revenue recognition and could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. Fluctuations may occur in our deferred revenues and reflect our continued shift toward more multiple element contracts that include systems and software. Investments and development financing loans could adversely impact liquidity or cause us to incur loan losses or record a charge to earnings if our investments become impaired. We invest in and/or provide financing for expansion or construction of gaming locations and other business purposes, including locations abroad. Such investment and financing activities subject us to increased credit risk in certain regions, which could be exacerbated by current unfavorable economic conditions or other political or economic instability in those regions. We monitor our investments and financing activities to assess impairment on a quarterly basis. We have in the past and may in the future incur losses on these types of investments and loans. For example, as a result of significant adverse changes in the expected financial performance of LVGI, we recorded impairment of $13.3 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 related to our investment in LVGI. Our results of operations, liquidity or financial position may be negatively impacted if we are unable to collect on loans or derive benefit from our investments. 16 Table of Contents Our gaming machines and online operations may experience losses due to fraudulent activities. We incorporate security features into the design of our gaming machines and other systems, including those responsible for our online operations, which are designed to prevent us and our patrons from being defrauded. However, there can be no guarantee that such security features will continue to be effective in the future. If our security systems fail to prevent fraud, our operating results could be adversely affected. Additionally, if third parties breach our security systems and defraud our patrons, the public may lose confidence in our gaming machines and operations. We may be unable to protect our IP. A significant portion of our revenues is generated from products using certain IP rights and our operating results would be negatively impacted if we are unsuccessful in protecting these rights from infringement. In addition, some of our most popular games and features are based on trademarks, patents and other IP licensed from third parties. The continued success of these games may depend upon our ability to retain or expand these licenses with reasonable terms. We also depend on trade secret law to protect certain proprietary knowledge and have entered into confidentiality agreements with those of our employees who have access to this information. However, there can be no guarantees that our employees will not breach these agreements, and if these agreements are breached it is unlikely that the remedies available to us will be sufficient to compensate us for the damages suffered. We may be subject to claims of IP infringement or invalidity and adverse outcomes of litigation could unfavorably affect our operating results. Periodically, we receive notification from others claiming that we are infringing upon their patent, trademark or other IP rights. Regardless of their merit, such claims may cause us to incur significant costs. Responding to these claims could also require us to stop selling or to redesign our products, to pay significant amounts in damages or to enter into agreements to pay significant licensing fees or royalties. Additionally, if any of these claims prove successful, it could limit our ability to bring new products to market in the future. Our assessment of current IP litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or others that do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation. Business combinations and investments in intellectual properties or affiliates present risk, and we may not be able to realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of the transaction, which could materially affect our financial results. We have invested in strategic business combinations and acquisitions of important technologies and IP that we believe will expand our geographic reach, product lines, and/or customer base. We may encounter difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies and/or products, or an acquisition may prove to be less valuable than the price we paid. Any of these events or circumstances may require us to record substantial impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. Moreover, as we continue the process of evaluating our business in conjunction with an assessment of the company’s long-term strategic goals, we will also further evaluate past and potential investments to determine if and how they will fit into our organizational structure going forward. If an event or change occurs in affiliate relationships or agreements associated with business combinations, we may be required to reassess cash flows, recoverability, useful lives, and fair value measurements, which may result in material impairment charges. Failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our success depends largely on recruiting and retaining talented employees. The market for qualified executives and highly skilled, technical workers is intensely competitive. The loss of key employees or an inability to hire a sufficient number of technical staff could limit our ability to develop successful products and cause delays in getting new products to market. 17 Table of Contents Current environmental laws and regulations, or those enacted in the future, could result in additional liabilities and costs. The manufacturing of our products may require the use of materials that are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws could increase our costs and impact the availability of components required to manufacture our products. Violation of these laws may subject us to significant fines, penalties or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The risks related to operations outside of traditional US law could negatively affect our results. We operate in many countries outside of the US and in tribal jurisdictions with sovereign immunity which subjects us to certain inherent risks including: ª political or economic instability ª additional costs of compliance ª tariffs and other trade barriers ª fluctuations in foreign exchange rates outside the US ª adverse changes in the creditworthiness of parties with whom we have significant receivables or forward currency exchange contracts 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 