ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Any factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. Risks Related to Our Business Following the sale of the CADRA business in October 2013, we will need to restructure our business to enable us to successfully operate as a significantly smaller company and to seek new sources of revenue and new strategic initiatives. SofTech operating results subsequent to the sale of the CADRA business may not be profitable, and we may be unsuccessful in developing new business opportunities. The CADRA business was responsible for about half of the consolidated revenue in fiscal 2013 and the majority of the profitability and cash flow. The importance of the CADRA business to the consolidated results in fiscal 2013 was similar in at least the two immediately preceding fiscal years. The remaining product lines following the CADRA Sale, namely ProductCenter and the Connector technologies, are product lines that have historically been less profitable than the CADRA business, have fewer customers and have a more complex sales cycle. It is likely that the Company will need to reduce spending in order to achieve profitability, and ultimately will need to find new strategic directions and new sources of revenue in order to meaningfully increase the size of its business. The new product ideas that the management team has interest in pursuing as described in the patent filings over the last few years are speculative in that the products are still in development and the management team may not have the depth of experience required to be successful in those new markets. 8 Continued revenue declines in our product lines may have a material adverse impact upon our business and overall financial performance. We have experienced consolidated revenue declines for nearly a decade. Our ProductCenter technology, which we acquired in 2003, manages the engineering data and electronic files of discrete parts designed in third party proprietary design technologies offered primarily by SolidWorks, PTC and Autodesk. Revenue from our ProductCenter technology has been declining due to several factors. In July 2007, PTC informed us that it would not renew its partnership agreement with us when the agreement expired in January 2008. We had been a member of the PTC partnership program for 12 years. The PTC partnership agreement, among other things, provided us with the right to distribute certain information that allowed for our technology to directly interface with PTC’s proprietary CAD tools. The non-renewal has essentially prevented us from marketing our ProductCenter solution to new customers that utilize PTC’s technology and has negatively impacted our product revenue from this technology offering. In addition to the PTC partnership termination, ProductCenter revenues have been negatively affected by: (i) an increased number of competitive offerings in the marketplace, (ii) elongation of purchase decisions by customers of a technology that already has a long sales cycle, and (iii) uncertain economic conditions. Significant future declines in our total revenues may have a material adverse impact upon our business and overall financial performance. We compete against numerous technology companies in the mature PLM industry that are significantly larger and have vastly greater financial resources at their disposal. Many of our competitors, including PTC, SolidWorks, Siemens and Autodesk, have substantially greater financial, technological, marketing, managerial and research and development resources and experience than we do and represent significant competition for us. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or products which may gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products. Existing or proposed products of our competitors may render our existing or proposed products noncompetitive or obsolete. If we are unable to compete successfully in the future, the competitive pressures that we face could adversely affect our profitability or financial performance. Our agreements with certain software vendors may be terminated at will by the vendors. We utilize third party vendors to provide certain software and utilities which enable us to continue to develop and support ProductCenter customers with their integrations from ProductCenter to their respective CAD solutions. These agreements are subject to termination at will by the vendors, and, if terminated, we would need to seek alternative methods of providing continuing support to our existing customers and an alternative solution to meet the needs of prospective customers, which could have a material adverse effect on future performance. For example, in July 2007, we were informed that our agreement with one such vendor, PTC, was not going to be extended beyond its renewal date of January 31, 2008. Thus the agreement with PTC has since expired. A significant number of our current ProductCenter customers utilize PTC’s proprietary CAD technology. We continue to support our current customers who are utilizing PTC’s CAD solution with a customer specific consulting solution. While this customer specific consulting solution has allowed us to retain the majority of our customers utilizing PTC’s CAD tool, it has precluded us from proposing our solution to new customers using that CAD technology. Our inability to offer our solution to new customers utilizing PTC’s technology or similar restrictions that could result from any future terminations of similar agreements with other vendors could have an adverse effect on our future revenues. We may not be able to generate sufficient positive cash flow in the future to fund our operations. In addition to our bank financing, we are dependent upon cash flows from our business to fund our operations. It is our expectation that we can improve our cash flows; however, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to fund our operations from future cash flows, we will need to seek additional debt and/or equity financing, which may not be available on attractive terms, if at all, in which case there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 9 Failure to comply with financial covenants in our loan agreement could adversely affect us. As of May 31, 2014, we had $1 million of outstanding indebtedness under our term loan with Prides Crossing Capital. This indebtedness is secured by all of our assets. Our loan agreement includes financial covenants which require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios during the term of the agreement. Failure to comply with the financial covenants is an event of default under the loan agreement. In an event of default, the lender has the right to accelerate repayment of all sums due and take any and all action, at its sole option, to collect monies owed to it, including to enforce and foreclose on its security interest on all of our assets. If our lender were to accelerate our debt payments, our assets may not be sufficient to fully repay the debt and we may not be able to obtain capital from other sources at favorable terms or at all. Prior to the Recapitalization Transaction, we defaulted on our previous debt arrangement with Greenleaf. Specifically, in June 2010, we failed to make the scheduled loan payments in accordance with our loan and revolving line of credit with Greenleaf, our sole debt provider at the time, which triggered the default. In 1999, we defaulted on our loan facility with Imperial Bank for failure to meet required profit and cash flow thresholds. Subsequent to each of the aforementioned debt defaults, satisfactory repayment agreements were reached with each lender. Our loan agreement imposes restrictions on our ability to take certain corporate actions and raise additional capital. In addition, the loan agreement contains certain affirmative financial covenants related to quarterly EBITDA performance and month-end liquidity. Our loan agreement contains numerous restrictions that limit our ability to undertake certain activities without the express prior written approval of the lender. These include, but are not limited to, restricting our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay or declare dividends; · enter into a business substantially different from existing operations; · issue or authorize any additional or new equity that will result in a change of control; and · take any corporate action outside the ordinary course of the business without the prior written approval of our lender. These restrictions could significantly hamper our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to receive the necessary approvals is largely dependent upon our relationship with our lender and our financial performance, and no assurances can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals in the future. Our inability to raise additional capital could lead to working capital deficits that could have a materially adverse effect on our operations in future periods. In addition to the restrictions, the loan agreement contains certain affirmative financial covenants regarding quarterly performance and end of month liquidity. If the Company were to fail to meet any of those financial covenants it could be declared in default under the loan agreement thereby requiring immediate repayment of loan principal. Our ability to use our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) to reduce taxable income generated in the future could be substantially limited or eliminated. As of May 31, 2014, we had approximately $20 million of federal NOLs available to offset future taxable income, which expire in varying amounts beginning in 2022, if unused. We may not generate taxable income in time to use these NOLs prior to their expiration, and the Internal Revenue Service may not agree with the amount or timing of prior losses, thereby limiting the value of our NOLs. Furthermore, our ability to use our NOLs is subject to an annual limitation due to ownership changes that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as determined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as well as similar state regulations. Depending on the actual amount of any limitation on our ability to use our NOLs, our future taxable income could be subject to federal and/or state income tax, creating federal and/or state income tax liabilities. On February 3, 2012, we entered into a Rights Agreement (“Rights Agreement”), as described below, in an effort to prevent an ownership change, as defined under Section 382, from occurring and thereby protect the value of our NOLs. This Rights Agreement expires on February 15, 2015, unless extended by our board of directors. There can be no assurance, however, that the Rights Agreement will prevent an ownership change from occurring or protect the value of our NOLs. 10 We adopted a tax benefits preservation plan, designed to preserve the value of our deferred tax assets, primarily related to NOLs, which may discourage acquisition and sale of large blocks of our stock and may result in significant dilution for certain stockholders. Our board of directors adopted the Rights Agreement to preserve stockholder value and the value of certain income tax assets primarily associated with NOLs, by seeking to prevent any person from acquiring beneficial ownership of 4.99% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of the board of directors. In connection with the Rights Agreement, the board of directors of the Company declared a dividend of one common share purchase right (a “Right”) for each outstanding share of common stock. The dividend was payable on February 15, 2012 to the stockholders of record on February 15, 2012. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement and at the discretion of our board of directors, if any person or group becomes the beneficial owner (subject to certain restrictions) of 4.99% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock the Right may become exercisable. Upon exercise of a Right and payment of the purchase price of $5.00 (the “Purchase Price”), the holder will be entitled to receive a number of shares of our common stock having a market value equal to two times the Purchase Price. The Rights Agreement may discourage existing 5% stockholders from selling their interest in a single block which may impact the liquidity of our common stock, may deter institutional investors from investing in our common stock, and may deter potential acquirers from making premium offers to acquire SofTech, all factors which may depress the market price of our stock or prevent stockholders from receiving a premium in a change in control transaction. The Rights Agreement expires, unless otherwise extended, on February 15, 2015. Our quarterly results may fluctuate making our future revenue and financial results difficult to predict. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate significantly for several reasons including: the timing and success of introductions of any new products or product enhancements or those of our competitors; uncertainty created by changes in the market; variations in the size and timing of individual orders; competition and pricing; seasonality; and customer order deferrals or cancellations as a result of general economic conditions or industry decline. Furthermore, we have often recognized a substantial portion of our product revenues in the last month of a quarter, with these revenues frequently concentrated in the last weeks or days of a quarter. As a result, product revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in the latter part of that quarter and revenues from any future quarter are not predictable with any significant degree of accuracy. We typically do not experience order backlog. For these reasons, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if significant errors or defects are found in our software. Sophisticated software can sometimes contain errors, defects or other performance problems. If errors or defects are discovered in our current or future products, we may need to expend significant financial, technical and management resources, or divert some of our development resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects, and we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or provide an adequate response to our customers. Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products could cause us to delay new product releases or customer deployments. Any such delays could negatively impact our ability to realize revenue from the licensing and shipment of new or enhanced products and give our competitors a greater opportunity to market competing products. Such difficulties could also cause us to lose customers. Technical problems or the loss of customers could also damage our business reputation and cause us to lose new business opportunities. 11 We are dependent on key personnel whose loss could impair our operations, our product development or our sales efforts. We are a small company especially for one that is publicly held. Our technologies are complex and have been developed over many years. While we enjoy the benefit of a very experienced, long-tenured employee group, we are dependent on many of those employees for the familiarity, expertise and unique insight they have developed with our products that would be extremely difficult and time consuming to replace. We maintain “key-man” life insurance on our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Mullaney in the amount of $3,000,000. Mr. Mullaney’s policy was required as part of the debt facility. The proceeds from the life insurance, in the event of his demise, would be used to satisfy the outstanding debt obligation with our lender and the excess, if any, would revert to his estate. The loss of services of any of our key personnel could make it difficult for us to meet important objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions and financial goals. We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. Our ProductCenter technology was launched in the early 1990’s. Over the decades that our technologies have been in the marketplace, a significant number of patents have been filed by competitors. It is difficult if not impossible for us to monitor these patent awards to become familiar with their claims and we do not attempt to do so. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There can be no assurance that we do not or will not infringe on the patent or proprietary rights of others. Parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products, and such claims could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products or be required to cease offering affected products and our operating results would be harmed. Our sales and operations are globally dispersed, which exposes us to additional operating and compliance risks. We sell and deliver software and services, and maintain support operations in multiple countries whose laws and practices differ from one another. For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014, North America accounted for approximately 67%, Europe for approximately 23% and Asia for approximately 10% of our revenue which was not materially different from the percentages for fiscal year 2013. Managing these geographically dispersed operations requires significant attention and resources to ensure compliance with laws. Accordingly, while we maintain a compliance program, we cannot guarantee that an employee, agent or business partner will not act in violation of our policies or U.S. or other applicable laws. Such violations can lead to civil and/or criminal prosecutions, substantial fines and the revocation of our rights to continue certain operations and also cause business and reputation loss. We are obligated to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. From August 16, 2010 to December 27, 2011 we were not required to file periodic reports and other reports with the SEC. In December 2011, we filed a Form 8-A with the SEC in connection with the effectiveness of our registration statement (333-174818), subjecting us again to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. As a public company, we are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. We may not be able to remediate future material weaknesses, or to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 12 Because we are a relatively small company, the requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management; and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company, we need to comply with certain laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations of the SEC. If we list our securities on an exchange, the exchange will impose additional requirements on listed companies, including enhanced corporate governance practices. For example, the NASDAQ listing requirements require that listed companies satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, shareholder meetings, shareholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, shareholder voting rights and codes of business conduct. Complying with the SEC statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and could increase our costs and expenses. From time to time we may make acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As a part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may make acquisitions in the future. We may also make significant investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we may acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Weakness in the United States and international economies may continue to adversely affect our business. The past few years have been characterized by weak global economic conditions. Because we market, sell and license our products throughout the world, in addition to the ongoing adverse effects on our business of continued weakness in the U.S. economy, we could be significantly affected by continuing weak economic conditions in foreign and domestic markets that could reduce demand for our products. Risks Related to the Market for our Common Stock Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could decline in value. Since the Recapitalization Transaction, the closing stock price has ranged from a low price of $1.00 per share to a high price of $4.95 per share. A contributing factor to the price fluctuation is the low average daily volume, which over the last three fiscal years has averaged fewer than 1,000 shares per day. Given the lack of market makers in the stock and the low demand, a shareholder’s attempt to sell a large number of shares relative to the average daily volume in a short period of time will likely have a material negative impact on the share price. A small number of shareholders own a large number of shares thereby potentially exerting significant influence over us. After considering the equity transactions described in Note M to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, the three members of our board of directors own approximately 28.8% of our outstanding shares. Two other shareholders together own 33.1% of outstanding shares. This concentration of ownership could significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock. In addition, the interest of our significant shareholders may not always coincide with the interest of the Company’s other shareholders. In deciding how to vote on such matters, they may be influenced by interests that conflict with our other shareholders. 13 Our stock is thinly traded, so you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all. The shares of our common stock are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Shares of our common stock are thinly traded, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stockbrokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community who generate or influence sales volume. Even in the event that we come to the attention of such persons, they would likely be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we become more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, our stock price may not reflect an actual or perceived value of the business. Also, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer that has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. A broader or more active public trading market for our common shares may not develop or if developed, may not be sustained. Due to these conditions, you may not be able to sell your shares at or near ask prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. We do not presently intend to pay any cash dividends or repurchase any shares of our common stock. We do not presently intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends, and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Cash dividend payments in the future may only be made out of legally available funds and, if we experience substantial losses, such funds may not be available. In addition, our loan agreement prohibits us from paying dividends, making distributions or payments or redeeming, retiring or purchasing any of our capital stock. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. Risks Related to the CADRA Sale A portion of the purchase price was deferred and we may not receive those payments. A portion of the purchase price, an amount equal to $320,000, was held back by Mentor to secure any indemnification claims under the Asset Purchase Agreement. If indemnification claims are asserted, we may not receive all or any of the $320,000 payable to us. In addition, up to $750,000 of the total purchase price will be based on the revenues generated by the CADRA business during the three-year period following the asset sale. Specifically, the Company will be paid 10% of CADRA revenue generated by Mentor up to the $750,000 maximum. The Company has no obligation subsequent to the transaction date with regard to royalty payments. In March 2014, the Company received the first payment of approximately $44,000 under this deferred arrangement related to the period from the transaction date to January 31, 2014. The Asset Purchase Agreement also allows Mentor to withhold monies due under the Earn-Out Agreement if indemnification claims are asserted. Mentor has broad discretion to operate its post-closing business, and may choose to do so in a manner which may or may not result in the payment of all of the CADRA royalties pursuant to the Earn-Out Agreement. We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements following the closing of the CADRA Sale. After the CADRA Sale, we will continue to be required to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome and will represent an even greater percentage of our expenses post-closing as we will be a significantly smaller company following the sale of the CADRA business. Closure of the office located in Germany Our office located in Germany was focused exclusively on selling and supporting the CADRA product line. During fiscal year 2014, the Company closed this office and ceased operating in that country. We believe we have satisfied all material obligations related to that closure including satisfying all employment related obligations to our former employees, however, the risk of identification of additional liabilities does exist. 14 Buyer is not assuming any of the excluded liabilities under the Asset Purchase Agreement. Under the Asset Purchase Agreement, Mentor is not assuming all of the liabilities associated with the CADRA business. Certain liabilities will remain with the Company post-closing. For example, Mentor is only assuming customer support obligations related to certain assigned contracts and obligations for performance under contracts that arise after the closing, and is not assuming liability for any obligation or breach by the Company occurring or arising prior to the closing. While the Company believes that it has adequately accrued for these liabilities or is adequately insured against certain of the risks associated with such excluded liabilities, there can be no assurances that additional expenditures will not be incurred in resolving these liabilities. The Asset Purchase Agreement may expose us to contingent liabilities. We have agreed to indemnify Mentor for certain breaches of representations, warranties or covenants made by us in the Asset Purchase Agreement up to $3.95 million. Significant indemnification claims by the Mentor could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 