Item 1A. Risk Factors. Alico’s operations involve varying degrees of risk and each investor should consider the specific risks and speculative features inherent in and affecting the business of Alico before investing in Alico. In considering the following risk and speculative factors, an investor should realize that there is a possibility of losing his or her entire investment. Alico’s financial condition and results of operations could be affected by the risk factors discussed below. These factors may also cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements in Management’s Discussion and Analysis. The list of risks below is not intended to be all inclusive. A complete listing of risks is beyond the scope of this document. However, in contemplating the financial position and results of operations of Alico, investors should carefully consider, among other factors, the following risk factors: General Alico has a 51% stockholder and a limited public float which could adversely affect the price of its stock and restrict the ability of the minority shareholders to have a voice in corporate governance. Atlantic Blue Group, Inc. (“Atlanticblue”) (formerly Atlantic Blue Trust, Inc.) is the owner of approximately 51% of Alico’s common stock. Accordingly, Alico’s common stock is thinly traded and its market price may fluctuate significantly more than stocks with a larger public float. Additionally by virtue of its ownership percentage, Atlanticblue is able to elect all the directors, appoint all of the officers and management, and consequently, is deemed to control Alico. While Atlanticblue has issued a governance letter dated December 3, 2009 reaffirming its commitment to maintaining a majority of independent directors on Alico’s Board of Directors, this commitment may be terminated at any time upon 30 days prior written notice. Alico’s Board of Directors and its Committees, establish governance procedures and guidelines designed to attract and retain quality directors. Due to the resignations of two directors, directors independent of Atlanticblue (non-affiliated directors) did not constitute a majority throughout most of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. In October 2010, a fifth non-affiliated director was appointed reestablishing a majority of non-affiliated independent directors. Alico does not have cumulative voting. Accordingly, stockholders of Alico other than Atlanticblue have no effective control over who the management and directors of Alico are or will be. Alico manages its properties in an attempt to capture its highest and best use and customarily does not sell property until it determines that the property is surplus to its agricultural activities by reason of its potential for industrial, commercial or residential use. Alico has little control over when this occurs as real estate sales are primarily market driven. Alico’s goal for its land management program is to manage and selectively improve its lands for their most profitable use. To this end, Alico continually evaluates its properties focusing on location, soil capabilities, subsurface composition, topography, transportation, availability of markets for its crops and the climatic characteristics of each of the tracts. While Alico is primarily engaged in agricultural activities, when land is determined to be better suited to industrial, commercial or residential use, Alico has classified the property as surplus to its agricultural activities and has placed the property for sale. Alico’s land management strategy is thus a long term strategy to acquire, hold and manage land for its best use, selling surplus land at opportune times and in a manner that would maximize Alico’s profits from such surplus tracts. The timing for when agricultural lands become best suited for industrial, commercial or residential use depends upon a number of factors which are beyond the control of Alico such as: • population migration; 6 Table of Contents • national, regional and local economic conditions; • conditions in local real estate markets (e.g., supply of land versus demand); • competition from other available property; • current level of, or potential availability of roads and utilities; • availability of governmental entitlements; • government regulation and changes in real estate, zoning, land use, environmental or tax laws; • interest rates and the availability of financing, and; • potential liability under environmental and other laws. Alico is not able to predict when its properties will become best suited for non-agricultural use and has limited ability to influence this process. Additionally, changes from time to time in any or a combination of these factors could result in delays in sales opportunities. Alico’s ability to sell tracts which are determined to be surplus or its ability to realize optimum pricing from such sales is thus highly speculative. Alico is subject to environmental liability by virtue of owning significant holdings of real estate assets. Alico faces a potential for environmental liability by virtue of its ownership of real property. If hazardous substances (including herbicides and pesticides used by Alico or by any persons leasing Alico’s lands) are discovered on or emanating from any of Alico’s lands and the release of such substances presents a threat of harm to the public health or the environment, Alico may be held strictly liable for the cost of remediation of these hazardous substances. In addition, environmental laws that apply to a given site can vary greatly according to the site’s location, its present and former uses, and other factors such as the presence of wetlands or endangered species on the site. Alico’s management monitors environmental legislation and requirements and makes every effort to remain in compliance with such regulations. Furthermore, Alico requires lessees of its properties to comply with environmental regulations as a condition of leasing. Alico also purchases insurance when it is available for environmental liability; however, these insurance contracts may not be adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available to Alico at prices and terms that would be satisfactory. It is possible that in some cases the cost of compliance with these environmental laws could exceed the value of a particular tract of land or be significant enough that it would have a materially adverse effect on Alico. Alico has a large customer that accounts for 23% of revenues. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, Alico’s largest customer accounted for approximately 23% of operating revenue. Alico’s largest customer is U.S. Sugar Corporation (USSC), for whom Alico grows sugarcane. Additionally, Alico sells citrus to Southern Gardens, a wholly owned subsidiary of USSC. These marketing arrangements involve marketing pools which allow the contracting party to market Alico’s product in conjunction with the product of other entities in the pool and pay Alico a proportionate share of the resulting revenue from the sale of the entire pooled product. While Alico believes that it can replace these arrangements with other marketing alternatives, it may not be able to do so quickly and the results may not be as favorable as the current contracts. 7 Table of Contents Alico has drawn significant scrutiny from the Internal Revenue Service Alico has been subject to examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for 18 of its last 20 income tax returns. The Company utilizes a large national accounting firm to prepare its tax returns and reviews the positions taken on such returns quarterly with its accountants and legal counsel; however, the IRS has taken several positions contrary to the Company. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and August 31, 2007, the Company paid a combined total of $75.7 million in additional federal and state taxes, penalties and interest resulting from to a settlement agreement with the IRS for the tax years 2000 – 2004. While the Company will be able to utilize a portion of the taxes paid to offset taxes on future property sales, the IRS is currently examining the Company’s tax returns for the 2005 – 2007 tax years. The Company believes that it has taken the proper positions on the tax returns currently under examination; however, the IRS issued thirty day letters dated September 9, 2010 and October 28, 2010, demanding payment of $22.5 million for taxes and penalties related to positions that the IRS contends were inappropriately taken. These reports propose changes to the Company’s tax liabilities for each of these tax years and require the Company either to agree with the changes and remit the specified taxes and penalties, or to submit a rebuttal. While the IRS notices did not specify interest related to the additional taxes, the Company has estimated potential Federal interest at approximately $4.9 million. If the IRS were to prevail on all of its positions, it would also result in additional State taxes of $2.5 million and interest of $844 thousand. Alico is appealing the issues contained in these letters and believes that the positions taken by Alico and its subsidiaries were correct; however, an adverse outcome could cause a breach of the Company’s loan agreements and have a significant material adverse effect on Alico’s operations, financial condition and liquidity. For further information regarding the ongoing IRS examinations, please refer to Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant employee turnover could cause unwanted volatility The Company has experienced significant turnover in Board and Management positions during the past several years. The Company seeks to mitigate the impacts of turnover by establishing minimum requirements for each position and through its interview processes. While the Company believes that it has retained experienced and qualified replacements, interruptions in the development and execution of the Company’s business plans, lack of familiarity with the design and execution of surrounding internal control systems, and the familiarity with the Company’s operations might cause the Company to experience problems in these areas which could result in adverse effects for Alico. Furthermore, the Company’s accounting department is small. The loss of any two key employees in close time proximity to each other could result in a possible compromise of the internal control systems or the ability to accurately report financial results in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Furthermore, Alico’s rural location adds an additional challenge for recruiting and retaining qualified personnel. The Company attempts to hire qualified personnel, provide competitive compensation and benefit programs and a pleasant working environment to offset this risk. Agricultural Risks — General Agricultural operations generate a large portion of Alico’s revenues. Agriculture operations are subject to a wide variety of risks including product pricing due to variations in supply and demand, weather, disease, input costs and product liability. Agricultural products are subject to supply and demand pricing which is not predictable. Because Alico’s agricultural products are commodities, Alico is not able to predict with certainty what price it will receive for its products; however, its costs are relatively fixed and the growth cycle of such products in many instances dictates when such products must be marketed which may or may not be advantageous in obtaining the best price. Excessive supplies tend to cause severe price competition and lower prices throughout the industry affected. Conversely, shortages may cause higher prices. Shortages often result from adverse growing conditions which can reduce the available product of growers in affected growing areas while not affecting others in non-affected growing areas. Alico attempts to mitigate these risks by forward pricing mechanisms and contracts. Alico cannot accurately predict or control from year to year what its profits or losses from agricultural operations will be. 8 Table of Contents Alico’s agricultural assets are concentrated and the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes can be magnified. Alico’s agricultural operations are concentrated in south Florida counties with more than 80% of its agricultural lands located in a contiguous parcel in Hendry County. All of these areas are subject to occasional periods of drought, excess rain, flooding, and freeze. Crops require water in different quantities at different times during the growth cycle. Accordingly, too much or too little water at any given point can adversely impact production. While Alico attempts to mitigate controllable weather risks through water management and crop selection, its ability to do so is limited. Alico’s operations in southern and central Florida are also subject to the risk of hurricanes. Hurricanes have the potential to destroy crops, affect cattle breeding and impact citrus production through the loss of fruit and destruction of trees either as a result of high winds or through the spread of wind blown disease. Alico was impacted by hurricanes during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 and sustained losses relating to the storms during all three of those fiscal years. Alico seeks to minimize hurricane risk by the purchase of insurance contracts, but a portion of Alico’s crops remain uninsured. Because Alico’s agricultural properties are located in relative close proximity to each other, the impact of adverse weather conditions may be magnified in Alico’s results of operations. Alico’s agricultural earnings comprise a major portion of its revenues and are subject to wide volatility which could result in breaches of loan covenants. Borrowing capacity represents a major source of Alico’s working capital. Alico currently has a Revolving Line of Credit (RLOC) and a Term Loan with Rabobank, N.A. Both of these loans contain covenants requiring the Company to maintain a minimum current ratio of 2.0:1, a debt ratio no greater than 60%, tangible stockholder equity of at least $80 million, and a minimum debt coverage ratio of 1.15:1. While Alico currently expects to remain within these covenants, because of the volatility of its earnings stream and the factors causing this volatility, Alico is unable in some instances, to directly control compliance with these covenants. In March 2010, Alico received a one time waiver of the debt coverage ratio requirement from its previous lender, Farm Credit of Southwest Florida, in response to a freeze which damaged crops and affected the timing of their harvest. The Company believes that, based on factors currently known, it will continue to remain in compliance with its covenants for the next several years. The Company has recently negotiated a relaxed debt coverage ratio covenant to provide that the covenant must be breached in two consecutive years in order to be considered an event of default. Nevertheless, due to earnings volatility and factors unknown to the Company at this time, it is possible that a loan covenant could be breached, a default occur, and the major portion of the Company’s borrowings become due which could have a material adverse impact on Alico’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Water Use Regulation restricts Alico’s access to water for agricultural use. Alico’s agricultural operations are dependent upon the availability of adequate surface and underground water needed to produce its crops. The availability of water for use in irrigation is regulated by the State of Florida through water management districts which have jurisdiction over various geographic regions in which Alico’s lands are located. Currently, Alico has permits for the use of underground and surface water which are adequate for its agricultural needs. Surface water in Hendry County, where much of Alico’s agricultural land is located, comes from Lake Okeechobee via the Caloosahatchee River and the system of canals used to irrigate such land. The Army Corps of Engineers controls the level of Lake Okeechobee and ultimately determines the availability of surface water even though the use of water has been permitted by the State of Florida through the water management district. Recently the Army Corps of Engineers decided to lower the permissible level of Lake Okeechobee in response to concerns about the ability of the levees surrounding the lake to restrain rising waters which could result from hurricanes. Changes in permitting for underground or surface water use during times of drought, because of lower lake levels, may result in shortages of water for agricultural use by Alico and could have a materially adverse effect on Alico’s agricultural operations and financial results. 9 Table of Contents Alico’s citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from disease including but not limited to Citrus Canker and Citrus Greening diseases. Alico’s citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from diseases such as Citrus Canker and Citrus Greening. Each of these diseases is widespread in Florida and Alico has found instances of Citrus Canker and/or Citrus Greening in several of its groves. Both diseases exist in areas where Company groves are located. There is no known cure for Citrus Canker at the present time although some pesticides inhibit the development of the disease. The disease is spread by contact with infected trees or by wind blown transmission. Alico’s policy is to destroy trees which become infected with this disease or with Citrus Greening disease. Alico maintains an inspection program to discover infestations early and utilizes best management practices to attempt to control diseases and their dissemination. Citrus Greening destroys infected trees and is spread by psyllids. Alico utilizes a pesticide program to control these hosts. At the present time, there is no known pesticide or other treatment for Citrus Greening once trees are infected. Both of these diseases pose a significant threat to the Florida Citrus industry and to Alico’s citrus groves. Wide spread dissemination of these diseases in Alico’s groves could cause a material adverse effect to Alico’s operating results and citrus grove assets. Pesticide and herbicide use by Alico or its lessees could create liability for Alico. Alico and some of the parties to whom Alico leases land for agricultural purposes, use herbicides, pesticides and other hazardous substances in the operation of their businesses. All pesticides and herbicides used by Alico have been approved for use by the proper governmental agencies with the hazards attributable to each substance appropriately labeled and described. Alico maintains policies requiring its employees to apply such chemicals strictly in accordance with the labeling. As a term of its leasing agreements, Alico requires that third parties also adhere to proper handling and disposal of such materials; however, Alico does not have full knowledge or control over the chemicals used by third parties who lease Alico’s lands for cultivation. It is possible that some of these herbicides and pesticides could be harmful to humans if used improperly, or that there may be unknown hazards associated with such chemicals despite any contrary government or manufacturer labels. Alico might have to pay the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental release or the use or misuse of such substances. Which could have a materially adverse affect to Alico. Changes in immigration laws or enforcement of such laws could impact the ability of Alico to harvest its crops. Alico engages third parties to provide personnel for its harvesting operations. Alico communicates to such third parties its policy of employing only workers approved to work in the United States. However, Alico does not specifically monitor such compliance and the personnel engaged by such third parties could be from pools composed of immigrant labor. The availability and number of such workers is subject to decrease if there are changes in the U.S. immigration laws or by stricter enforcement of such laws. The scarcity of available personnel to harvest Alico’s agricultural products could cause Alico’s harvesting costs to increase or could lead to the loss of product that is not timely harvested which could have a materially adverse effect upon Alico. Changing public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks of Alico’s agricultural products can affect demand and pricing of such products. The general public’s perception regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food crops Alico grows and sells could reduce demand and prices for some of Alico’s products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products Alico produces for health or other reasons, and Alico is unable to modify its products or to develop products that satisfy new customer preferences, there could be decreased demand for Alico’s products. Even if market prices are unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be or have been harvested must be brought to market. Additionally, Alico has significant investments in its citrus groves and cannot easily shift to alternative products for this land. A decrease in the selling price received for Alico’s products due to the factors described above could have a materially adverse effect on Alico. 10 Table of Contents Alico faces significant competition in its agricultural operations. Alico faces significant competition in its agricultural operations both from domestic and foreign producers and does not have any branded products. Foreign growers generally have a lower cost of production, less environmental regulation and in some instances greater resources and market flexibility than Alico. Because foreign growers have great flexibility as to when they enter the U.S. market, Alico cannot always predict the impact these competitors will have on its business and results of operations. The competition Alico faces from foreign suppliers of sugar and orange juice is mitigated by quota restriction on sugar imports imposed by the U.S. government and by a governmentally imposed tariff on U.S. orange imports. A change in the government’s sugar policy allowing more imports or a reduction in the U.S. orange juice tariff could adversely impact Alico’s results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 11 Table of Contents 