Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our operations involve varying degrees of risk and each investor should consider the specific risks and speculative features inherent in and affecting our business before investing in Alico. In considering the following risk and speculative factors, an investor should realize that there is a possibility of losing the entire investment. Our financial condition and results of operations could be affected by the risk factors discussed below. These factors may also cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The list of risks below is not intended to be all inclusive. A complete listing of risks is beyond the scope of this document. However, in contemplating the financial position and results of operations, investors should carefully consider, among other factors, the following risk factors: General Alico has a 51% stockholder and a limited public float which could adversely affect the price of its stock and restrict the ability of the minority shareholders to have a voice in corporate governance. Atlantic Blue Group, Inc. (“Atlanticblue”) (formerly Atlantic Blue Trust, Inc.) is the owner of approximately 51% of Alico’s common stock. Accordingly, our common stock is thinly traded and its market price may fluctuate significantly more than stocks with a larger public float. Additionally, by virtue of its ownership percentage, Atlanticblue is able to elect all the directors, appoint all of the officers and management, and, consequently, is considered to control Alico. While Atlanticblue has issued a governance letter dated December 3, 2009 reaffirming its commitment to maintaining a majority of independent directors on Alico’s Board of Directors, this commitment may be terminated at any time upon 30 days prior written notice. Alico’s Board of Directors and its Committees establish governance procedures and guidelines designed to attract and retain quality directors. Due to the resignations of two directors in 2010, directors independent of Atlanticblue (non-affiliated directors) did not constitute a majority throughout most of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. In October 2010, a fifth non-affiliated director was appointed reestablishing a majority of non-affiliated independent directors. Alico does not have cumulative voting. Accordingly, stockholders of Alico, other than Atlanticblue, have no effective control over who the management and directors of Alico are or will be. Alico has drawn significant scrutiny from the Internal Revenue Service Our tax returns have been subject to frequent examinations by the IRS. We use a large national accounting firm to prepare our tax returns, and we review the positions taken on such returns quarterly with our accountants and legal counsel; however, the IRS has taken several positions contrary to ours. The IRS examined our tax returns for the 2005 through 2007 tax years. The IRS principally challenged (i) Agri-Insurance’s ability to elect to be treated as a United States taxpayer during the years under examination; and (ii) Alico-Agri’s ability to recognize income from two real estate sales under the installment method by asserting that Alico-Agri was a dealer in real estate during the years under examination. The IRS claimed additional taxes and penalties due of $31.1 million consisting of $14.5 million in taxes and $16.6 million in penalties but did not quantify the interest on the taxes. We contested the positions taken by the IRS and pursued resolution through the IRS Appeals process. On November 22, 2011, we reached an agreement in principle to settle the issues. The settlement provides that Agri-Insurance was eligible to elect to be treated as a United States taxpayer. No determination was made as to whether Alico or Alico-Agri was a dealer in real estate; however, for the two sales transactions at issue, we agreed to treat one-third of the taxable gain as ordinary income taxable in the year of sale with the remaining two-thirds treated as capital gain eligible for installment sale treatment. Federal and state taxes and interest due as a result of the settlement are estimated at approximately $0.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively and have been accrued at September 30, 2011. Federal penalties of $15.3 million were considered by Appeals and have been waived. The remaining $1.3 million in penalties have not yet been considered by Appeals to date but waiver of these penalties would be consistent with the issues resolved in the settlement. The settlement does not preclude Alico from using the installment sale method with respect to future transactions. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings, Note 12. Income Taxes and Note 18. Subsequent Events in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Table of Contents Alico has a large customer that accounts for 28% of revenues. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, Alico’s largest customer accounted for approximately 28% of operating revenue. Our largest customer is USSC, to whom we produce sugarcane. Additionally, we sell citrus to Southern Gardens, a wholly owned subsidiary of USSC. While Alico believes that it can replace these arrangements with other marketing alternatives, it may not be able to do so quickly and the results may not be as favorable as the current contracts. Alico manages its properties in an attempt to capture its highest and best use and customarily does not sell property until it determines that the property is surplus to its agricultural activities or has greater potential for industrial, commercial or residential use. Alico has little control over the timing of real estate sales as they are primarily market driven. The goal for our land management program is to manage and selectively improve our lands for their most profitable use. To this end, we continually evaluate our properties focusing on location, soil capabilities, subsurface composition, topography, transportation, availability of markets for its crops and the climatic characteristics of each of the tracts. While we are primarily engaged in agricultural activities, when land is determined to be better suited for industrial, commercial or residential use, Alico may classify the property as surplus to its agricultural activities and place the property for sale. Our land management strategy is thus a long term strategy to acquire, hold and manage land for its best use, selling surplus land at opportune times and in a manner that would maximize our profits from such surplus tracts. The timing for when agricultural lands become best suited for industrial, commercial or residential use depends upon a number of factors which are beyond our control such as: • population migration; • national, regional and local economic conditions; • conditions in local real estate markets (e.g., supply of land versus demand); • competition from other available property; • current level or potential availability of roads and utilities; • availability of governmental entitlements; • government regulation and changes in real estate, zoning, land use, environmental or tax laws; • interest rates and the availability of financing, and; • potential liability under environmental and other laws. Alico is not able to predict when its properties will become best suited for non-agricultural use and has limited ability to influence this process. Additionally, changes from time to time in any or a combination of these factors could result in delays in sales opportunities. Alico’s ability to sell tracts which are determined to be surplus or its ability to realize optimum pricing from such sales is therefore uncertain. 7 Table of Contents Alico is subject to environmental liability by virtue of owning significant holdings of real estate assets. We face a potential for environmental liability by virtue of our ownership of real property. If hazardous substances (including herbicides and pesticides used by us or by any persons leasing our lands) are discovered on or emanating from any of our lands and the release of such substances presents a threat of harm to the public health or the environment, we may be held strictly liable for the cost of remediation of these hazardous substances. In addition, environmental laws that apply to a given site can vary greatly according to the site’s location, its present and former uses, and other factors such as the presence of wetlands or endangered species on the site. Management monitors environmental legislation and requirements and makes every effort to remain in compliance with such regulations. Furthermore, Alico requires lessees of its properties to comply with environmental regulations as a condition of leasing. We also purchase insurance for environmental liability when it is available; however, these insurance contracts may not be adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available to us at prices and terms that would be satisfactory. It is possible that in some cases the cost of compliance with these environmental laws could exceed the value of a particular tract of land or be significant enough that it would have a materially adverse effect on us. Significant employee turnover could cause unwanted volatility We have experienced significant turnover in Board and Management positions during the past several years. We seek to mitigate the impacts of turnover by establishing minimum requirements for each position and through the interview process. We attempt to hire qualified personnel and provide competitive compensation, benefit programs and a pleasant working environment to offset this risk. While we believe that we have retained experienced and qualified replacements, interruptions in the development and execution of our business plans, lack of familiarity with the design and execution of surrounding internal control systems and our operations might cause us to experience difficulties in these areas which could have a material adverse effect. Agricultural Risks — General Agricultural operations provide the majority of our operating revenues. Agriculture operations are subject to a wide variety of risks including product pricing due to variations in supply and demand, weather, disease, input costs and product liability. Agricultural products are subject to supply and demand pricing which is not predictable. Because our agricultural products are commodities with fluctuating market values, we are not able to predict with certainty what prices we will receive for our products; however, the costs are relatively fixed and the growth cycle of such products in many instances dictates when such products must be marketed which may or may not be advantageous in obtaining the best price. Excessive supplies tend to cause severe price competition and lower prices for the commodity affected. Conversely, shortages may cause higher prices. Shortages often result from adverse growing conditions which can reduce the available product in affected growing areas while not affecting others in non-affected growing areas. Alico attempts to mitigate these risks by using contracts with citrus processors that include pricing structures based on a minimum (“floor”) price and with a price increase (“rise”) if market conditions exceed the floor price. We cannot accurately predict or control what our profits or losses from agricultural operations will be from year-to-year. Alico’s agricultural assets are concentrated and the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes can be magnified. Our agricultural operations are concentrated in counties in south Florida with more than 80% of our agricultural lands located in a contiguous parcel in Hendry County. All of these areas are subject to occasional periods of drought, flooding and freeze. Crops require water in different quantities at different times during the growth cycle. Accordingly, too much or too little water at any given point can adversely impact production. While we attempt to mitigate controllable weather risks through water management and crop selection, our ability to do so is limited. Our operations in south and central Florida are also subject to the risk of hurricanes. Hurricanes have the potential to destroy crops, affect cattle breeding and impact citrus and sugarcane production through the loss of fruit and destruction of trees and/or plants either as a result of high winds or through the spread of windblown disease. We were negatively impacted by hurricanes during fiscal years 2005 and 2004 and sustained losses relating to the storms during those two fiscal years. Alico seeks to minimize hurricane risk by the purchase of insurance contracts, but a portion of our crops remains uninsured. Because our agricultural properties are located in relative close proximity to each other, the impact of adverse weather conditions may be material to Alico’s results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Alico’s agricultural earnings comprise a major portion of its revenues and are subject to wide volatility which could result in breaches of loan covenants. Borrowing capacity represents a major source of our working capital. We currently have a credit facility with Rabo AgriFinance, Inc. that includes a Revolving Line of Credit and a Term Loan. These loans are subject to covenants requiring Alico to maintain a minimum current ratio of 2.0:1, a debt ratio no greater than 60%, tangible net worth of at least $80 million, and a minimum debt coverage ratio of 1.15:1. While we currently expect to remain in compliance with these covenants, because of the volatility of our earnings stream and the factors causing this volatility, we are unable to directly control compliance with these covenants. In March 2010, Alico received a one-time waiver of the debt coverage ratio requirement from its previous lender, Farm Credit of Southwest Florida, in response to a freeze which damaged crops and affected the timing of their harvest. We believe that, based on factors currently known, we will continue to remain in compliance with our covenants for the next several years. We negotiated a less restrictive debt coverage ratio covenant to provide that the covenant must be breached in two consecutive years in order to be considered an event of default. Nevertheless, due to earnings volatility and factors unknown to us at this time, it is possible that a loan covenant could be breached, a default occur, and the major portion of our borrowings become due which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Water Use Regulation restricts Alico’s access to water for agricultural use. Our agricultural operations are dependent upon the availability of adequate surface and underground water. The availability of water for use in irrigation is regulated by the State of Florida through water management districts which have jurisdiction over various geographic regions in which our lands are located. Currently, we have permits for the use of underground and surface water which are adequate for our agricultural needs. Surface water in Hendry County, where much of our agricultural land is located, comes from Lake Okeechobee via the Caloosahatchee River and the system of canals used to irrigate such land. The Army Corps of Engineers controls the level of Lake Okeechobee and ultimately determines the availability of surface water even though the use of water has been permitted by the State of Florida through the water management district. The Army Corps of Engineers decided in 2010 to lower the permissible level of Lake Okeechobee in response to concerns about the ability of the levee surrounding the lake to restrain rising waters which could result from hurricanes. Changes in permitting for underground or surface water use during times of drought, because of lower lake levels, may result in shortages of water for agricultural use and could have a materially adverse effect on our agricultural operations and financial results. Alico’s citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from disease including but not limited to Citrus Canker and Citrus Greening Our citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from diseases such as Citrus Canker and Citrus Greening. Each of these diseases is widespread in Florida and exists in areas where our groves are located. Citrus Canker is spread by contact with infected trees or by windblown transmission. There is no known cure for Citrus Canker at the present time although some management practices can mitigate its spread and lessen its effect on infected trees; however, there is no assurance that available technologies to control such disease will be effective. Citrus Greening decreases the productivity of infected trees and is spread by insects known as Asian Citrus Psyillids. Alico uses a pesticide program to control these vectors and an enhanced foliar nutritional program to mitigate the damage to infected trees. At the present time, there is no known cure for Citrus Greening once trees are infected. We use best management practices to attempt to control diseases and their spread. Both of these diseases pose a significant threat to the Florida Citrus industry and to our citrus groves. We are managing the affects and the spread of these diseases in our groves which, left unmanaged, could cause a material adverse effect to our citrus grove operations, financial position and results of operations. Use of pesticides and herbicides and other materials by Alico or its lessees could create liability for Alico. Alico and some of the parties to whom we lease land for agricultural purposes use herbicides, pesticides and other hazardous substances in the operation of their businesses. All pesticides and herbicides used by us have been approved for use by the proper governmental agencies with the hazards attributable to each substance appropriately labeled and described. We maintain policies requiring our employees to apply such chemicals strictly in accordance with the labeling. As a condition of our leasing agreements, we require that third parties also adhere to proper handling and disposal of such 9 Table of Contents materials; however, we do not have full knowledge or control over the chemicals used by third parties who lease our lands for cultivation. It is possible that some of these herbicides and pesticides could be harmful to humans if used improperly or that there may be unknown hazards associated with such chemicals despite any contrary government or manufacturer labels. We might have to pay the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental release or the use or misuse of such substances, which could have a materially adverse effect. Changes in immigration laws or enforcement of such laws could impact the ability of Alico to harvest its crops. We engage third parties to provide personnel for our harvesting operations. The availability and number of such workers is subject to decrease if there are changes in the U.S. immigration laws or by stricter enforcement of such laws. The scarcity of available personnel to harvest our agricultural products could cause harvesting costs to increase or could lead to the loss of product that is not timely harvested which could have a materially adverse effect. Changing public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks of Alico’s agricultural products can affect demand and pricing of such products. The general public’s perception regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food crops we grow and sell could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or develop products that satisfy new customer preferences, there could be decreased demand for our products. Even if market prices are unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be or have been harvested must be brought to market. Additionally, we have significant investments in our citrus groves and sugarcane fields and cannot easily shift to alternative crops for this land. A decrease in the selling price received for our products due to the factors described above could have a materially adverse effect on Alico. Alico faces significant competition in its agricultural operations. Alico faces significant competition in its agricultural operations both from domestic and foreign producers and does not have any branded products. Foreign growers generally have an equal or lower cost of production, less environmental regulation and in some instances, greater resources and market flexibility than Alico. Because foreign growers have great flexibility as to when they enter the U.S. market, we cannot always predict the impact these competitors will have on our business and results of operations. The competition we face from foreign suppliers of sugar and orange juice is mitigated by quota restrictions on sugar imports imposed by the U.S. government and by a governmentally imposed tariff on orange imports. A change in the government’s sugar policy allowing more imports or a reduction in the orange juice tariff could adversely impact our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 10 Table of Contents 