Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s operations involve varying degrees of risk and each investor should consider the specific risks and speculative features inherent in and affecting the business of the Company before investing in the Company. In considering the following risk and speculative factors, an investor should realize that there is a possibility of losing his or her entire investment. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be affected by the risk factors discussed below. These factors may also cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements in Management’s Discussion and Analysis. The list of risks below is not intended to be all inclusive. A complete listing of risks is beyond the scope of this document. However, in contemplating the financial position and results of operations of the Company, investors should carefully consider, among other factors, the following risk factors: General The Company has not fully settled its appeal with the IRS. The Company has been in negotiations with IRS Appeals regarding a thirty day letter issued by the IRS pertaining to audits of Alico and its Agri Insurance subsidiary for the tax years 2000 through 2004. As a result of the negotiations, the Company has paid a total of $66.2 million, representing $41.4 million of additional taxes, $20.7 million of interest, and $4.1 million of penalties. The Company does not believe that any additional payments will be required to settle the matter with the IRS and has submitted a closing agreement to IRS Appeals; however, IRS Appeals has not yet executed the closing agreement and could take a position requiring the Company to remit additional funds. 9 Table of Contents The Company has a 50.5% stockholder and a limited public float which could adversely affect the price of its stock and restrict the ability of the minority shareholders to have a voice in corporate governance. Atlantic Blue Group, Inc. (Atlanticblue) (formerly Atlantic Blue Trust, Inc.) is the owner of approximately 50.5% of the Company’s common stock. Accordingly, the Company’s common stock is thinly traded and its market price may fluctuate significantly more than stocks with a larger public float. Additionally by virtue of its ownership percentage, Atlanticblue is able to elect all directors and, consequently, is deemed to control the Company. While Atlanticblue has issued a governance letter dated September 29, 2006 reaffirming its commitment to maintaining a majority of independent directors on Alico’s Board of Directors, this commitment may be terminated at any time upon 30 days prior written notice. The Company does not have cumulative voting. Accordingly, stockholders of the Company other than Atlanticblue have no effective control over who the management and directors of the Company are or will be. The Company manages its properties in an attempt to capture its highest and best use and customarily does not sell property until it determines that the property is surplus to its agricultural activities by reason of its potential for industrial, commercial or residential use. The Company has little control over when this occurs as real estate sales are primarily market driven. The Company’s goal for its land management program is to manage and selectively improve its lands for their most profitable use. To this end, the Company continually evaluates its properties focusing on soil capabilities, subsurface composition, topography, transportation, availability of markets for its crops and the climatic characteristics of each of the tracts. While the Company is primarily engaged in agricultural activities, when land is determined to be better suited to industrial, commercial or residential use, the Company has classified the property as surplus to its agricultural activities and sold it. The Company’s land management strategy is thus a long term strategy to acquire, hold and manage land for its best use, selling surplus land at opportune times and in a manner that would maximize the Company’s profits from such surplus tracts. The timing for when agricultural lands become best suited for industrial, commercial or residential use depends upon a number of factors which are beyond the control of the Company such as: • population migration; • national, regional and local economic conditions; • conditions in local real estate markets (e.g., supply of land verses demand); • competition from other available property; • current level of, or potential availability of roads and utilities; • availability of governmental entitlements; • government regulation and changes in real estate, zoning, land use, environmental or tax laws; • interest rates and the availability of financing, and; • potential liability under environmental and other laws. The Company is not able to predict when its properties will become best suited for non-agricultural use and has limited ability to influence this process. Additionally, changes from time to time in any or a combination of these factors could result in delays in sales, the Company’s ability to sell tracts which are determined to be surplus or its ability to realize optimum pricing from such sales. 10 Table of Contents The Company carries large receivables from seller-financed sales of large tracts of surplus land the collectibility of which is subject to credit risk relating to debtors. The Company’s sale of surplus lands often involves buyer financing provided by the Company. In addition to the cash deposit paid by a buyer of surplus land, the Company at times takes a mortgage for the unpaid balance of the purchase price of the land sales contract. The collectibility of the amounts owed and the likelihood that the Company will achieve the profitability promised by any sales contract is dependent on the creditworthiness of the mortgagors, which often depends upon their continued financial success. The purchasers of the surplus tracts are often developers, whose success is in turn directly affected by multiple factors in the national and local real estate markets, including but not limited to interest rates, demand for housing, competition from other available land, and unanticipated costs of construction. Depending on the magnitude of its debt to the Company, a mortgagor’s default on a sales contract or the bankruptcy of any material purchaser of surplus land could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. The Company is subject to environmental liability by virtue of owning significant holdings of real estate assets. The Company faces a potential for environmental liability by virtue of its ownership of real property. If hazardous substances (including herbicides and pesticides used by the Company or by any persons leasing the Company’s lands) are discovered on or emanating from any of the Company’s lands and the release of such substances presents a threat of harm to the public health or the environment, the Company may be held strictly liable for the cost of remediation of these hazardous substances. In addition, environmental laws that apply to a given site can vary greatly according to the site’s location, its present and former uses, and other factors such as the presence of wetlands or endangered species on the site. Although the Company purchases insurance when it is available for environmental liability, these insurance contracts may not be adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available to the Company at prices and terms that would be satisfactory. It is possible that in some cases the cost of compliance with these environmental laws could exceed the value of a particular tract of land or be significant enough that it would have a materially adverse effect on the Company. The Company has three large customers that account for 46% of revenues. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2007, the Company’s three largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of operating revenues, with its largest customer accounting for 21% of operating revenue. The Company’s largest customer is U.S. Sugar, for whom the Company grows raw sugarcane. Additionally, the Company sells citrus to Southern Gardens, a wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. Sugar. The balance of the sales concentration is attributable to citrus contracts with Tropicana (a subsidiary of PepsiCo) and Ben Hill Griffin, Inc. These marketing arrangements involve marketing pools which allow the contracting party to market the Company’s product in conjunction with the product of other entities in the pool and pay the Company a proportionate share of the resulting revenue from the sale of the entire pooled product. While the Company believes that it can replace these arrangements with other marketing alternatives, it may not be able to do so quickly and the results may not be as favorable as the current contracts. Agricultural Risks — General Agricultural operations generate a large portion of the Company’s revenues. Agriculture operations are subject to a wide variety of risks including product pricing due to variations in supply and demand, weather, disease, input costs and product liability. 11 Table of Contents Agricultural products are subject to supply and demand pricing which is not predictable. Because the Company’s agricultural products are commodities, the Company is not able to predict with certainty what price it will receive for its products; however, its costs are relatively fixed. Additionally, the growth cycle of such products in many instances dictates when such products must be marketed which may or may not be advantageous in obtaining the best price. Excessive supplies tend to cause severe price competition and lower prices throughout the industry affected. Conversely, shortages may cause higher prices. Shortages often result from adverse growing conditions which can reduce available product of growers in affected growing areas while not affecting others in non-affected growing areas. Since multiple variables which can affect pricing are incurred before pricing and supply are known, the Company cannot accurately predict or control from year to year what its profits or losses from agricultural operations will be. The Company’s agricultural assets are concentrated and the effects of adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes can be exaggerated. The Company’s agricultural operations are concentrated in south Florida counties with more than 80% of its agricultural lands located at Alico Ranch in Hendry County. All of these areas are subject to occasional periods of drought, excess rain, flooding, and freeze. Crops require water in different quantities at different times during the growth cycle. Accordingly, too much or too little water at any given point can adversely impact production. While the Company attempts to mitigate controllable weather risks through water management and crop selection, its ability to do so is limited. The Company’s operations in south and central Florida are also subject to the risk of hurricanes. Hurricanes have the potential to destroy crops and impact citrus production through the loss of fruit and destruction of trees either as a result of high winds or through the spread of wind blown disease. The Company was impacted by hurricanes during fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 and sustained losses relating to the storms during all three fiscal years. The Company seeks to minimize hurricane risk by the purchase of insurance contracts, but a portion of the Company’s crops remain uninsured. Because the Company’s agricultural properties are located in relative close proximity to each other, the impact of adverse weather conditions may be magnified in the Company’s results of operations. Water Use Regulation restricts the Company’s access to water for agricultural use. The Company’s agricultural operations are dependent upon the availability of adequate surface and underground water needed to produce its crops. The availability of water for use in irrigation is regulated by the State of Florida through water management districts which have jurisdiction over various geographic regions in which the Company’s lands are located. Currently, the Company has permits for the use of underground and surface water which are adequate for its agricultural needs. Surface water in Hendry County, where much of the Company’s agricultural land is located, comes from Lake Okeechobee via the Caloosahatchee River and the system of canals used to irrigate such land. Since the Army Corps of Engineers controls the level of Lake Okeechobee, this organization ultimately determines the availability of surface water even though the use of water has been permitted by the State of Florida through the water management district. Recently the Army Corps of Engineers decided to lower the permissible level of Lake Okeechobee in response to concerns about the ability of the levees surrounding the lake to restrain rising waters which could result from hurricanes. Changes in permitting for underground or surface water use during times of drought, because of lower lake levels, may result in shortages of water for agricultural use by the Company and could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s agricultural operations and financial results. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from disease including but not limited to citrus canker and citrus greening diseases. The Company’s citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from diseases such as Citrus Canker and Citrus Greening. Each of these diseases are widespread in Florida and the Company has found instances of Citrus Canker and/or Citrus Greening in several of its groves. Both diseases are present in areas where Company groves are located. There is no known cure for Citrus Canker at the present time although some pesticides inhibit the development of the disease. The disease is spread by contact with infected trees or by wind blown transmission. The Company’s policy is to destroy trees which become infected with this disease or with Citrus Greening disease. The Company maintains an inspection program to discover infestations early. Citrus Greening destroys infected trees and is spread by psyllids. The Company utilizes a pesticide program to control these hosts. There is no known pesticide or other treatment for Citrus Greening once trees are infected at the present time. Both of these diseases pose a significant threat to the Florida Citrus industry and to the Company’s citrus groves. Wide spread dissemination of these diseases in the Company’s groves could cause a material adverse effect to the Company’s operating results and citrus grove assets. Pesticide and herbicide use by the Company or its lessees could create liability for the Company. The Company and some of the parties to whom the Company leases land for agricultural purposes, use herbicides, pesticides and other hazardous substances in the operation of their businesses. All pesticides and herbicides used by the Company have been approved for use by the proper governmental agencies with the hazards attributable to each substance appropriately labeled and described. The Company applies such chemicals strictly in accordance with the labeling. However, the Company does not have any knowledge or control over the chemicals used by third parties who lease the Company’s lands for cultivation. It is possible that some of these herbicides and pesticides could be harmful to humans if used improperly, or that there may be unknown hazards associated with such chemicals despite any contrary government or manufacturer labels. The Company might have to pay the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental release or the use or misuse of such substances. Changes in immigration laws or enforcement of such laws could impact the ability of the Company to harvest its crops. The Company engages third parties to provide personnel for its harvesting operations. The personnel engaged by such companies typically come from pools composed of immigrant labor. The availability and number of such workers is subject to decrease if there are changes in the U.S. immigration laws or by stricter enforcement of such laws. The scarcity of available personnel to harvest the Company’s agricultural products could cause the Company’s harvesting costs to increase or could lead to the loss of product that is not timely harvested which could have a materially adverse effect upon the Company. Changing public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks of our agricultural products can affect demand and pricing of such products. The general public’s perception regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food crops the Company grows and sells could reduce demand and prices for some of the Company’s products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products the Company produces for health or other reasons, and the Company is unable to modify its products or to develop products that satisfy new customer preferences, there could be decreased demand for the Company’s products. Even if market prices are unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be or have been harvested must be brought to market. Additionally, the Company has significant investments in its citrus groves and cannot easily shift to alternative products for this land. A decrease in the selling price received for the Company’s products due to the factors described above could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. 13 Table of Contents The Company faces significant competition in its agricultural operations. The Company faces significant competition in its agricultural operations both from domestic and foreign producers and does not have any branded products. Foreign growers generally have lower cost of production, less environmental regulation and in some instances greater resources and market flexibility than the Company. Because foreign growers have great flexibility as to when they enter the U. S. market, the Company cannot always predict the impact these competitors will have on its business and results of operations. The competition the Company faces from foreign suppliers of sugar and orange juice is mitigated by quota restriction on sugar imports imposed by the U. S. government and by a governmentally imposed tariff on U. S. orange imports. A change in the government’s sugar policy allowing more imports or a reduction in the U.S. orange juice tariff would adversely impact the Company and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 