ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained herein as well as the information included in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, other than those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business We Have a History Of Losses Which May Continue, and Which May Negatively Impact Our Ability to Achieve Our Business Objectives. We incurred net losses of $14,662,555 and $12,176,826 for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We also incurred net losses attributable to common shareholders of $17,865,461 and $12,176,826 for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. There can be no assurance that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to continue expansion of our revenue. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on us. We do not have sufficient revenues to fund our current operations. The Company’s operating subsidiary, UHC Petroleum does not earn enough money from our oil and gas sales to pay its operating expenses or those expenses attributable to the Company’s corporate overhead. Due to our substantial losses and our working capital deficit, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. If we do not obtain additional capital, we will be required to severely curtail, or to completely cease operations. There is no assurance that such additional capital will be available or will be available on acceptable terms. Our independent auditor has included in its report on our financial statements a paragraph stating that we may be unable to continue as a going concern. We have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operations. We sustained a net loss attributable to common shareholders of $17,865,461 for fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. We have an accumulated deficit of $67,984,551. In addition, we have limited capital resources. All of these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements included in this report do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. As noted in an explanatory paragraph in the report of our independent certified public accountants, on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2011 these conditions have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Natural gas and oil drilling is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us. An investment in us should be considered speculative due to the nature of our involvement in the exploration for, and the acquisition, development and production of, oil and natural gas in North America. Oil and gas operations involve many risks, which even a combination of experience and knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. There is no assurance that commercial quantities of oil and natural gas will be discovered or acquired by us. We depend on successful exploration, development and acquisitions to maintain reserves and revenue in the future. Acquisitions of crude oil and natural gas issuers and crude oil and natural gas assets are typically based on engineering and economic assessments made by independent engineers and our own assessments. These assessments will include a series of assumptions regarding such factors as recoverability and marketability of crude oil and natural gas, future prices of crude oil and natural gas and operating costs, future capital expenditures and royalties and other government levies which will be imposed over the producing life of the reserves. Many of these factors are subject to change and are beyond our control. In particular, the prices of and markets for oil and natural gas products may change from those anticipated at the time of making such assessment. In addition, all such assessments involve a measure of geologic and engineering uncertainty that could result in lower production and reserves than anticipated. Initial assessments of acquisitions may be based on reports by a firm of independent engineers that are not the same as the firm that we use for our year-end reserve evaluations. Because each of these firms may have different evaluation methods and approaches, these initial assessments may differ significantly from the assessments of the firm used by us. 10 In addition, our review of records and properties of potential acquisitions may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will we necessarily become sufficiently familiar with the properties before we acquire them to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Environmental problems, such as soil or ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection on a well is undertaken and even when problems are identified, we may often assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties. We have substantial capital requirements that, if not met, may hinder our operations. If we have insufficient revenues, we may have limited ability to expend the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling programs. There can be no assurance that debt or equity financing, or cash generated by operations will be available or sufficient to meet these requirements or for other corporate purposes, or if debt or equity financing is available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, future activities may require us to alter our capitalization significantly. Our inability to access sufficient capital for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Because we are small and have limited access to additional capital, we may have to limit our exploration activity, which may result in a loss of investment. We have a small asset base and limited access to additional capital. Accordingly, we must limit our exploration activity. As such, we may not be able to complete an exploration program that is as thorough as our management would like. In that event, existing reserves may go undiscovered. Without finding reserves, we cannot generate revenues and investors may lose their investment. We must estimate our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from the reserves. These estimates may prove to be inaccurate. This annual report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir and is therefore inherently imprecise. Additionally, our interpretations of the rules governing the estimation of proved reserves could differ from the interpretation of staff members of regulatory authorities resulting in estimates that could be challenged by these authorities. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth in this Annual Report and the information incorporated by reference. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business plan anticipates that we will be able to develop our oil and gas properties. The cost to develop our oil properties is significant, and, to date, we have been unable to do so due to our lack of funds. Unless we can develop our oil properties, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. We believe that our properties have significant reserves of oil. However, we have not had the funds to fully exploit these resources. The costs associated with the development of oil and gas properties, including engineering studies, equipment purchase or leasing and personnel costs, are significant. In order to become profitable we must enhance our oil production, which means that we must drill and/or recomplete more wells. In order to accomplish this, we must find additional sources of capital. There is no assurance that such additional capital will be available or will be available on acceptable terms. Even if we fully develop our oil properties, we may not be profitable. Our inability to operate profitably will adversely affect our business. We have assumed that once we fully develop our oil properties we will be profitable. However, even if we were able to fully develop our properties, there is no guarantee that we would achieve profitability. Our reserves may prove to be lower than expected, production levels may be lower than expected, the costs to exploit the oil may be higher than expected, new regulations may adversely impact our ability to exploit these resources and the market price for crude oil may be lower than current prices. 11 We also face competition from other oil companies in all aspects of our business, including obtaining oil leases, marketing oil, and obtaining goods, services and labor to exploit our resources. Many of our competitors have substantially larger financial and other resources than we have, and we may not be able to successfully compete against them. Competition is also presented by alternative fuel sources, which may be more efficient and less costly and may result in our products becoming less desirable. The development and exploitation of oil properties is subject to many risks that are beyond our control. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our crude oil drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include the following: · that no commercially productive crude oil reservoirs will be found; · that crude oil drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled; and · that our ability to develop, produce and market our reserves may be limited by title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements, and mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in the delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment. We cannot assure you that the new wells we drill, or the wells that are currently in existence, will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in them. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Dry holes and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after drilling, operating and other costs are unprofitable. Our industry also experiences numerous operating risks. These operating risks include the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. If any of these industry operating risks occur, we could sustain substantial losses. Substantial losses also may result from injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. Any of these events could adversely affect our business. We may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks we face. If our insurance coverage is inadequate to pay a claim, we would be responsible for payment. The requirement that we pay a significant claim would materially, adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses in order to protect against the risks we face. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance which we may be required to pay could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Oil and natural gas prices are highly volatile in general and low prices negatively affect our financial results. Our revenue, profitability, cash flow, future growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our properties, are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of oil and natural gas. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and such markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the level of consumer product demand, weather conditions, domestic and foreign governmental regulations, the price and availability of alternative fuels, political conditions, the foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the price of foreign imports and overall economic conditions. While we attempt to mitigate price volatility when we can by acquiring “puts” to protect our prices, we cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for oil or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Government regulation and liability for environmental matters may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations. Furthermore, we may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. We are also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. While the regulations governing our industry have not had a material adverse effect on our operations to date, the implementation of new laws or regulations, or the modification of existing laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on us. Regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions may adversely affect demand for our oil and gas. Climate change has emerged as an important topic in public policy debate regarding our environment. It is a complex issue, with some scientific research suggesting that rising global temperatures are the result of an increase in greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) which may ultimately pose a risk to society and the environment. Products produced by the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry is a source of certain GHGs, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on the combustion of fossil fuels or the venting of natural gas could have a significant impact on our future operations. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Our aggregate reserves will decline as they are produced unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. Our future natural gas and oil production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. Our lack of diversification will increase the risk of an investment in us, and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our current business focus is on the oil and gas industry in a limited number of properties in Texas. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we currently lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the region in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified, enhancing our risk profile. We face strong competition from other oil and gas companies. We encounter competition from other oil and gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major oil and gas companies and numerous independent oil and gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors have been engaged in the oil and gas business much longer than we have and possess substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than us. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory projects and productive oil and gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. Such competitors may also be in a better position to secure oilfield services and equipment on a timely basis or on favorable terms. We may not be able to conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions successfully in this highly competitive environment. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity and financial condition. Current global financial conditions and recent market events have been characterized by increased volatility and the resulting tightening of the credit and capital markets has reduced the amount of available liquidity and overall economic activity. There can be no assurance that debt or equity financing, the ability to borrow funds or cash generated by operations will be available or sufficient to meet or satisfy our initiatives, objectives or requirements. Our inability to access sufficient amounts of capital on terms acceptable to us for our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, liquidity and financial condition. The potential profitability of oil and gas properties depends upon factors beyond our control. The potential profitability of oil and gas properties is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. For instance, world prices and markets for oil and gas are unpredictable, highly volatile, potentially subject to governmental fixing, pegging, controls, or any combination of these and other factors, and respond to changes in domestic, international, political, social, and economic environments. Additionally, due to worldwide economic uncertainty, the availability and cost of funds for production and other expenses have become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to project. These changes and events may materially affect our financial performance. In addition, a productive well may become uneconomic in the event that water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is impregnated with water or other deleterious substances. These factors cannot be accurately predicted and the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. 13 Seasonal weather conditions and other factors could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities. Our operations could be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and wildlife restrictions on federal leases. In some areas, certain drilling and other oil and gas activities can only be conducted during limited times of the year, typically during the summer months. This would limit our ability to operate in these areas and could intensify competition during those times for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect upon us and our results of operations. If we are unable to retain qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in oil and gas exploration, we may not be able to continue our operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our directors and officers and, in particular, Ruben Alba, Chief Operations Officer and Sam Smith, Chief Geologist. Loss of the services of either of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues, and prospective business. We have not and do not expect to obtain key man insurance on our management. In addition, in order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will be dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in the oil and gas exploration business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find, attract and retain existing employees or that we will be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. The marketability of natural resources will be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. The markets and prices for oil and gas depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil and gas, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and gas; · actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; · political conditions and events (including instability or armed conflict) in oil-producing or gas-producing regions; · the level of global and domestic oil and gas inventories; · the price and level of foreign imports; · the level of consumer demand; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the availability of pipeline or other takeaway capacity; · weather conditions; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and · the overall worldwide and domestic economic environment. Significant declines in oil and gas prices for an extended period may have the following effects on our business: · adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; · cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; · reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; and · limit our access to sources of capital. We may have difficulty distributing our oil and gas production, which could harm our financial condition. In order to sell the oil and gas that we are able to produce, we may have to make arrangements for storage and distribution to the market. We will rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of our products, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. This situation could be particularly problematic to the extent that our operations are conducted in remote areas that are difficult to access, such as areas that are distant from shipping and/or pipeline facilities. These factors may affect our ability to explore and develop properties and to store and transport our oil and gas production and may increase our expenses. Furthermore, weather conditions or natural disasters, actions by companies doing business in one or more of the areas in which we will operate, or labor disputes may impair the distribution of oil and/or gas and in turn diminish our financial condition or ability to maintain our operations. 14 CREDIT CONCENTRATION RISK We produce a raw commodity. Currently one purchaser buys 100% of our production. Although we believe that other purchasers are available for our production, this has not yet developed and we are subject to the risk of the purchaser’s solvency relating to outstanding balances. Although the purchaser has historically timely paid and we have no information that would indicate that it would be unable to continue paying in the future, there are no assurances that this will continue. Any disruption in payments from the purchaser would materially and adversely affect our results, business condition and ability to continue as a going concern. Oil and gas operations are subject to comprehensive regulation which may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, causing an adverse effect on us. Oil and gas operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. Oil and gas operations are also subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment. Various permits from government bodies are required for drilling operations to be conducted; no assurance can be given that such permits will be received. Further, hydraulic fracturing, the process used for releasing natural gas from shale rock, has recently come under increased scrutiny and could be the subject of further regulation that could impact the timing and cost of development. Exploration activities are subject to certain environmental regulations which may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of our operations. In general, our exploration activities are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. Such laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our operations or financial condition to date. Specifically, we are subject to legislation regarding emissions into the environment, water discharges and storage and disposition of hazardous wastes. In addition, legislation has been enacted which requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities. However, such laws and regulations are frequently changed and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. Generally, environmental requirements do not appear to affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than other companies in the industry. With the introduction of the Kyoto Protocol, oil and gas producers may be required to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This could result in, among other things, increased operating and capital expenditures for those producers. This could also make certain production of crude oil or natural gas by those producers uneconomic, resulting in reductions in such production. We are not fully insured against all possible environmental risks. Exploratory drilling involves many risks and we may become liable for pollution or other liabilities which may have an adverse effect on our financial position. Drilling operations generally involve a high degree of risk. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, power outages, labor disruptions, blow-outs, sour gas leakage, fire, inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor, and other risks are involved. We may become subject to liability for pollution or hazards against which we cannot adequately insure or for which we may elect not to insure. Incurring any such liability may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operations. Any change in government regulation and/or administrative practices may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and on our profitability. The laws, regulations, policies or current administrative practices of any government body, organization or regulatory agency in the U.S. may be changed, applied or interpreted in a manner which will fundamentally alter our ability to carry on our business. The actions, policies or regulations, or changes thereto, of any government body or regulatory agency, or other special interest groups, may have a detrimental effect on us. Any or all of these situations may have a negative impact on our ability to operate and/or our profitability. 15 No assurance can be given that defects in our title to natural gas and oil interests do not exist. Title to natural gas and oil interests is often not possible to determine without incurring substantial expense. An independent title review was completed with respect to certain of the more valuable natural gas and oil rights acquired by us and the interests in natural gas and oil rights owned by us. Also, legal opinions have been obtained with respect to the spacing units for the wells which have been drilled to date and which have been operated by us. However, no assurance can be given that title defects do not exist. If a title defect does exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of the properties to which the title defect relates. Our actual interest in certain properties may therefore vary from our records. Risks Relating to our Common Stock If we fail to remain current in our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board which would limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. Companies trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, such as us, must be reporting issuers under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and must be current in their reports under Section 13, in order to maintain price quotation privileges on the OTC Bulletin Board. If we fail to remain current on our reporting requirements, we could be removed from the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Some of the factors that could negatively affect such share price include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · liquidity; · sales of common stock by our shareholders; · changes in oil and natural gas prices; · changes in our cash flows from operations or earnings estimates; · publication of research reports about us or the exploration and production industry generally; · increases in market interest rates which may increase our cost of capital; · changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings and enforcement and legal actions; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; · actions by our shareholders; · commencement of or involvement in litigation; · news reports relating to trends, concerns, technological or competitive developments, regulatory changes and other related issues in our industry; · speculation in the press or investment community regarding our business; · general market and economic conditions; and · domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Financial markets have recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of companies and that have, in many cases, been unrelated to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock may decline even if our operating results, underlying asset values or prospects have not changed. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that are deemed to be other than temporary. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock, as we intend to use cash flow generated by operations to develop our business. 16 Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our common stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that (i) has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, or (ii) is not registered on a national securities exchange or listed on an automated quotation system sponsored by a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act requires: · that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · attests that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading, and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative. Current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies and to be available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. We have historically had weak internal controls over financial reporting. We have recently gone through an extensive review of our historical internal controls and financial reporting, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. The evaluation was undertaken in consultation with our accounting personnel. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that, due to the loss of a number of employees, we no longer have the capacity to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms. In management's opinion, based on the assessment completed for the year ended March 31, 2011, the internal control over financial reporting were not operating effectively. Further, in management’s opinion, based on the assessment completed for the year ended March 31, 2011, the disclosure controls and procedures were not operating effectively. There can be no guarantee that the restatements associated with these conclusions will not adversely impact the price of our common stock. Investors may be unable to enforce judgments against us and certain of our directors and officers. Certain of our directors and officers reside principally outside the U.S. Because all or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S., it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or those persons. Furthermore it may not be possible for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the U.S. against us or those persons. 