Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are what we believe to be the principal risks known to us that could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects. General We have a 51% stockholder and a limited public float which could affect the price of our stock and eliminate the ability of the minority shareholders to have effective control over the election of the Board of Directors of the Company. Atlantic Blue Group, Inc. (“Atlanticblue”) (formerly Atlantic Blue Trust, Inc.) is the owner of approximately 51% of Alico’s common stock. Atlanticblue is a nonpublic company, controlled by relatives of JD Alexander, the Chief Executive Officer, and John R. Alexander, Chairman of the Board of Directors, of Alico. Accordingly, our common stock is thinly traded, and its market price may fluctuate significantly more than stocks with a larger public float. Additionally, by virtue of its ownership percentage, Atlanticblue is able to elect all the directors, and, consequently, is considered to control Alico. While Atlanticblue has issued a governance letter dated December 3, 2009 reaffirming its commitment to maintaining a majority of independent directors on Alico’s Board of Directors, this commitment may be terminated at any time upon 30 days prior written notice. Alico’s Board of Directors and its Committees establish governance procedures and guidelines designed to attract and retain qualified directors and management. Due to the resignations of two directors in 2010, directors independent of Atlanticblue (non-affiliated directors) did not constitute a majority throughout most of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. In October 2010, a fifth non-affiliated director was appointed reestablishing a majority of non-affiliated independent directors. Alico does not have cumulative voting. Accordingly, stockholders of Alico, other than Atlanticblue, have no effective control over who the directors of Alico are or will be. We have a major customer that accounts for 100% of our sugarcane production. We have sold 100% of our sugarcane to USSC since the inception of our sugarcane program in 1988 and which revenue accounted for 11% of our total operating revenues in fiscal year 2012. The location of our sugarcane fields relative to the USSC processing plant is favorable and allows for efficient and cost effective delivery of our sugarcane. Alternative plant locations are less favorable, and, as a result, the loss of USSC as a customer could have a material adverse effect on our sugarcane operations, however; we have a purchase agreement with USSC through March 31, 2013, that includes a minimum pricing clause. On March 31, 2013, the purchase agreement will automatically extend for one additional year, unless either party gives written notice of termination by January 1, 2012. If written notice of termination is provided by either party, the term of the agreement shall expire on March 31, 2015. Alico benefits from reduced real estate taxes due to the agricultural classification of a majority of its land. Changes in the classification or valuation methods employed by county property appraisers could cause significant changes in our real estate tax liabilities. In the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we paid $2,275,000, $2,458,000 and $2,435,000 in real estate taxes, respectively. These taxes were based upon the agricultural use (“Green Belt”) values determined by the county property appraiser in which counties we own land, of $82,975,000, $92,038,000 and $93,369,000 for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which differs significantly from the fair values determined by the county property appraisers of $529,542,000, $540,168,000 and $555,925,000, respectively. Changes in state law or county policy regarding the granting of agricultural classification or calculation of Green Belt values or average millage rates could significantly impact our results of operations, cash flow and financial position. Alico manages its properties in an attempt to capture its highest and best use and customarily does not sell property until it no longer meets our total return profile. The goal for our land management program is to manage and selectively improve our lands for their most profitable use. We continually evaluate our properties focusing on location, soil capabilities, subsurface composition, topography, transportation, availability of markets for our crops, the climatic characteristics of each of the tracts, long-term capital appreciation and operating income potential. While we are primarily engaged in agricultural activities, when land does not meet our total return profile, we may determine that the property is surplus to our activities and place the property for sale or exchange. Alico is subject to environmental regulations. Compliance with applicable environmental laws may substantially increase our costs of doing business which could reduce our profits. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the operation of our properties, which are administered by numerous federal, state and local governmental agencies. We face a potential for environmental liability by virtue of our ownership of real property. If hazardous substances (including herbicides and pesticides used by us or by any persons leasing our lands) are discovered emanating from any of our lands and the release of such substances presents a threat of harm to the public health or the environment, 9 we may be held strictly liable for the cost of remediation of these hazardous substances. In addition, environmental laws that apply to a given site can vary greatly according to the site’s location, its present and former uses, and other factors such as the presence of wetlands or endangered species on the site. Management monitors environmental legislation and requirements and makes every effort to remain in compliance with such regulations. Furthermore, Alico requires lessees of its properties to comply with environmental regulations as a condition of leasing. We also purchase insurance for environmental liability when it is available; however, these insurance contracts may not be adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available at prices and terms that would be satisfactory. It is possible that in some cases the cost of compliance with these environmental laws could exceed the value of a particular tract of land or be significant enough that it would have a materially adverse effect on us. Our business may be adversely affected if we lose key employees. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel. These individuals have extensive experience and expertise in our business lines and segments in which they work. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our success will be dependent on our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled personnel in our business lines and segments. Agricultural Risks — General Agricultural operations traditionally provide almost all of our operating revenues. Agriculture operations are subject to a wide variety of risks including product pricing due to variations in supply and demand, weather, disease, input costs and product liability. Agricultural products are subject to supply and demand pricing which is not predictable. Although our processed citrus and sugarcane are subject to minimum pricing we are unable to predict with certainty the final price we will receive for our products. In some instances the harvest and growth cycle will dictate when such products must be marketed which may or may not be advantageous in obtaining the best price. Excessive supplies tend to cause severe price competition and lower prices for the commodity affected. , Limited supply of certain agricultural commodities due to world and domestic market conditions can cause commodity prices to rise in certain situations. Alico attempts to mitigate these risks by using contracts with citrus processors that include pricing structures based on a minimum (“floor”) price and with a price increase (“rise”) if market prices exceed the floor price. We cannot accurately predict or control what our profits or losses from agricultural operations will be from year-to-year. Alico’s agricultural assets are concentrated and the effects of adverse weather conditions. Our agricultural operations are concentrated in south Florida with more than 80% of our agricultural lands located in a contiguous parcel in Hendry County. Because our agricultural properties are located in close proximity to each other, the impact of adverse weather conditions may be material to Alico’s results of operations. Florida is particularly susceptible to the occurrence of hurricanes. Depending on where any particular hurricane makes landfall, our properties could experience significant, if not catastrophic damage. Hurricanes have the potential to destroy crops, affect cattle breeding and impact citrus and sugarcane production through the loss of fruit and destruction of trees and/or plants either as a result of high winds or through the spread of windblown disease. Such damage could materially affect our citrus, sugarcane and cattle operations and could result in a loss of revenue from those products for a multi-year period. Alico seeks to minimize hurricane risk by the purchase of insurance contracts, but the majority of our crops remain uninsured. In addition to hurricanes, the occurrence of other natural disasters and climate conditions in Florida, such as tornadoes, floods, freeze usually heavy or prolonged rain, droughts and heat waves, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to realize income from our crops or cattle. Furthermore, an increase in sea levels due to long-term global warning could have a material adverse effect on our agricultural operations. Alico’s agricultural earnings comprise substantially all of its revenues and are subject to wide volatility which could result in breaches of loan covenants. Borrowing capacity represents a major source of our working capital. We currently have a credit facility with Rabo AgriFinance, Inc. that includes a Revolving Line of Credit and a Term Loan. These loans are subject to covenants requiring Alico to maintain a minimum current ratio of 1.5:1, a debt ratio no greater than 60%, tangible net worth of at least $80 million, and a minimum debt coverage ratio of 1.15:1. While we currently expect to remain in compliance with these covenants, because of the volatility of our earnings stream and the factors causing this volatility, we are unable to directly control compliance with these covenants. In March 2010, Alico received a one-time waiver of the debt coverage ratio requirement from its previous lender, Farm Credit of Southwest Florida, in response to a freeze which damaged crops and affected the timing of their harvest. We believe that, based on factors currently known, we will continue to remain in compliance with our Revolving Line of Credit and Term Loan. We negotiated a less restrictive debt coverage ratio covenant to provide that the covenant must be breached in two consecutive years in order to be considered an event of default. Nevertheless, due to earnings volatility and factors unknown to us at this time, it is possible that a loan 10 covenant could be breached, a default occur, and the major portion of our borrowings become due which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Water Use Regulation restricts Alico’s access to water for agricultural use. Our agricultural operations are dependent upon the availability of adequate surface and underground water. The availability of water for use in irrigation is regulated by the State of Florida through water management districts which have jurisdiction over various geographic regions in which our lands are located. Currently, we have permits in place for the next 15 to 20 years for the use of underground and surface water which are adequate for our agricultural needs. Surface water in Hendry County, where much of our agricultural land is located, comes from Lake Okeechobee via the Caloosahatchee River and the system of canals used to irrigate such land. The Army Corps of Engineers controls the level of Lake Okeechobee and ultimately determines the availability of surface water even though the use of water has been permitted by the State of Florida through the water management district. The Army Corps of Engineers decided in 2010 to lower the permissible level of Lake Okeechobee in response to concerns about the ability of the levee surrounding the lake to restrain rising waters which could result from hurricanes. Changes in availability for surface water use may result during times of drought, because of lower lake levels which result in shortages of water for agricultural use and could have a materially adverse effect on our agricultural operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Alico’s citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from disease including but not limited to Citrus Canker and Citrus Greening Our citrus groves are subject to damage and loss from diseases such as Citrus Canker and Citrus Greening. Each of these diseases is widespread in Florida and exists in areas where our groves are located. Citrus canker is a disease affecting citrus species caused by a bacterium and is spread by contact with infected trees or by windblown transmission. There is no known cure for Citrus Canker at the present time although some management practices including the use of copper-based bactericides can mitigate its spread and lessen its effect on infected trees; however, there is no assurance that available technologies to control such disease will be effective. Citrus Greening decreases the productivity of infected trees and is spread by insects known as Asian Citrus Psyillids. Alico uses a pesticide program to control these vectors and an enhanced foliar nutritional program to mitigate the damage to infected trees. At the present time, there is no known cure for Citrus Greening once trees are infected. We use best management practices to attempt to control diseases and their spread. Both of these diseases pose a significant threat to the Florida Citrus industry and to our citrus groves. We are managing the affects and the spread of these diseases in our groves which, left unmanaged, could cause a material adverse effect to our citrus grove operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Use of pesticides and herbicides and other materials by Alico or its lessees could create liability for Alico. Alico and some of the parties to whom we lease land for agricultural purposes use herbicides, pesticides and other hazardous substances in the operation of their businesses. All pesticides and herbicides used by us have been approved for use by the proper governmental agencies with the hazards attributable to each substance appropriately labeled and described. We maintain policies requiring our employees to apply such chemicals strictly in accordance with the labeling. As a condition of our leasing agreements, we require that third parties also adhere to proper handling and disposal of such materials; however, we do not have full knowledge or control over the chemicals used by third parties who lease our lands for cultivation. It is possible that some of these herbicides and pesticides could be harmful to humans if used improperly or that there may be unknown hazards associated with such chemicals despite any contrary government or manufacturer labels. We might have to pay the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental release or the use or misuse of such substances, which could have a materially adverse effect. Changes in immigration laws or enforcement of such laws could impact the ability of Alico to harvest its crops. We engage third parties to harvest our citrus fruit. These third parties employ workers which the availability and number of such workers is subject to decrease if there are changes in the U.S. immigration laws or by stricter enforcement of such laws. The scarcity of available personnel to harvest our agricultural products could cause harvesting costs to increase or could lead to the loss of product that is not timely harvested which could have a materially adverse effect. Changing public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks of Alico’s agricultural products can affect demand and pricing of such products. The general public’s perception regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food crops we grow and sell could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or develop products that satisfy new customer preferences, there could be decreased demand for our products. Even if market prices are unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be or have been harvested must be brought to market. Additionally, we have significant investments in our citrus groves and 11 sugarcane fields and cannot easily shift to alternative crops for this land. A decrease in the selling price received for our products due to the factors described above could have a materially adverse effect on Alico. We face significant competition in its agricultural operations. We face significant competition in its agricultural operations both from domestic and foreign producers and does not have any branded products. Foreign growers generally have an equal or lower cost of production, less environmental regulation and in some instances, greater resources and market flexibility than Alico. Because foreign growers have great flexibility as to when they enter the U.S. market, we cannot always predict the impact these competitors will have on our business and results of operations. The competition we face from foreign suppliers of sugar and orange juice is mitigated by quota restrictions on sugar imports imposed by the U.S. government and by a governmentally imposed tariff on orange imports. A change in the government’s sugar policy allowing more imports or a reduction in the orange juice tariff could adversely impact our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 12 