Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the shares of common stock the Company may involve a material degree of risk. Accordingly, shareholders should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information concerning the Company and its business contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. Financial conditions and governments regulations restrict our ability to pay dividends on shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that the Company will declare or pay cash dividends on its common stock at any particular time. The determination of whether to pay dividends will depend on factors deemed appropriate by the Boards of Directors of the Bank and the Company including the availability of funds for such a distribution. We conduct our business through our bank subsidiary from which we receive our dividends. Dividends payable by the Company are subject to the financial condition of the Bank and the Company. 7 Table of Contents In addition, banking regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by the Bank to the Company without prior regulatory approval. The payment of dividends by the Bank to the Company is regulated by various state and federal laws and by regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Bank, which restrict the payment of dividends under certain circumstances. In addition, such regulations also impose certain minimum capital requirements which affect the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends by a regulated banking institution such as the Bank. Even if the Bank is able to generate sufficient earnings to pay dividends, there is no assurance that the Board of Directors might not decide or be required to retain a greater portion of the Bank’s earnings in order to maintain or achieve the capital necessary because of any: (i) increase in the capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve Bank; (ii) significant increase in the total of risk-weighted assets held by the Bank; (iii) significant decreases in the Bank’s income; (iv) significant deterioration of the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio; or (v) new federal or state regulations. The occurrence of any of these events would decrease the amount of funds potentially available for the payment of dividends by the Bank to the Company. In addition, in some cases, the Federal Reserve Bank could take the position that it has the power to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, if, in its view, such payments would constitute unsafe or unsound banking practices. In the event the Company decides to issue dividends on the shares of common stock, there may be securities issued in the future, such as preferred stock, which may receive equal or greater dividend preference than the common stock. Some of our loans may not be repaid and we may not have made sufficient allowances for these losses. There is substantial likelihood that some of our loans will not be repaid in part or in full due to, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies, loan portfolio quality, the mix of the loan portfolio, loan grades, concentration of risk and current delinquency trends. Based upon such factors, we make various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for each category at loan grade. Loans specifically identified as high risk may be evaluated individually rather than by loan grade. We actively manage our non-performing loans in an effort to minimize credit losses and monitor its asset quality to maintain an adequate loan loss allowance. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although we use the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income and, possibly our capital, and could result in the inability to pay dividends, among other adverse consequences. State and federal regulations and agencies restrict how we conduct our business and our ability to respond to changing economic and financial conditions. Bank holding companies and banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to the supervision and examination by several federal and state regulatory agencies. The Company is subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Bank. The Bank is also subject to the regulation and supervision of the FDIC and the Florida Department of Banking and Finance. Federal and state laws and regulations govern matters ranging from the regulation of certain debt obligations, changes in the control of the bank holding companies, and the maintenance of adequate capital for the general business operations and financial condition of the Bank, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum rate of interest that may be charged by law. The Federal Reserve Bank also possesses cease and desist powers over bank holding companies to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. These and other restrictions limit the manner by which the Company and the Bank may conduct their business and obtain financing. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve and other federal instrumentalities. A primary instrument of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve is the restriction of expansion of the money supply through open market operations and changes in reserve requirements and the discount rate. These operations sometimes cause wide fluctuations in interest rates and can have direct, adverse effects on our operating results. Changes to the discount rate by the Federal Reserve Board usually lead to corresponding interest rate changes, which affect our interest income, interest expense and the value of our investment portfolio. Also, governmental policies, such as the creation of a tax deduction for individual retirement accounts, can alter the rate of savings and affect the costs of funds. The nature, timing and effect on us and our results of operations of any future changes in federal monetary and fiscal policies are not predictable. Such changes could materially adversely affect our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operation. Our results of operations are directly affected by levels of, and fluctuations in, interest rates. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income, reduce gains from loan sales, result in higher loan losses and reduce loan originations and corresponding loan servicing income. A substantial and/or sustained increase in interest rates could prevent us from originating or selling loans with returns consistent with past practices. It could also prevent borrowers with variable rate loans from meeting scheduled debt service requirements. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest margin, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations because of imbalances in the maturities of our assets and liabilities and the mix of our adjustable and fixed rate loans. Asset/Liability Management The operations and profitability of the Bank are largely impacted by changes in interest rates and management’s ability to control interest rate sensitivity of the Bank’s assets and liabilities. The Bank has generally experienced a negative gap position which suggests that the Banks’ net yield on interest earning assets may increase during periods of declining interest rates. Correspondingly, the Bank could be expected to suffer a decline of net yield on interest earning assets during a rise in interest rates. Management believes that its current asset/liability strategy reduces the Bank’s risk exposure to significant net yield impact during periods of interest rate fluctuation. However, there can be no assurance that the Bank’s asset/liability strategy will be successful. Increased competition with other financial institutions with greater reserves and product offerings may negatively affect our profitability. The Bank competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Furthermore, due to recent changes in the law that has increased competition among financial institutions, out-of-sate financial institutions have entered the Florida market. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank and may offer certain services, such as trust services that the Bank does not provide at this time. The profitability of the Company depends upon the Bank’s ability to remain competitive given this increased competition. Incorporating on-going technological advances into our business may increase costs while failure to incorporate technology may subject us to a competitive disadvantage. Our ability to use technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to enhance efficiencies in our operations, may influence our success. While we seek to improve our capacity to use technological innovations, our strategy is based on the belief that customer demand for personal contact and strategically placed branch offices will continue for the foreseeable future. To the extent we fail to incorporate technological advances into our business may result in the loss of customers to our competitors who have incorporated such technology. 9 Table of Contents An economic downturn adversely affecting Southeast Florida or a material decline in the value of real estate in our core Southeast Florida market will likely have an adverse affect on the Company. The success of the Company and the Bank is dependent to a large extent upon the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by the Bank which focuses on Miami-Dade County and Broward County, Florida and the immediate surrounding areas. Although the Bank expects economic conditions will continue to improve in these market areas, there is no assurance that favorable economic development will occur or that the Bank’s expectation of corresponding growth will be achieved. Adverse changes in it geographic markets would likely impair the Bank’s ability to collect loans and could otherwise have a negative effect on the financial condition of the Company. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Company often secures its loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2006, approximately 91% of the Company’s loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. The Company’s results are solely dependent upon the results of the Bank. The sole business activity of the Company consists of its ownership of the capital stock of the Bank. As a result, the Company lacks diversification as to business activities and market area, and any event affecting the Bank will have a direct impact on the Company. We are dependent upon the service of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to the Company’s business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our common stock may fluctuate due to our performance and factors beyond our control and the trading market in our stock has less liquidity than the average trading market for stock quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market. Our common stock is publicly traded and the market price of our stock has fluctuated and continues to fluctuate depending upon or performance and factors beyond our control. If interest rates and monetary policy change or if the amount of deposits change, among other factors, our performance will be altered and the market price of our stock may fluctuate in response to these and other factors. Additionally, our common stock is thinly traded. The average trading volume of our shares on the Nasdaq Global Market during 2006 was approximately 8,729 shares. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices or times that they desire. Our Merger with Colonial has various conditions to closing which may terminate the merger agreement. Our merger with Colonial has various conditions to closing which must be satisfied by us or by Colonial prior to the completion of the merger. If these conditions are not satisfied or waived, we or Colonial may terminate the merger agreement. The termination of the merger agreement could have a material adverse affect on us. 10 Table of Contents The merger agreement with Colonial contains various conditions to closing, including obtaining stockholder approval, obtaining all governmental and regulatory approval, and compliance with the other terms and conditions of the merger agreement. If these conditions are not satisfied by us, we or Colonial may terminate the merger agreement. In addition, we have incurred material expenses in connections with the merger agreement, which would be recognized in fiscal 2007 in the event the merger agreement was terminated. As a result of the termination of the merger agreement, our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and stock price could be materially, adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 