ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results - Together with the other information on the risks we face and our management of risk contained in this Annual Report or in our other SEC filings, the following presents significant risks which may affect us. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also impair our business operations and results. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law EESA in response to the current crisis in the financial sector. The U.S. Department of the Treasury (“UST”) and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system and on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law ARRA. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA or ARRA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or 18 Table of Contents worsening of current financial market conditions could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of our securities. U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition As described in “Business — Economic Conditions, Government Policies, Legislation and Regulation”, recent turmoil and downward economic trends have been particularly acute in the financial sector. Although the Company and the Bank remain well capitalized and have not suffered any significant liquidity issues as a result of these recent events, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers realize the impact of an economic slowdown and recession. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in Central and Southern California, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse economic conditions in the state of California, where our business is concentrated. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. We may be required to make additional provisions for loan losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $26.6 million provision for credit losses and charged off $5.7 million, net of $348,000 in recoveries. There has been a significant slowdown in the housing market in portions of Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino and Orange counties and the Central Valley area of California where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects declining prices and excess inventories of homes to be sold, which has contributed to financial strain on home builders and suppliers. As of December 31, 2008, we had $2.3 billion in real estate loans and $0.35 billion in construction loans. Continuing deterioration in the real estate market generally and in the residential building segment in particular could result in additional loan charge-offs and provisions for credit losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. Declines in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, approximately twelve percent (12%) of our loan portfolio was comprised of dairy and livestock loans. Recent declines in commodity prices, including milk prices, could adversely impact the ability of those to whom we have made dairy and livestock loans to perform under the terms of their borrowing arrangements with us. In particular, declines in commodity prices could result in additional loan charge-offs and provisions for credit losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for credit losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance. The allowance is also appropriately increased for new loan growth. While we believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover inherent losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for credit losses further or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. 19 Table of Contents Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets A further downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values continue to further decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. We may experience goodwill impairment If our estimates of segment fair value change due to changes in our businesses or other factors, we may determine that impairment charges on goodwill recorded as a result of acquisitions are necessary. Estimates of fair value are determined based on our earnings, the fair value of our Company as determined by our stock price, and company comparisons. If the fair value of the Company declines, we may need to recognize goodwill impairment in the future which would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and capital levels. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. At December 31, 2008 our balance sheet was liability sensitive and, as a result, our net interest margin tends to decline in a rising interest rate environment and expand in a declining interest rate environment. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread 20 Table of Contents and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment, we may need to accelerate the pace of rate increases on our deposit accounts as compared to the pace of future increases in short-term market rates. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality and loan origination volume. We are subject to extensive government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which, in turn, may hamper our ability to increase our assets and earnings Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. Perennially various laws, rules and regulations are proposed, which, if adopted, could impact our operations by making compliance much more difficult or expensive, restricting our ability to originate or sell loans or further restricting the amount of interest or other charges or fees earned on loans or other products. The short term and long term impact of the new Basel II capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel II U.S. banks is uncertain As a result of the recent deterioration in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short term impact of the implementation of Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative standardized approach to Basel II option for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. Failure to manage our growth may adversely affect our performance Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to manage past and possible future growth. Future acquisitions and our continued growth may present operating, integration and other issues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services We conduct most of our operations in California. The banking and financial services businesses in California are highly competitive and increased competition in our primary market area may adversely impact the level of our loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits. 21 Table of Contents We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. In addition, ARRA has imposed significant limitations on executive compensation for recipients of TARP funds, such as us, which may make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation. State laws may restrict our ability to pay dividends The ability for the Bank to pay dividends to us and for us to pay dividends to our shareholders is limited by California law. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Cash Flows.” The terms of our outstanding preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock and there can be no assurance of any future dividends on our common stock The Purchase Agreement between us and the UST pursuant to which we sold $130.0 million of our Series B Preferred Stock (the “TARP Preferred Stock”) and issued a warrant to purchase up to 1,669,521 shares of our common stock (the “TARP Warrant”) provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 5, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the TARP Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by the UST to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the UST, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock above $0.085 per share, the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the TARP Preferred Stock. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are 22 Table of Contents current in our dividend payments on the TARP Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the TARP Warrant could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Our outstanding preferred stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the TARP Warrant as well as other potential issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to holders of our common stock The dividends declared and the accretion on discount on our outstanding preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Our outstanding preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the TARP Warrant is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the TARP Warrant represent approximately 2.0% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of February 15, 2009 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the TARP Warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the UST has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the TARP Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the TARP Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the TARP Warrant is not bound by this restriction. In addition, to the extent options to purchase common stock under our employee and director stock option plans are exercised, holders of our common stock will incur additional dilution. Further, if we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, such sales could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. Because of our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on compensation paid to our executives Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the UST holds the equity issued pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the TARP Warrant. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. Since the TARP Warrant has a ten year term, we could potentially be subject to the executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions for a ten-year time period. Pursuant to ARRA, further compensation restrictions, including significant limitations on incentive compensation, have been imposed on our senior executive officers and most highly compensated employees. Such restrictions and any future restrictions on executive compensation, which may be adopted, could adversely affect our ability to hire and retain senior executive officers. 23 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional shareholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility recently. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified above in “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Anti-takeover provisions and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline Various provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. These include, among other things, a shareholder rights plan and the authorization to issue 24 Table of Contents “blank check” preferred stock by action of the board of directors acting alone, thus without obtaining shareholder approval. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either Federal Reserve approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the Federal Reserve and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a state member bank, such as the Bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Changes in stock market prices could reduce fee income from our brokerage, asset management and investment advisory businesses We earn substantial wealth management fee income for managing assets for our clients and also providing brokerage and investment advisory services. Because investment management and advisory fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. We may face other risks From time to time, we detail other risks with respect to our business and/or financial results in our filings with the Commission. For further discussion on additional areas of risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and the Results of Operations — Risk Management.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 