Item 1A. Risk Factors” and any additional information we set forth in our periodic reports filed pursuant to the Exchange Act, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update our forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences or unanticipated events or circumstances arising after the date of such statements except as required by law. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS CVB Financial Corp. CVB Financial Corp. (referred to herein on an unconsolidated basis as “CVB” and on a consolidated basis as “we” or the “Company”) is a bank holding company incorporated in California on April 27, 1981 and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “Bank Holding Company Act”). The Company commenced business on December 30, 1981 when, pursuant to reorganization, it acquired all of the voting stock of Chino Valley Bank. On March 29, 1996, Chino Valley Bank changed its name to Citizens Business Bank (the “Bank”). The Bank is our principal asset. The Company has three other inactive subsidiaries: CVB Ventures, Inc.; Chino Valley Bancorp; and ONB Bancorp. The Company is also the common stockholder of CVB Statutory Trust I, CVB Statutory Trust II, CVB Statutory Trust III, and FCB Trust II. CVB Statutory Trusts I and II were created in December 2003 and CVB Statutory Trust III was created in January 2006 to issue trust preferred securities in order to raise capital for the Company. The Company acquired FCB Trust II (which was also created to raise capital) through the acquisition of First Coastal Bancshares (“FCB”) in June 2007. CVB’s principal business is to serve as a holding company for the Bank and for other banking or banking related subsidiaries, which the Company may establish or acquire. We have not engaged in any other material activities to date. As a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, CVB’s principal source of funds is, and will continue to be, dividends paid by and other funds advanced from the Bank and capital raised directly by CVB. Legal limitations are imposed on the amount of dividends that may be paid and loans that may be made by the Bank to CVB. See “Item 1. Business — Regulation and Supervision — Dividends.” At December 31, 2010, the Company had $6.44 billion in total consolidated assets, $3.64 billion in net loans, $4.52 billion in deposits, $542.2 million in customer repurchase agreements and $553.4 million in borrowings. On October 16, 2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed substantially all of the liabilities of San Joaquin Bank (“SJB”) headquartered in Bakersfield, California, in an FDIC-assisted transaction. We acquired all five branches of SJB, one of which we consolidated with our existing Bakersfield business financial center. Through this acquisition, we acquired $489.1 million in loans, $25.3 million in investment securities, $530.0 million in deposits, and $121.4 million in borrowings. The foregoing amounts were reflected at fair value as of the acquisition date. The principal executive offices of CVB and the Bank are located at 701 North Haven Avenue, Suite 350, Ontario, California. Our phone number is (909) 980-4030. Citizens Business Bank The Bank commenced operations as a California state-chartered bank on August 9, 1974. The Bank’s deposit accounts are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act up to applicable limits. The Bank is not a member of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2010, the Bank had $6.4 billion in assets, $3.6 billion in net loans, $4.5 billion in deposits, $542.2 million in customer repurchase agreements and $553.4 million in borrowings. As of December 31, 2010, we had 43 Business Financial Centers located in the Inland Empire, Los Angeles County, Orange County and the Central Valley areas of California. Of the 43 Business Financial Centers, we opened 13 as de novo branches and acquired the other 30 in acquisition transactions. We also had five Commercial Banking Centers, of which four were opened in 2008 and one was opened in 2009. No offices were opened in 2010. Although able to take deposits, these centers operate primarily as sales offices and focus on business clients and their principals, professionals, and high net-worth individuals. These centers are located in Encino (in the San Fernando Valley), Los Angeles, Torrance and Burbank. The fifth one, the Inland Empire Commercial Banking Center, is located adjacent to the Ontario Airport Business Financial Center. We also have three trust offices in Ontario, Pasadena and Orange County. These offices serve as sales offices for wealth management, trust and investment products. 5 Table of Contents Through our network of banking offices, we emphasize personalized service combined with a full range of banking and trust services for businesses, professionals and individuals located in the service areas of our offices. Although we focus the marketing of our services to small-and medium-sized businesses, a full range of retail banking services are made available to the local consumer market. We offer a wide range of deposit instruments. These include checking, savings, money market and time certificates of deposit for both business and personal accounts. We also serve as a federal tax depository for our business customers. We provide a full complement of lending products, including commercial, agribusiness, consumer, real estate loans and equipment and vehicle leasing. Commercial products include lines of credit and other working capital financing, accounts receivable lending and letters of credit. Agribusiness products are loans to finance the operating needs of wholesale dairy farm operations, cattle feeders, livestock raisers, and farmers. We provide lease financing for municipal governments. Financing products for consumers include automobile leasing and financing, lines of credit, and home improvement and home equity lines of credit. Real estate loans include mortgage and construction loans. We also offer a wide range of specialized services designed for the needs of our commercial accounts. These services include cash management systems for monitoring cash flow, a credit card program for merchants, courier pick-up and delivery, payroll services, remote deposit capture, electronic funds transfers by way of domestic and international wires and automated clearinghouse, and on-line account access. We make available investment products to customers, including mutual funds, a full array of fixed income vehicles and a program to diversify our customers’ funds in federally insured time certificates of deposit of other institutions. We offer a wide range of financial services and trust services through CitizensTrust. These services include fiduciary services, mutual funds, annuities, 401K plans and individual investment accounts. Business Segments We are a community bank with two reportable operating segments: (i) Business Financial and Commercial Banking Centers (“Centers”) and (ii) our Treasury Department. Our Centers are the focal points for customer sales and services. As such, these Centers comprise the biggest segment of the Company. Our other reportable segment, Treasury Department manages all of the investments for the Company. All administrative and other smaller operating departments are combined into the “Other” category for reporting purposes. See the sections captioned “Results by Segment Operations” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 21 — Business Segments in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Competition The banking and financial services business is highly competitive. The increasingly competitive environment faced by banks is a result primarily of changes in laws and regulations, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We compete for loans, deposits, and customers with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, savings banks, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market funds, credit unions, and other nonbank financial service providers. Many competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, including foreign-ownership, and/or offer a broader range of financial services. Regulation and Supervision General Our profitability, like most financial institutions, is primarily dependent on interest rate differentials. In general, the difference between the interest rates paid by the Bank on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates received by the Bank on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to customers and securities held in the investment portfolio, will comprise the major portion of our earnings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, such as inflation, recession and 6 Table of Contents unemployment, and the impact which future changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions might have on us cannot be predicted. Our business is also influenced by the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the policies of regulatory agencies, particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”). The FRB implements national monetary policies (with objectives such as curbing inflation and combating recession) through its open-market operations in U.S. Government securities by adjusting the required level of reserves for depository institutions subject to its reserve requirements, and by varying the target federal funds and discount rates applicable to borrowings by depository institutions. The actions of the FRB in these areas influence the growth of bank loans, investments, and deposits and also affect interest earned on interest-earning assets and paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The nature and impact of any future changes in monetary and fiscal policies on us cannot be predicted. The Company and the Bank are subject to significant regulation and restrictions by federal and state laws and regulatory agencies. These regulations and restrictions are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the deposit insurance fund, and secondarily for the stability of the U.S. banking system. They are not intended for the benefit of shareholders of financial institutions. The following discussion of statutes and regulations is a summary and does not purport to be complete nor does it address all applicable statutes and regulations. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to the statutes and regulations referred to in this discussion. From time to time, federal and state legislation is enacted which may have the effect of materially increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or expanding permissible activities, or affecting the competitive balance between banks and other financial services providers. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have improved, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to reduced consumer spending and continued liquidity challenges in the credit markets. In response to this economic downturn and financial industry instability, legislative and regulatory initiatives were, and are expected to continue to be, introduced and implemented, which substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry. We cannot predict whether or when potential legislation or new regulations will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that new legislation or any implemented regulations and supervisory policies would have on our financial condition and results of operations. Such developments may further alter the structure, regulation, and competitive relationship among financial institutions, and may subject us to increased regulation, disclosure, and reporting requirements. Moreover, the bank regulatory agencies have been very aggressive in the current economic environment in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and this has resulted in the increased issuance of enforcement actions to financial institutions requiring action to address credit quality, liquidity and risk management and capital adequacy, as well as other safety and soundness concerns. Recent Developments — Government Policies, Legislation, and Regulation The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act The landmark Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act financial reform legislation (“Dodd-Frank”), which became law on July 21, 2010, significantly revised and expanded the rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority of federal bank regulators. Dodd-Frank followed other legislative and regulatory initiatives in 2008 and 2009 in response to the economic downturn and financial industry instability. Dodd-Frank impacts many aspects of the financial industry and, in many cases, will impact larger and smaller financial institutions and community banks differently over time. Dodd-Frank includes, among other things, the following: (i) the creation of a Financial Services Oversight Counsel to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; (ii) expanded FDIC resolution authority to conduct the orderly liquidation of certain systemically significant non-bank financial companies in addition to depository institutions; 7 Table of Contents (iii) the establishment of strengthened capital and liquidity requirements for banks and bank holding companies, including minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements no less than the strictest requirements in effect for depository institutions as of the date of enactment; (iv) the requirement by statute that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial strength for their depository institution subsidiaries; (v) enhanced regulation of financial markets, including the derivative and securitization markets, and the elimination of certain proprietary trading activities by banks; (vi) the termination of investments by the U.S. Treasury under TARP; (vii) the elimination and phase out of trust preferred securities (TRUPS) from Tier 1 capital with certain exceptions; (viii) a permanent increase of the previously implemented temporary increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000 and an extension of federal deposit coverage until January 1, 2013 for the full net amount held by depositors in non-interesting bearing transaction accounts; (ix) authorization for financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts; (x) changes in the calculation of FDIC deposit insurance assessments, such that the assessment base will no longer be the institution’s deposit base, but instead, will be its average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity; (xi) the elimination of remaining barriers to de novo interstate branching by banks; (xii) expanded restrictions on transactions with affiliates and insiders under Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and lending limits for derivative transactions, repurchase agreements and securities lending and borrowing transactions; (xiii) the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and state chartered savings banks to the FDIC, and the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision; (xiv) provisions that affect corporate governance and executive compensation at most United States publicly traded companies, including financial institutions, including (1) stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation, (2) executive compensation “clawback” requirements for companies listed on national securities exchanges in the event of materially inaccurate statements of earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria, (3) enhanced independence requirements for compensation committee members, and (4) authority for the SEC to adopt proxy access rules which would permit stockholders of publicly traded companies to nominate candidates for election as director and have those nominees included in a company’s proxy statement; and (xv) the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which is authorized to promulgate consumer protection regulations relating to bank and non-bank financial products and examine and enforce these regulations on banks with more than $10 billion in assets. We cannot predict the extent to which the interpretations and implementation of this wide-ranging federal legislation by regulations and in supervisory policies and practices may affect us. Many of the requirements of Dodd-Frank will be implemented over time and most will be subject to regulations to be implemented or which will not become fully effective for several years. There can be no assurance that these or future reforms (such as possible new standards for commercial real estate lending (“CRE”) or new stress testing guidance for all banks) arising out of these regulations and studies and reports required by Dodd-Frank will not significantly increase our compliance or other operating costs and earnings or otherwise have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dodd-Frank will likely result in more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements on us and may otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, the provisions that affect the payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees are likely to increase the costs associated with deposits as well as place limitations on certain revenues those deposits may generate. Provisions that revoke the Tier 1 capital treatment of 8 Table of Contents trust preferred securities and otherwise require revisions to the capital requirements of the Company and the Bank could require the Company and the Bank to seek other sources of capital in the future. As a result of the changes required by Dodd-Frank, the profitability of our business activities may be impacted and we may be required to make changes to certain of our business practices. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Some of the regulations required by various sections of Dodd-Frank have been proposed and some adopted in final, including the following notices of proposed rulemakings (“NPRs”) and/or interim or final rules for the following sections of Dodd-Frank: • Risk Based Capital Guidelines — Market Risk (Section 171) — NPR • Orderly Liquidation (Section 209) — Initial Final Rule • Implement Changes to DIF Assessment Base (Section 331) — Final Rule • Designated Reserve Ratio and Restoration Plan for the Deposit Insurance Fund (Sections 332 and 334) — Final Rule • $250,000 Deposit Insurance Coverage Limit (Section 335) — Final Rule • Unlimited coverage for Non-Interest Bearing Deposits (Section 343) — Final Rule. Bank Holding Company Regulation CVB is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act (“BHCA”) and is registered as such with the Federal Reserve Board (“Federal Reserve”). It is also subject to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve and its authority to: • Require periodic reports and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require; • Require bank holding companies to maintain increased levels of capital (See “Capital Adequacy Requirements” below); • Require that bank holding companies serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to subsidiary banks and commit resources as necessary to support each subsidiary bank; • Restrict the ability of bank holding companies to obtain dividends on other distributions from their subsidiary banks; • Terminate an activity or terminate control of or liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries, affiliates or investments if the Federal Reserve believes the activity or the control of the subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary; • Require the prior approval of senior executive officer or director changes and prohibit golden parachute payments, including change in control agreements, or new employment agreements with such payment terms, which are contingent upon termination; • Regulate provisions of certain bank holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt and require prior approval to purchase or redeem securities in certain situations; • Approve acquisitions and mergers with banks and consider certain competitive, management, financial or other factors in granting these approvals in addition to similar California or other state banking agency approvals which may also be required. The Federal Reserve’s view is that in serving as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks, a bank holding company should stand ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to its subsidiary banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and should maintain financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks. A bank holding company’s failure to meet its 9 Table of Contents source-of-strength obligations may constitute an unsafe and unsound practice or a violation of the Federal Reserve Board’s regulations, or both. The source-of-strength doctrine most directly affects bank holding companies where a bank holding company’s subsidiary bank fails to maintain adequate capital levels. In such a situation, the subsidiary bank will be required by the bank’s federal regulator to take “prompt corrective action.” See “Prompt Corrective Action Provisions” below. Restrictions on Activities Subject to prior notice or Federal Reserve approval, bank holding companies may generally engage in, or acquire shares of companies engaged in, activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Bank holding companies which elect and retain “financial holding company” status pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”) may engage in these nonbanking activities and broader securities, insurance, merchant banking and other activities that are determined to be “financial in nature” or are incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature without prior Federal Reserve approval. Pursuant to GLBA and Dodd-Frank, in order to elect and retain financial holding company status, a bank holding company and all depository institution subsidiaries of a bank holding company must be well capitalized and well managed, and, except in limited circumstances, depository subsidiaries must be in satisfactory compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), which requires banks to help meet the credit needs of the communities in which they operate. Failure to sustain compliance with these requirements or correct any non-compliance within a fixed time period could lead to divestiture of subsidiary banks or require all activities to conform to those permissible for a bank holding company. CVB has not elected financial holding company status and neither CVB nor the Bank has engaged in any activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. CVB is also a bank holding company within the meaning of Section 3700 of the California Financial Code. Therefore, CVB and any of its subsidiaries are subject to examination by, and may be required to file reports with, the California Department of Financial Institutions (“DFI”). Securities Exchange Act of 1934 CVB’s common stock is publicly held and listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”), and CVB is subject to the periodic reporting, information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, corporate governance and other requirements and restrictions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder as well as listing requirements of NASDAQ. Sarbanes-Oxley Act The Company is subject to the accounting oversight and corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, among other things, required executive certification of financial presentations, requirements for board audit committees and their members, and disclosure of controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Bank Regulation As a California commercial bank whose deposits are insured by the FDIC, the Bank is subject to regulation, supervision, and regular examination by the DFI and by the FDIC, as the Bank’s primary Federal regulator, and must additionally comply with certain applicable regulations of the Federal Reserve. Specific federal and state laws and regulations which are applicable to banks regulate, among other things, the scope of their business, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds, their activities relating to dividends, investments, loans, the nature and amount of and collateral for certain loans, borrowings, capital requirements, certain check-clearing activities, branching, and mergers and acquisitions. California banks are also subject to statutes and regulations including Federal Reserve Regulation O and Federal Reserve Act Sections 23A and 23B and Regulation W, which restrict or limit loans or extensions of credit to “insiders”, including officers directors and principal shareholders, and loans or extension of credit by banks to affiliates or purchases of assets from affiliates, including parent bank holding companies, except pursuant to certain exceptions and terms and 10 Table of Contents conditions at least as favorable to those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated parties. Dodd-Frank expanded definitions and restrictions on transactions with affiliates and insiders under Section 23A and 23B and also lending limits for derivative transactions, repurchase agreements and securities lending and borrowing transactions Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDI Act”) and the California Financial Code, California state chartered commercial banks may generally engage in any activity permissible for national banks. Therefore, the Bank may form subsidiaries to engage in the many so-called “closely related to banking” or “nonbanking” activities commonly conducted by national banks in operating subsidiaries or subsidiaries of bank holding companies. Further, pursuant to GLBA, California banks may conduct certain “financial” activities in a subsidiary to the same extent as may a national bank, provided the bank is and remains “well-capitalized,” “well-managed” and in satisfactory compliance with the CRA. The Bank currently has no financial subsidiaries. Enforcement Authority The federal and California regulatory structure gives the bank regulatory agencies extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. The regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines to assist in identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before an institution’s capital becomes impaired. The guidelines establish operational and managerial standards generally relating to: (1) internal controls, information systems, and internal audit systems; (2) loan documentation; (3) credit underwriting; (4) interest-rate exposure; (5) asset growth and asset quality; and (6) compensation, fees, and benefits. Further, the regulatory agencies have adopted safety and soundness guidelines for asset quality and for evaluating and monitoring earnings to ensure that earnings are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves. If, as a result of an examination, the DFI or the FDIC should determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of the Bank’s operations are unsatisfactory or that the Bank or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation, the DFI and the FDIC, and separately the FDIC as insurer of the Bank’s deposits, have residual authority to: • Require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice; • Direct an increase in capital and the maintenance of higher specific minimum capital ratios, which may preclude the Bank from being deemed well capitalized and restrict its ability to accept certain brokered deposits; • Restrict the Bank’s growth geographically, by products and services, or by mergers and acquisitions, including bidding in FDIC receiverships for failed banks; • Enter into or issue informal or formal enforcement actions, including required Board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders or prompt corrective action orders to take corrective action and cease unsafe and unsound practices; • Require prior approval of senior executive officer or director changes; remove officers and directors and assess civil monetary penalties; and • Take possession of and close and liquidate the Bank or appoint the FDIC as receiver. Deposit Insurance The FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures deposits, up to prescribed statutory limits, of federally insured banks and savings institutions and safeguards the safety and soundness of the banking and savings industries. The FDIC insures our customer deposits through the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) up to prescribed limits for each depositor. Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the maximum deposit insurance amount has been permanently increased to $250,000 and all non-interest-bearing transaction accounts are insured through December 31, 2012. The amount of FDIC assessments paid by each DIF member institution is based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory factors. Due to the greatly 11 Table of Contents increased number of bank failures and losses incurred by DIF, as well as the recent extraordinary programs in which the FDIC has been involved to support the banking industry generally, the FDIC’s DIF was substantially depleted and the FDIC has incurred substantially increased operating costs. In November, 2009, the FDIC adopted a requirement for institutions to prepay in 2009 their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. The Bank prepaid its assessments based on the calculations of the projected assessments at that time. As required by Dodd-Frank, the FDIC adopted a new DIF restoration plan which became effective on January 1, 2011. Among other things, the plan: (1) raises the minimum designated reserve ratio, which the FDIC is required to set each year, to 1.35 percent (from the former minimum of 1.15 percent) and removes the upper limit on the designated reserve ratio (which was formerly capped at 1.5 percent) and consequently on the size of the fund; (2) requires that the fund reserve ratio reach 1.35 percent by 2020; (3) eliminates the requirement that the FDIC provide dividends from the fund when the reserve ratio is between 1.35 percent and 1.5 percent; and (4) continues the FDIC’s authority to declare dividends when the reserve ratio at the end of a calendar year is at least 1.5 percent, but grants the FDIC sole discretion in determining whether to suspend or limit the declaration or payment of dividends. The FDI Act continues to require that the FDIC’s Board of Directors consider the appropriate level for the designated reserve ratio annually and, if changing the designated reserve ratio, engage in notice-and-comment rulemaking before the beginning of the calendar year. The FDIC has set a long-term goal of getting its reserve ratio up to 2% of insured deposits by 2027. In connection with these changes, we expect our FDIC deposit insurance premiums to increase. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule, as mandated by Dodd-Frank, changing the deposit insurance assessment system from one that is based on total domestic deposits to one that is based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity In addition, the final rule creates a scorecard-based assessment system for larger banks (those with more than $10 billion in assets) and suspends dividend payments if the DIF reserve ratio exceeds 1.5 percent, but provides for decreasing assessment rates when the DIF reserve ratio reaches certain thresholds. Larger insured depository institutions will likely pay higher assessments to the DIF than under the old system. Additionally, the final rule includes a new adjustment for depository institution debt whereby an institution would pay an additional premium equal to 50 basis points on every dollar of long-term, unsecured debt held as an asset that was issued by another insured depository institution (excluding debt guaranteed under the TLGP). to the extent that all such debt exceeds 3 percent of the other insured depository institution’s Tier 1 capital. The new rule is expected to take effect for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011. Our FDIC insurance expense totaled $8.4 million for 2010. FDIC insurance expense includes deposit insurance assessments and Financing Corporation (“FICO”) assessments related to outstanding FICO bonds to fund interest payments on bonds to recapitalize the predecessor to the DIF. These assessments will continue until the FICO bonds mature in 2017. The FICO assessment rates, which are determined quarterly, was 0.01060% of insured deposits for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and 0.01040% of insured deposits for each of the last three quarters of fiscal 2010. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or if the FDIC otherwise determines, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. These announced increases and any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material and adverse affect on our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on the value of, or market for, our common stock. The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices that pose a risk to the DIF or that may prejudice the interest of the bank’s depositors. The termination of deposit insurance for a bank would also result in the revocation of the bank’s charter by the DFI. Capital Adequacy Requirements Bank holding companies and banks are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by state and federal banking agencies. Increased capital requirements are expected as a result of expanded authority set forth in Dodd-Frank and the Basel III international supervisory developments discussed above. Capital adequacy 12 Table of Contents guidelines and, additionally for banks, prompt corrective action regulations involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weighting, and other factors. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s and the Bank’s capital ratios exceeded the minimum capital adequacy guideline percentage requirements of the federal banking agencies for “well capitalized” institutions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources.” The current risk-based capital guidelines for bank holding companies and banks adopted by the federal banking agencies are expected to provide a measure of capital that reflects the degree of risk associated with a banking organization’s operations for both transactions reported on the balance sheet as assets, such as loans, and those recorded as off-balance sheet items, such as commitments, letters of credit and recourse arrangements. The risk-based capital ratio is determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet financial instruments into weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required for those categories perceived as representing greater risks and dividing its qualifying capital by its total risk-adjusted assets and off-balance sheet items. Bank holding companies and banks engaged in significant trading activity may also be subject to the market risk capital guidelines and be required to incorporate additional market and interest rate risk components into their risk-based capital standards. Qualifying capital is classified depending on the type of capital: • “Tier 1 capital” currently includes common equity and trust preferred securities, subject to certain criteria and quantitative limits. The capital received from trust preferred offerings also qualifies as Tier 1 capital, subject to the new provisions of Dodd-Frank. Under Dodd-Frank, depository institution holding companies with more than $15 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009, will no longer be able to include trust preferred securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital after the end of a 3-year phase-out period beginning 2013, and would need to replace any outstanding trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 with qualifying Tier 1 regulatory capital during the phase-out period. For institutions with less than $15 billion in total consolidated assets, existing trust preferred capital will still qualify as Tier 1. Small bank holding companies with less than $500 million in assets could issue new trust preferred which could still qualify as Tier 1, however the market for any new trust preferred capital raises is uncertain. • “Tier 2 capital” includes hybrid capital instruments, other qualifying debt instruments, a limited amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses, and a limited amount of unrealized holding gains on equity securities. Following the phase-out period under Dodd-Frank, trust preferred securities will be treated as Tier 2 capital. • “Tier 3 capital” consists of qualifying unsecured debt. The sum of Tier 2 and Tier 3 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier I capital. Under the current capital guidelines, there are three fundamental capital ratios: a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio. To be deemed “well capitalized” a bank must have a total risk-based capital ratio, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least ten percent, six percent and five percent, respectively. There is currently no Tier 1 leverage requirement for a holding company to be deemed well-capitalized. At December 31, 2010, the respective capital ratios of the Company and the Bank exceeded the minimum percentage requirements to be deemed “well-capitalized”. As of December 31, 2010, the Bank’s total risk-based capital ratio was 17.82% and its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 16.55%. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s total risk-based capital ratio was 18.00% and its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 16.61%. The federal banking agencies may change existing capital guidelines or adopt new capital guidelines in the future and have required many banks and bank holding companies subject to enforcement actions to maintain capital ratios in excess of the minimum ratios otherwise required to be deemed well capitalized, in which case institutions may no longer be deemed well capitalized and may therefore be subject to restrictions on taking brokered deposits. The Company and the Bank are also required to maintain a leverage capital ratio designed to supplement the risk-based capital guidelines. Banks and bank holding companies that have received the highest rating of the five categories used by regulators to rate banks and that are not anticipating or experiencing any significant growth must 13 Table of Contents maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital (net of all intangibles) to adjusted total assets of at least 3%. All other institutions are required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 100 to 200 basis points above the 3% minimum, for a minimum of 4% to 5%. Pursuant to federal regulations, banks must maintain capital levels commensurate with the level of risk to which they are exposed, including the volume and severity of problem loans. Federal regulators may, however, set higher capital requirements when a bank’s particular circumstances warrant. As of December 31, 2010, the Bank’s leverage capital ratio was 10.54%, and the Company’s leverage capital ratio was 10.58%, both ratios exceeding regulatory minimums. Federal Banking Agency Compensation Guidelines Guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the FDI Act prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder. In June 2010, the federal bank regulatory agencies jointly issued additional comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies (the “Incentive Compensation Guidance”) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Incentive Compensation Guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The Incentive Compensation Guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. On February 7, 2011, the Board of Directors of the FDIC approved a joint proposed rulemaking to implement Section 956 of Dodd-Frank for banks with $1 billion or more in assets. Section 956 prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions and are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. The proposed rule would move the U.S. closer to aspects of international compensation standards by 1) requiring deferral of a substantial portion of incentive compensation for executive officers of particularly large institutions described above; 2) prohibiting incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons that would encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation; 3) prohibiting incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons that would expose the institution to inappropriate risks by providing compensation that could lead to a material financial loss; 4) requiring policies and procedures for incentive-based compensation arrangements that are commensurate with the size and complexity of the institution; and 5) requiring annual reports on incentive compensation structures to the institution’s appropriate Federal regulator. A joint rule making proposal will be published for comment by all of the banking agencies and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), among other agencies. The scope, content and application of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on incentive compensation continue to evolve in the aftermath of the economic downturn. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of the Company and the Bank to hire, retain and motivate key employees. Basel Accords The current risk-based capital guidelines which apply to the Company and the Bank are based upon the 1988 capital accord (referred to as “Basel I”) of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”), a committee of central banks and bank supervisors and regulators from the major industrialized countries. The Basel Committee develops broad policy guidelines for use by each country’s supervisors in determining the supervisory policies they apply. A new framework and accord, referred to as Basel II evolved from 14 Table of Contents 2004 to 2006 out of the efforts to revise capital adequacy standards for internationally active banks. Basel II emphasizes internal assessment of credit, market and operational risk; supervisory assessment and market discipline in determining minimum capital requirements and became mandatory for large or “core” international banks outside the United States in 2008 (total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated foreign exposures of $10 billion or more). Basel II was optional for others, and if adopted, must first be complied with in a “parallel run” for two years along with the existing Basel I standards. The United States federal banking agencies issued a proposed rule for banking organizations that do not use the “advanced approaches” under Basel II. While this proposed rule generally parallels the relevant approaches under Basel II, it diverges where United States markets have unique characteristics and risk profiles. A definitive final rule has not yet been issued. The United States banking agencies indicated, however, that they would retain the minimum leverage requirement for all United States banks. In January 2009, the Basel Committee proposed to reconsider regulatory capital standards, supervisory and risk-management requirements and additional disclosures to further strengthen the Basel II framework in response to the worldwide economic downturn. In December 2009, the Basel Committee released two consultative documents proposing significant changes to bank capital, leverage and liquidity requirements to enhance the Basel II framework which had not yet been fully implemented internationally and even less so in the United States. The Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (commonly referred to as the G-20), including the United States, endorsed the reform package, referred to as Basel III, and proposed phase in timelines in November, 2010. Basel III provides for increases in the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio and the minimum requirement for the Tier 1 capital ratio. Basel III additionally includes a “capital conservation buffer” on top of the minimum requirement designed to absorb losses in periods of financial and economic distress; and an additional required countercyclical buffer percentage to be implemented according to a particular nation’s circumstances. These capital requirements are further supplemented under Basel III by a non-risk-based leverage ratio. Basel III also reaffirms the Basel Committee’s intention to introduce higher capital requirements on securitization and trading activities at the end of 2011. The Basel III liquidity proposals have three main elements: (i) a “liquidity coverage ratio” designed to meet the bank’s liquidity needs over a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario, (ii) a “net stable funding ratio” designed to promote more medium and long-term funding over a one-year time horizon, and (iii) a set of monitoring tools that the Basel Committee indicates should be considered as the minimum types of information that banks should report to supervisors. Implementation of Basel III in the United States will require regulations and guidelines by United States banking regulators, which may differ in significant ways from the recommendations published by the Basel Committee. It is unclear how United States banking regulators will define “well-capitalized” in their implementation of Basel III and to what extent and when smaller banking organizations in the United States will be subject to these regulations and guidelines. Basel III standards, if adopted, would lead to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. The Basel III standards, if adopted, could lead to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. The standards would, among other things: • impose more restrictive eligibility requirements for Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; • increase the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5 percent, net of regulatory deductions, and introduce a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5 percent of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7 percent; • increase the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5 percent inclusive of the capital conservation buffer; • increase the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5 percent inclusive of the capital conservation buffer; and • introduce a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5 percent of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth. 15 Table of Contents Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3 percent, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The new Basel III capital standards will be phased in from January 1, 2013 until January 1, 2019. United States banking regulators must also implement Basel III in conjunction with the provisions of Dodd-Frank related to increased capital and liquidity requirements. Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and the FDIC to adopt regulations imposing a continuing “floor” of the minimum leverage and Basel I-based capital requirements, as in effect for depository institutions as of the date of enactment, July 21, 2010, in cases where the Basel II-based capital requirements and any changes in capital regulations resulting from Basel III otherwise would permit lower requirements. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC issued a joint notice of proposed rulemaking that would implement this requirement. The regulations ultimately applicable to the Company may be substantially different from the Basel III final framework as published in December 2010. Requirements to maintain higher levels of capital or to maintain higher levels of liquid assets could adversely impact the Company’s net income and return on equity. Prompt Corrective Action Provisions The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards, including requiring the prompt submission of an acceptable capital restoration plan. Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal banking regulator under the prompt corrective action rules generally depend upon an institution’s classification within five capital categories as defined in the regulations. The relevant capital measures are the capital ratio, the Tier 1 capital ratio, and the leverage ratio. However, the federal banking agencies have also adopted non-capital safety and soundness standards to assist examiners in identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before capital becomes impaired. These include operational and managerial standards relating to: (i) internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems, (ii) loan documentation, (iii) credit underwriting, (iv) asset quality and growth, (v) earnings, (vi) risk management, and (vii) compensation and benefits. A depository institution’s capital tier under the prompt corrective action regulations will depend upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and the other factors established by the regulations. A bank will be: (i) “well capitalized” if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater and is not subject to any order or written directive by any such regulatory authority to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; (ii) “adequately capitalized” if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater and is not “well capitalized”; (iii) “undercapitalized” if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, or a leverage ratio of less than 4.0%; (iv) “significantly undercapitalized” if the institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3.0%, or a leverage ratio of less than 3.0%; and (v) “critically undercapitalized” if the institution’s tangible equity is equal to or less than 2.0% of average quarterly tangible assets. An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. The FDIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distributions (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be “undercapitalized.” “Undercapitalized” institutions are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The regulatory agencies may not accept such a plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan. The bank holding company must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. The 16 Table of Contents aggregate liability of the parent holding company is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5.0% of the depository institution’s total assets at the time it became undercapitalized and (ii) the amount which is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is “significantly undercapitalized.” “Significantly undercapitalized” depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become “adequately capitalized,” requirements to reduce total assets, and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. “Critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. The appropriate federal banking agency may, under certain circumstances, reclassify a well capitalized insured depository institution as adequately capitalized. The FDIA provides that an institution may be reclassified if the appropriate federal banking agency determines (after notice and opportunity for a hearing) that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the institution to be engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice. The appropriate agency is also permitted to require an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to comply with the supervisory provisions as if the institution were in the next lower category (but not treat a significantly undercapitalized institution as critically undercapitalized) based on supervisory information other than the capital levels of the institution. Dividends It is the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, in consideration of the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. The Bank is a legal entity that is separate and distinct from its holding company. CVB receives income through dividends paid by the Bank. Subject to the regulatory restrictions which currently further restrict the ability of the Bank to declare and pay dividends, future cash dividends by the Bank will depend upon management’s assessment of future capital requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The powers of the board of directors of the Bank to declare a cash dividend to CVB is subject to California law, which restricts the amount available for cash dividends to the lesser of a bank’s retained earnings or net income for its last three fiscal years (less any distributions to shareholders made during such period). Where the above test is not met, cash dividends may still be paid, with the prior approval of the DFI in an amount not exceeding the greatest of (1) retained earnings of the bank; (2) the net income of the bank for its last fiscal year; or (3) the net income of the bank for its current fiscal year. Operations and Consumer Compliance Laws The Bank must comply with numerous federal anti-money laundering and consumer protection statutes and implementing regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, the Bank Secrecy Act, the CRA, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the National Flood Insurance Act and various federal and state privacy protection laws. Noncompliance with these laws could subject the Bank to lawsuits and could also result in administrative penalties, including, fines and reimbursements. The Bank and the Company are also subject to federal and state laws prohibiting unfair or fraudulent business practices, untrue or misleading advertising and unfair competition. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, collecting loans, and providing other services. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can subject the Bank to various penalties, 17 Table of Contents including but not limited to enforcement actions, injunctions, fines or criminal penalties, punitive damages to consumers, and the loss of certain contractual rights. Dodd-Frank provides for the creation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve. This bureau is a new regulatory agency for United States banks. It will have broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards, and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower’s ability to repay and prepayment penalties. The bureau’s functions include investigating consumer complaints, conducting market research, rulemaking, supervising and examining banks consumer transactions, and enforcing rules related to consumer financial products and services. It is anticipated that the bureau will begin regulating activities in 2011. Banks with less than $10 billion in assets, such as the Bank, will continue to be examined for compliance by their primary federal banking agency. Regulation of Non-bank Subsidiaries Non-bank subsidiaries are subject to additional or separate regulation and supervision by other state, federal and self-regulatory bodies. Employees At February 15, 2011, we employed 819 persons, 576 on a full-time and 243 on a part-time basis. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory. Available Information Reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) include our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These reports and other information on file can be inspected and copied on official business days between 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. at the public reference facilities of the Commission on file at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C., 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference rooms by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Commission maintains a Web Site that contains the reports, proxy and information statements and other information we file with them. The address of the site is http://www.sec.gov. The Company also maintains an Internet website at http://www.cbbank.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Proxy Statement, Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and current Report on Form 8-K, and any amendment there to, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with the SEC. None of the information contained in or hyperlinked from our website is incorporated into this Form 10-K. Executive Officers of the Company The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 15, 2011: Executive Officers: Name Position Age Christopher D. Myers President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Bank 48 Edward J. Biebrich Jr. Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Bank 67 James F. Dowd Executive Vice President/Credit Management Division of the Bank 58 David A. Brager Executive Vice President/Sales Division of the Bank 43 David C. Harvey Executive Vice President/Chief Operations Officer 43 Christopher A. Walters Executive Vice President/CitizensTrust Division of the Bank 47 Richard C. Thomas Executive Vice President/Finance and Accounting (incoming CFO) 62 18 Table of Contents Mr. Myers assumed the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Bank on August 1, 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Myers served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Mellon First Business Bank from 2004 to 2006. From 1996 to 2003, Mr. Myers held several management positions with Mellon First Business Bank, including Executive Vice President, Regional Vice President, and Vice President/Group Manager. Mr. Biebrich assumed the position of Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer of the Bank on February 2, 1998. On January 28, 2011, Mr. Biebrich submitted his notice of retirement, effective March 1, 2011. On February 1, 2011, CVB and the Bank announced the appointment of Richard C. Thomas to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CVB and the Bank, as of the close of business March 1, 2011. Mr. Dowd assumed the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer of the Bank on June 30, 2008. From 2006 to 2008, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer for Mellon First Business Bank. From 1991 to 2006, Mr. Dowd held several management positions with City National Bank, including Senior Vice President and Manager of Special Assets, Deputy Chief Credit Officer, and Interim Chief Credit Officer. Mr. Brager assumed the position of Executive Vice President and Sales Division Manager of the Bank on November 22, 2010. From 2007 to 2010, he served as Senior Vice President and Regional Manager of the Central Valley Region for the Bank. From 2003 to 2007, he served as Senior Vice President and Manager of the Fresno Business Financial Center for the Bank. From 1997 to 2003, Mr. Brager held management positions with Westamerica Bank. Mr. Harvey assumed the position of Executive Vice President of the Bank on December 31, 2009. From 2000 to 2008, he served as Senior Vice President and Operations Manager at Bank of the West. From 2008 to 2009 he served as Executive Vice President and Commercial and Treasury Services Manager at Bank of the West. Mr. Thomas assumed the position of Executive Vice President Finance and Accounting of the Bank on December 13, 2010. For ten months of 2010, Mr. Thomas served as Chief Risk Officer of Community Bank. From 1987 to 2009, he was an audit partner of Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Thomas will assume the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Bank as of the close of business March 1, 2011. Mr. Walters assumed the position of Executive Vice President of the Bank on June 27, 2007. From 2005 to 2006, he served as Senior Vice President for Atlantic Trust. From 2002 to 2004, he was Director of Private Banking for Citigroup. From 1994 to 2002, he served as a member of the Executive Committee and held a variety of management positions for Mellon Private Wealth Management. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results — Together with the other information on the risks we face and our management of risk contained in this Annual Report or in our other SEC filings, the following presents significant risks which may affect us. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also impair our business operations and results. Risk Relating to Recent Economic Conditions and Government Response Efforts Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and high unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. These economic conditions and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the economy and financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events, or any downward turn in the economy: • We face increased regulation of our industry as demonstrated by the adoption of Dodd-Frank. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • The Company’s commercial, residential and consumer borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the decrease in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans could result in significant credit losses, increasing delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. • The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected by increasing interest rates and defaults by debtors. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increase competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investments banks to bank holding companies may adversely affect the Company’s ability to market its products and services. If economic conditions do not significantly improve, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. Future legislation and regulations may be adopted which could result in a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that legislation and regulations will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of legislation and regulations to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the value of our securities. U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition As described in “Business — Economic Conditions, Government Policies, Legislation and Regulation”, turmoil and downward economic trends have been particularly acute in the financial sector. Although the Company and the Bank remain well capitalized and have not suffered any significant liquidity issues as a result of these events, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers continue to realize the impact of an economic slowdown, previous recession and ongoing high unemployment rates. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in Central and Southern California, we may be particularly susceptible to adverse economic conditions in the state of California, where our business is concentrated. In addition, adverse economic conditions may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Adverse conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results or operations and profitability. We may be required to make additional provisions for credit losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a $61.2 million provision for credit losses and charged off $65.5 million, net of $659,000 in recoveries. There has been a significant slowdown in the real estate markets in portions of Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino and Orange counties and the Central Valley area of California where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects declining prices in real estate, excess inventories of homes and increasing vacancies in commercial and industrial properties, all of which have contributed to financial strain on real estate developers and suppliers. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board and other government officials have expressed concerns about banks’ concentration in commercial real estate lending and the ability of commercial real estate borrowers to perform pursuant to the terms of their loans. As of December 31, 2010, we had $2.72 billion in real estate loans (which represents $2.27 billion in commercial real estate loans), $223.5 million in construction loans and $224.3 million in single family residential mortgages. Continuing deterioration in the real estate market, and in particular the commercial real estate market, could affect the ability of our loan customers to service their debt, which could result in loan charge-offs and provisions for credit losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, approximately eleven percent (11%) of our gross loan portfolio was comprised of dairy, livestock and agribusiness loans. Recent volatility in certain commodity prices, including milk prices, could adversely impact the ability of those to whom we have made dairy and livestock loans to perform under the terms of their borrowing arrangements with us. In addition, certain grains are being diverted from the food chain into the production of ethanol which is causing the price of feed stocks for dairies to rise, therefore putting pressure on margins of milk sales and cash flows. These situations as well as others could result in additional loan charge-offs and provisions for credit losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Market and Business Our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for credit losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance. The allowance is also appropriately increased for new loan growth. While we believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover inherent losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for credit losses further or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect our ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial service institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional clients. Defaults by financial services institutions, even rumors or questions about one or more financial institutions or the financial services industry in general, could lead to market wide liquidity problems and further, could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may increase when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our interest expense may increase following the repeal of the federal prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits The federal prohibition on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts was repealed as part of Dodd-Frank. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if the Bank begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and results of operations. Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets A further downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real 22 Table of Contents estate values, including values of land held for development, continue to decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans, including loans to our largest borrowing relationships, could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Commercial real estate loans typically involve large balances to single borrowers or group of related borrowers. Since payments on these loans are often dependent on the successful operation or management of the properties, as well as the business and financial condition of the borrower, repayment of such loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market, adverse economic conditions or changes in applicable government regulations. Additional risks associated with our construction loan portfolio include failure of contractors to complete construction on a timely basis or at all, market deterioration during construction, cost overruns and failure to sell or lease the security underlying the construction loans so as to generate the cash flow anticipated by our borrower. Continued declines in real estate values coupled with the current economic downturn and an associated increase in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or a lack of growth or decrease in deposits, which may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital or hurt our business. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. While we will take steps to mitigate this risk, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. We may experience goodwill impairment If our estimates of segment fair value change due to changes in our businesses or other factors, we may determine that impairment charges on goodwill recorded as a result of acquisitions are necessary. Estimates of fair value are determined based on a complex model using cash flows, the fair value of our Company as determined by our stock price, and company comparisons. If management’s estimates of future cash flows are inaccurate, fair value determined could be inaccurate and impairment may not be recognized in a timely manner. If the fair value of the Company declines, we may need to recognize goodwill impairment in the future which would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and capital levels. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. At December 31, 2010 our balance sheet was slightly liability sensitive and, as a result, our net interest margin tends to decline in a rising interest rate environment and expand in a declining interest rate environment. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment, we may need to accelerate the pace of rate increases on our deposit accounts as compared to the pace of future increases in short-term market rates. 23 Table of Contents Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality and loan origination volume. We are subject to extensive government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which, in turn, may hamper our ability to increase our assets and earnings Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. Perennially various laws, rules and regulations are proposed, which, if adopted, could impact our operations by making compliance much more difficult or expensive, restricting our ability to originate or sell loans or further restricting the amount of interest or other charges or fees earned on loans or other products. Additional requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect us. Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system have resulted in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, including expansive financial services regulatory reform legislation. Dodd-Frank sets out sweeping regulatory changes. Changes imposed by Dodd-Frank include, among others: (i) new requirements on banking, derivative and investment activities, including modified capital requirements, the repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on business demand accounts, and debit card interchange fee requirements; (ii) corporate governance and executive compensation requirements; (iii) enhanced financial institution safety and soundness regulations, including increases in assessment fees and deposit insurance coverage; and (iv) the establishment of new regulatory bodies, such as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. Certain provisions are effective immediately; however, much of the Financial Reform Act is subject to further rulemaking and/or studies. As such, while we are subject to the legislation, we cannot fully assess the impact of Dodd-Frank until final rules are implemented, which depending on the rule, could be within six to 24 months from the enactment of Dodd-Frank, or later. Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions and regulations, including those imposed under Dodd-Frank, may adversely impact our profitability and may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes required by the legislation and accompanying rules and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could adversely affect our earnings. As a result of a series of financial institution failures and other market developments, the deposit insurance fund, or DIF, of the FDIC has been significantly depleted and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required which we may be required to pay. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The impact of the new Basel III capital standards will likely impose enhanced capital adequacy standards on us. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III, which were approved in November 2010 by the G20 leadership. Basel III 24 Table of Contents increases the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and introduces a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7%. Basel III increases the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5% inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, increases the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5% inclusive of the capital buffer and introduces a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The Basel III capital and liquidity standards will be phased in over a multi-year period. The Federal Reserve will likely implement changes to the capital adequacy standards applicable to us and the Bank which will increase our capital requirements and compliance costs. Failure to manage our growth may adversely affect our performance Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to manage past and possible future growth. Future acquisitions and our continued growth may present operating, integration and other issues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. On October 16, 2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed substantially all of the liabilities of San Joaquin Bank from the FDIC. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of additional failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Although we have entered into a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC in connection with our acquisition of loans from San Joaquin Bank, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately manage the loan portfolio within the limits of the loss protections provided by the FDIC from the San Joaquin Bank acquisition or any other FDIC-assisted acquisition we may make. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and net income Income that we recognized and continue to recognize in connection with our 2009 FDIC-assisted San Joaquin Bank acquisition may be non-recurring or finite in duration. Through the acquisition of San Joaquin, we acquired approximately $673.1 million of assets and assumed $660.9 million of liabilities. The San Joaquin Bank acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and we recorded an after-tax bargain purchase gain totaling $12.3 million as a result of the acquisition. This gain was included as a component of other operating income on our statement of earnings for 2009. The amount of the gain was equal to the amount by which the fair value of assets purchased exceeded the fair value of liabilities. The bargain purchase gain resulting from the acquisition was a one-time gain that is not expected to be repeated in future periods. In addition, the loans that we acquired from San Joaquin Bank were acquired at a $199.8 million discount. Approximately $197.7 million of this discount represents the non accretable discount and $2.1 million of the discount represents the adjustment for the differences between current market interest rates and the contractual interest rates on the acquired loans. The accretable discount is amortized and accreted to interest income on a monthly basis, in accordance with ASC 310-30, Loans and Debt securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality. However, as these loans are paid-off, charged-off, sold, or transferred to OREO, the income from the discount accretion is reduced. As the acquired loans are removed from our books, the related discount will no longer 25 Table of Contents be available for accretion into income. During 2009, no accelerated accretion on loans was recorded in interest income. During 2010, $26.7 million in accelerated accretion was recorded in interest income. As of December 31, 2010, the balance of the carrying value of our discount on loans was $114.8 million, which has decreased by $69.6 million from its carrying value of $184.4 million as of December 31, 2009 and by $85.0 million from its initial value of $199.8 million. The reduction in the discount from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010 is primarily due to $42.2 million in loan charge-offs and $26.7 million in accelerated accretion. The reduction in discount from the initial value to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to $15.1 million in loan charge-offs. We expect the continued reduction of discount accretion recorded as interest income in future quarters, especially related to accelerated accretion. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired, including the FDIC loss sharing assets, could be different than initially estimated which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. We acquired significant portfolios of loans in the San Joaquin Bank acquisition. Although these loans were marked down to their estimated fair value, there is no assurance that the acquired loans will not suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs in the loan portfolio that we acquired from San Joaquin Bank and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition, even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC which provide that a significant portion of losses related to the assets acquired from San Joaquin Bank will be borne by the FDIC, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those assets. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms. Therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreement on covered assets depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreement. We must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreement as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on covered assets. The required terms of the agreement are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. As of December 31, 2010, $385.3 million, or 6.0%, of our assets were covered by the FDIC loss sharing agreement. No assurances can be given that we will manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss share coverage on all such assets. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services We conduct most of our operations in California. The banking and financial services businesses in California are highly competitive and increased competition in our primary market area may adversely impact the level of our loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits. 26 Table of Contents We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. In addition, legislation and regulations which impose restrictions on executive compensation may make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, and certain other employees. In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, many of whom are at or nearing retirement age, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation. We are subject to a pending investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and a consolidated class action lawsuit which could adversely affect us. We are subject to an investigation by the SEC. In addition, two class action lawsuits, which have now been consolidated, were filed against us and certain of our officers. We are unable, at this time, to estimate our potential liability in these matters, but may be required to pay judgments, settlements or other penalties and incur other costs and expenses in connection with this investigation and the consolidated lawsuit which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, responding to requests for information in this investigation and litigation may divert internal resources away from managing our business. See “Legal Proceedings” Federal and state laws and regulations may restrict our ability to pay dividends The ability for the Bank to pay dividends to us and for us to pay dividends to our shareholders is limited by applicable federal and California law and regulations. See “Business — Regulation and Supervision” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Cash Flow.” The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading 27 Table of Contents volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional shareholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility recently. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified above in “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statement”. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Anti-takeover provisions and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline Various provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either Federal Reserve approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the Federal Reserve and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a state member bank, such as the Bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Changes in stock market prices could reduce fee income from our brokerage, asset management and investment advisory businesses We earn substantial wealth management fee income for managing assets for our clients and also providing brokerage and investment advisory services. Because investment management and advisory fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. 28 Table of Contents We may face other risks From time to time, we detail other risks with respect to our business and/or financial results in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For further discussion on additional areas of risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and the Results of Operations — Risk Management.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 