Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our Common Stock involves various risks. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. When considering an investment in our Common Stock, you should consider carefully all of the risk factors described below, as well as other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report. The risk factors described below are not the only ones we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be affected by additional factors that are not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic or political conditions. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements on page 1 of this Report. All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below. 5 The proposed merger with Teledyne may disrupt our business and, if the merger does not occur, our stock price may decline, we will have incurred significant expenses, and we may need to pay a fee to Teledyne. As previously announced, on September 3, 2014 we entered into a merger agreement with Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (“Teledyne”) pursuant to which Teledyne will acquire all of our common stock for $22.00 per share in cash (the “Merger”). The Merger, whether or not consummated, may result in a loss of key personnel and may disrupt our sales and marketing or other key business activities, including our relationships with third parties, including customers, which may have an adverse impact on our financial performance. The merger agreement in general requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the Merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that may affect our ability to execute our business strategies and attain our financial goals. In addition, the merger agreement prohibits us from, among other things, declaring any further dividends, granting any stock options or restricted stock or repurchasing shares of our common stock, in each case prior to the earlier of the consummation of the Merger or the termination of the merger agreement. Additionally, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial financial advisory, legal, and other professional fees and expenses in connection with the Merger, which must be paid even if the Merger is not completed. The obligation of Teledyne to complete the Merger is subject to several conditions, including the adoption of the merger agreement by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding shares of common stock, the expiration or early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1974 and other conditions customary for a transaction of this type. These conditions are described in more detail in the merger agreement, which was filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 3, 2014. There is no assurance that each of the conditions set forth in the merger agreement will be satisfied or that the Merger will occur when or as expected. If the Merger is not completed, the share price of our common stock may change to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed. Under certain circumstances, if the Merger is not completed, we may be required to pay Teledyne a termination fee of $7,500,000 or pay $1,000,000 to reimburse Teledyne for its transaction related expenses. We are involved in litigation relating to the merger agreement that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. As described in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report, “Legal Proceedings”, we, Teledyne, Lightning Merger Sub, Inc. and the individual members of our board of directors have been named as defendants in a lawsuit related to the merger agreement and the proposed merger with Teledyne. This lawsuit generally alleges that in entering into the proposed transaction with Teledyne, the defendants have breached their fiduciary duties of good faith, loyalty and due care, and/or have aided and abetted such breaches. Although we believe this lawsuit is without merit, the defense of this lawsuit may be expensive and may divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. The current uncertainties of the global economy could materially and adversely impact our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. The global economic recession that began in 2008 caused a decrease in the demand for crude oil and natural gas. This, in turn, resulted in a slowdown in marine seismic exploration activity and a decrease in the demand for many of the Company’s seismic data acquisition products. Although economic conditions have shown general improvement, economic conditions remain uncertain, including with respect to the European Union countries and possible slowing of economic growth in China. If economic conditions continue to remain uncertain or deteriorate, marine seismic exploration activity could be reduced, resulting in declines in demand for our seismic data acquisition products. Economic conditions also could negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay for products provided by the Company either on a timely basis or at all. The Company may incur goodwill impairment losses if economic conditions result in lower demand for products sold by its subsidiaries. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and/or results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if uncertain economic conditions and tight credit market conditions continue to exist, the market value of our Common Stock could be adversely affected unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, which is affected by factors outside of our control, affects demand for our seismic data acquisition products. Sales of our seismic data acquisition products correlate highly with crude oil and natural gas price trends, which are typically cyclical. If crude oil and natural gas prices are high, marine seismic activity typically increases. This increases demand for our seismic data acquisition products. If crude oil and natural gas prices are low, the level of marine seismic activity typically decreases. This decreases demand for our seismic data acquisition products. In extreme cases, when crude oil and natural gas prices are significantly lower, older seismic vessels may be decommissioned and our equipment on those ships may be removed and put into storage for future use. Under such a scenario, our revenues could decrease while our customers deplete stored inventories prior to placing new orders. Accordingly, a decrease in crude oil and natural gas prices could decrease our customers’ activity and decrease demand for our seismic data acquisition products. Any decrease in demand for our seismic data acquisition products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Crude oil and natural gas prices are typically volatile and are affected by many factors, including: • the level of worldwide crude oil and natural gas production and exploration activity • worldwide economic conditions and their effect on worldwide demand for energy • the policies of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries • the cost of producing crude oil and natural gas • the cost of capital and interest rates • technological advances affecting hydrocarbon consumption • environmental regulation • the level of crude oil and natural gas inventories • tax policies • weather-related factors that may disrupt crude oil and natural gas exploration • the policies of national governments • war, civil disturbances and political instability We expect prices for crude oil and natural gas to continue to be volatile due to circumstances outside of our control and to continue to affect our customers’ level of activity and the demand for our seismic data acquisition products. Changes in environmental requirements relating to climate change may result in a decline in crude oil and natural gas exploration and production. State and national governments and state, national and international agencies have been evaluating climate related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could reduce the worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas. Likewise, such restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture and use of carbon dioxide that could also reduce the demand for crude oil and natural gas. Such reduction in demand for crude oil and natural gas could negatively affect the demand for our marine seismic data acquisition products and could have a material adverse impact on our business. 6 Technological change in the marine seismic and underwater robotic vehicles industries and/or changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may render our technology obsolete and require us to make substantial research and development expenditures. The market for our products is characterized by changing technology and new product introductions. Our marine seismic data acquisition and/or underwater robotic vehicle technologies may become obsolete due to the introduction of a superior technology or changes in environmental or other laws and regulations. In addition, increased regulation for the protection of the environment, including marine life, or other changes in laws and regulations by the U.S. or foreign regulatory authorities, could necessitate changes in our technology or development of new technology to conform to such regulatory requirements. We may be required to invest substantial capital to develop and produce new and enhanced products to stay abreast of technological change or changes in environmental or other laws and regulations. We have no assurance that we will receive an adequate rate of return on such investment. If we are unable to stay abreast of technological change or changes in environmental or other laws and regulations, we will be unable to compete effectively in the future. If we are not competitive, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially, adversely affected. Loss of any major customer or consolidation among major customers could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In our marine seismic data acquisition segments, we have a concentration of business with a small number of major customers who are independent contractors performing marine seismic surveys on behalf of major oil companies. Sales to these major customers are significant in relation to our consolidated revenues. In addition, a large percentage of our consolidated accounts receivable balance at the end of any accounting period is from these customers. Purchases of the Company’s products by these customers are typically based on a purchase order or contract relating to a specific order. The loss of any major customer or a significant decrease in the amount of its purchases could have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. This risk would increase if consolidation of oil service companies continues. Additional information relating to concentration of business with a small number of major customers is provided in Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from sales to customers in foreign countries, which pose additional risks including economic, political and other uncertainties. Our foreign sales are significant in relation to consolidated sales. In fiscal year 2014, sales outside of the United States accounted for approximately 63% of our consolidated net sales. We believe that export sales will remain a significant percentage of our revenue. Our sales contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could make it more difficult for our overseas customers to meet their U.S. dollar obligations. In addition, sales of our products to customers operating in foreign countries that experience political/economic instability or armed conflict could result in difficulties in delivering and installing complete seismic energy source systems within those geographic areas and receiving payment from these customers. Furthermore, restrictions under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar legislation in other countries, or trade embargoes or similar restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other countries, could limit our ability to do business in certain foreign countries. These factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Refer to Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to foreign sales. We derive a significant amount of our underwater robotic vehicle revenues from specific major customer groups. Sales to the defense industry, state and local governmental units, fire and rescue organizations and educational institutions for our underwater robotic vehicles segment are significant for the segment. These customer groups pose additional risks due to economic and political conditions and other uncertainties. Budgetary constraints, funding cuts or changes in the economic and/or the political climate could have a material, adverse effect on the sales and profitability of the underwater robotic vehicles segment. We experience fluctuations in operating results. Complete air gun systems sales and/or a large shipment of underwater robotic vehicles to a specific customer typically are large dollar amounts and do not occur in every accounting period. In certain periods, several complete air gun systems and/or large underwater robotic vehicles sales may be recorded, and none in other periods. This “uneven” sales pattern is due largely to our customers’ schedules for the anticipated completion date for building a new seismic vessel, the target date for outfitting a conventional vessel to do seismic work and/or the target date to deliver a large quantity of robotic vehicles to a specific customer. In addition, customer demand for air gun replacement parts, underwater cables and connectors and seismic energy source controllers is ongoing, but the demand level for these products varies based on crude oil and natural gas prices and trends. The demand level for SBX’s products are subject to fluctuations in government spending, particularly the defense industry. Accordingly, our results of operations can vary significantly from one fiscal quarter to another and from one fiscal year to another. An impairment of goodwill could reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. Our consolidated goodwill balance at June 30, 2014 accounts for approximately 21% of our total assets at that date. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets of the business. Our goodwill balance relates exclusively to the acquisition of subsidiaries. Generally accepted accounting principles require us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. If we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill was impaired, we would record an immediate non cash charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in goodwill. Refer to Notes 1 and 5 to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to goodwill. 7 An impairment of other intangible assets could reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. Our consolidated other intangible assets balance at June 30, 2014 accounts for approximately 7% of our total assets at that date. Other intangible assets arose primarily from the acquisition of trade name, technology and customer/distributor relationship assets in connection with the RTS and SBX acquisitions. Generally accepted accounting principles require us to test for impairment of intangible assets with definite and indefinite lives annually, or more frequently, if there are indicators of impairment. If we were to determine that any of our remaining balance of other intangible assets was impaired, we would record an immediate non cash charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction in other intangible assets. Refer to Notes 1 and 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to other intangible assets. Weak sales demand or obsolescence of our inventory may require an increase to our inventory valuation reserve. A significant source of our revenue arises from the sale of replacement parts required by customers who have previously purchased our products. As a result, we maintain a large quantity of parts on hand that may not be sold or used in final assemblies for a lengthy period of time. Management has established an inventory valuation reserve to recognize that certain inventory may become obsolete or supplies may be excessive. The inventory valuation reserve is a significant estimate made by management based on experience and the exercise of professional judgment. The actual results may differ from this estimate, and the difference could be material. The inventory valuation reserve is adjusted at the close of each accounting period based on management’s estimate of the valuation reserve required. This estimate is calculated on a consistent basis as determined by our inventory valuation policy. Increases to the inventory valuation reserve result in a charge to cost of sales and decreases to the reserve result in a credit to cost of sales. The inventory valuation reserve is also decreased when items are scrapped or disposed of. Weak sales demand or obsolescence may require an increase to the inventory valuation reserve. Such an increase may have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations with a corresponding decrease to inventory. Refer to Notes 1 and 3 to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to the inventory valuation reserve. We may be unable to obtain or maintain broad intellectual property protection for our current and future products. This could result in loss of revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. Certain of the proprietary technologies used in our products are not patent protected. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, and common law protections to protect our proprietary technologies. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, our competitors may attempt to copy aspects of our products or may design around the proprietary features of our products. Also, the laws of certain foreign countries do not offer as much protection for proprietary rights as the laws of the United States. Further, obtaining, maintaining or defending intellectual property rights in many countries is costly. The costs of pursuing any intellectual property claim against a third party, whether in the United States or in a foreign country, could be significant. From time to time third parties may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Addressing or defending any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and possible injunctions, require product modifications, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of any member of our senior management and other key employees may adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends heavily on the continued services of our senior management and other key employees. Our senior management consists of a small number of individuals relative to larger companies. These individuals, as well as other key employees, possess sales and marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. We generally do not have employment or non-competition agreements with members of our senior management or other key employees, except for employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, our President and certain SBX employees. If we lose the services of one or more of our senior management or other key employees and are not successful in filling such positions(s), our operations may be materially, adversely affected. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares for a premium. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from obtaining control of the Company. These provisions may reduce or eliminate our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares of Common Stock at a premium. They include a classified board, regulation of the nomination and election of directors, limitations on who may call special stockholder meetings and requirement of the vote of the holders of 95% of all shares of our stock to authorize certain business combinations. 8 The market price of our Common Stock may be volatile. The market price of our Common Stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors cause the market price of our Common Stock to fluctuate, including, but not limited to (i) the volume of trading in our Common Stock, (ii) purchases and sales of our Common Stock by large institutional investors, (iii) the price of crude oil and natural gas, (iv) economic prospects for the marine seismic exploration and underwater robotics industries, (v) the Company’s actual and projected operating results and (vi) general worldwide economic and political conditions. We have a significant contingent earnout liability relating to the acquisition of SeaBotix Inc. which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and results of operations. Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement for the acquisition of SeaBotix Inc., we may be obligated to pay additional earnout payments during the six month period ending December 31, 2014 if SBX’s annual gross revenues exceed $10,000,000 per calendar year, subject to a minimum gross profit percentage. As of June 30, 2014, the Company had accrued $2,810,000 for such potential earnout payments, based on management’s assessment of the likelihood that certain revenue levels will be achieved for the calendar year ending December 31, 2014, which is the end of the earnout period. If during the last half of calendar year 2014, management assesses that higher revenue levels are likely to be achieved, then we will need to accrue additional amounts. Such additional accrual could adversely impact our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Refer to Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to the SBX earnout. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 