ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results — Together with the other information on the risks we face and our management of risk contained in this Annual Report or in our other SEC filings, the following presents significant risks which may affect us. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also impair our business operations and results. Risk Relating to Recent Economic Conditions and Government Response Efforts Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry After suffering sharp declines over the past several years, the pace of housing price declines has appeared to slow more recently, although existing delinquencies and foreclosures continue to create overhang. This in turn has negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, while there are signs that general economic conditions, including the employment markets, have started to show improvement, such signs remain tentative, and compared to prior periods of growth, most areas and industries continue to experience reduced availability of commercial credit and high unemployment. This in turn has negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. These economic conditions and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the economy and financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events, or any downward turn in the economy: • We face increased regulation of our industry as demonstrated by the adoption of Dodd-Frank. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • The Company’s commercial, residential and consumer borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the decrease in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans could result in significant credit losses, increasing delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. • The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected by increasing interest rates and defaults by debtors. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in difficulty in accessing capital or an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investments banks to bank holding companies may adversely affect the Company’s ability to market its products and services. 18 Table of Contents • We are subject to cybersecurity risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. In certain cases, we are responsible for protecting customers’ proprietary information as well as their accounts with us. We have security measures and processes in place to defend against these cybersecurity risks but these cyber attacks are rapidly evolving and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of privacy or other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. If economic conditions do not significantly improve, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. Future legislation and regulations may be adopted which could result in a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that legislation and regulations will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of legislation and regulations to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the value of our securities. U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition As described in “Business — Economic Conditions, Government Policies, Legislation and Regulation”, turmoil and downward economic trends have been particularly acute in the financial sector. Although the Company and the Bank remain well capitalized and have not suffered any significant liquidity issues as a result of these events, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers continue to realize the impact of an economic slowdown, previous recession and ongoing high unemployment rates. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in Central and Southern California, we may be particularly susceptible to adverse economic conditions in the state of California, where our business is concentrated. In addition, adverse economic conditions may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Adverse conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results or operations and profitability. We may be required to make additional provisions for credit losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a $7.1 million provision for credit losses, charged off $20.5 million, and had net recoveries of $2.2 million. There has been a significant slowdown in the real estate markets in portions of Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino and Orange counties, and the Central Valley area of California where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects declining prices in real estate, excess inventories of homes and increasing vacancies in commercial and industrial properties, all of which have contributed to financial strain on real estate developers and suppliers. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board and other government officials have expressed concerns about banks’ concentration in commercial real estate lending and the ability of commercial real estate borrowers to perform pursuant to the terms of their loans. As of December 31, 2011, we had $2.17 billion in commercial real estate loans, $94.8 million in construction loans and $179.7 million in single family residential mortgages. Although there are signs that the U.S. economy is now appearing to emerge from recession, deterioration in the real estate market, and in particular the commercial real estate market, could affect the ability of our loan customers to service their debt. This which could result in loan charge-offs and provisions for credit losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. 19 Table of Contents Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, approximately ten percent (10.5%) of our gross loan portfolio was comprised of dairy, livestock and agribusiness loans. Recent volatility in certain commodity prices, including milk prices, could adversely impact the ability of those to whom we have made dairy and livestock loans to perform under the terms of their borrowing arrangements with us. In addition, certain grains are being diverted from the food chain into the production of ethanol which is causing the price of feed stocks for dairies to remain high, therefore putting pressure on margins of milk sales and cash flows. These situations, as well as others, could result in additional loan charge-offs and provisions for credit losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. Risks Related to Our Market and Business Our allowance for credit losses may not be appropriate to cover actual losses A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for credit losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance. The allowance is also appropriately increased for new loan growth. While we believe that our allowance for credit losses is appropriate to cover inherent losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for credit losses further or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect our ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial service institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional clients. Defaults by financial services institutions, even rumors or questions about one or more financial institutions or the financial services industry in general, could lead to market wide liquidity problems and further, could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may increase when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our interest expense may increase following the repeal of the federal prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits The federal prohibition on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts was repealed as part of Dodd-Frank. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could 20 Table of Contents commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. While the Company has not yet incurred significant deposit costs as a result of this repeal, it is possible that our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if the Bank begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and results of operations. Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets A further downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values, including values of land held for development, continue to decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Commercial real estate loans typically involve large balances to single borrowers or group of related borrowers. Since payments on these loans are often dependent on the successful operation or management of the properties, as well as the business and financial condition of the borrower, repayment of such loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market, adverse economic conditions or changes in applicable government regulations. Additional risks associated with our construction loan portfolio include failure of contractors to complete construction on a timely basis or at all, market deterioration during construction, cost overruns and failure to sell or lease the security underlying the construction loans so as to generate the cash flow anticipated by our borrower. Continued declines in real estate values, coupled with the current economic downturn and an associated increase in unemployment, may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or a lack of growth or decrease in deposits, which may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital or hurt our business. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. While we will take steps to mitigate this risk, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. We may experience goodwill impairment If our estimates of segment fair value change due to changes in our businesses or other factors, we may determine that impairment charges on goodwill recorded as a result of acquisitions are necessary. Estimates of fair value are determined based on a complex model using cash flows, the fair value of our Company as determined by our stock price, and company comparisons. If management’s estimates of future cash flows are inaccurate, fair value determined could be inaccurate and impairment may not be recognized in a timely manner. If the fair value of the Company declines, we may need to recognize goodwill impairment in the future which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and capital levels. 21 Table of Contents Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. At December 31, 2011 our balance sheet was slightly liability sensitive and, as a result, our net interest margin tends to decline in a rising interest rate environment and expand in a declining interest rate environment. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment, we may need to accelerate the pace of rate increases on our deposit accounts as compared to the pace of future increases in short-term market rates. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality and loan origination volume. We are subject to extensive government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which, in turn, may hamper our ability to increase our assets and earnings Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. Perennially various laws, rules and regulations are proposed, which, if adopted, could impact our operations by making compliance much more difficult or expensive, restricting our ability to originate or sell loans or further restricting the amount of interest or other charges or fees earned on loans or other products. Additional requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect us. Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system have resulted in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, including expansive financial services regulatory reform legislation. Dodd-Frank sets out sweeping regulatory changes. Changes imposed by Dodd-Frank include, among others: (i) new requirements on banking, derivative and investment activities, including modified capital requirements, the repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on business demand accounts, and debit card interchange fee requirements; (ii) corporate governance and executive compensation requirements; (iii) enhanced financial institution safety and soundness regulations, including increases in assessment fees and deposit insurance coverage; and (iv) the establishment of new regulatory bodies, such as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. Certain provisions are effective immediately; however, much of the Financial Reform Act is subject to further rulemaking and/or studies. As such, while we are subject to the legislation, we cannot fully assess the impact of Dodd-Frank until more final rules are implemented. Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions and regulations, including those imposed under Dodd-Frank, may adversely impact our profitability and may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes required by the legislation and accompanying rules and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could adversely affect our earnings. As a result of a series of financial institution failures and other market developments, the deposit insurance fund, or DIF, of the FDIC has been significantly depleted and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. 22 Table of Contents As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required which we may be required to pay. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The impact of the new Basel III capital standards will likely impose enhanced capital adequacy standards on us. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III, which were approved in November 2010 by the G20 leadership. Basel III increases the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and introduces a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7%. Basel III increases the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5% inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, increases the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5% inclusive of the capital buffer and introduces a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The Basel III capital and liquidity standards will be phased in over a multi-year period. The Federal Reserve will likely implement changes to the capital adequacy standards applicable to us and the Bank which will increase our capital requirements and compliance costs. Failure to manage our growth may adversely affect our performance Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to manage past and possible future growth. Future acquisitions and our continued growth may present operating, integration and other issues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services. Fear of security breaches (including cybersecurity breaches) could limit the growth of our online services We offer various internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintain our clients’ confidence in our online services. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect client transaction data. In addition, individuals may seek to intentionally disrupt our online banking services or compromise the confidentiality of customer information with criminal intent. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services, result in costly litigation and loss of customer relationships, negatively impact the Bank’s reputation, and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our controls and procedures could fail or be circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurances of the effectiveness of these systems and controls, and that the objectives of these controls have been met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, and any failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents We may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business On October 16, 2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed substantially all of the liabilities of San Joaquin Bank from the FDIC. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of additional failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Although we have entered into a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC in connection with our acquisition of loans from San Joaquin Bank, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately manage the loan portfolio within the limits of the loss protections provided by the FDIC from the San Joaquin Bank acquisition or any other FDIC-assisted acquisition we may make. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and net income. Income that we recognized and continue to recognize in connection with our 2009 FDIC-assisted San Joaquin Bank acquisition may be non-recurring or finite in duration Through the acquisition of San Joaquin Bank, we acquired approximately $673.1 million of assets and assumed $660.9 million of liabilities. The San Joaquin Bank acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and we recorded an after-tax bargain purchase gain totaling $12.3 million as a result of the acquisition. This gain was included as a component of other operating income on our statement of earnings for 2009. The amount of the gain was equal to the amount by which the fair value of assets purchased exceeded the fair value of liabilities. The bargain purchase gain resulting from the acquisition was a one-time gain that is not expected to be repeated in future periods. In addition, the loans that we acquired from San Joaquin Bank were acquired at a $199.8 million discount. Approximately $197.7 million of this discount represents the non accretable discount and $2.1 million of the discount represents the adjustment for the differences between current market interest rates and the contractual interest rates on the acquired loans. The accretable discount is amortized and accreted to interest income on a monthly basis, in accordance with ASC 310-30, Loans and Debt securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality. However, as these loans are paid-off, charged-off, sold, or transferred to OREO, the income from the discount accretion is reduced. As the acquired loans are removed from our books, the related discount will no longer be available for accretion into income. During 2009, no accelerated accretion on loans was recorded in interest income. During 2011 and 2010, $12.6 million and $26.7 million in accelerated accretion were recorded in interest income. As of December 31, 2011, the balance of the carrying value of our discount on loans was $50.8 million, which has decreased by $64.0 million from its carrying value of $114.8 million as of December 31, 2010, by $133.6 million from its carrying value of $184.4 million as of December 31, 2009 and by $149.0 million from its initial value of $199.8 million. The reduction in the discount from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 was primarily due to $36.6 million in loan charge-offs and $12.6 million in accelerated accretion. The reduction in the discount from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010 is primarily due to $42.2 million in loan charge-offs and $26.7 million in accelerated accretion. The reduction in discount from the initial value to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to $15.1 million in loan charge-offs. We expect the continued reduction of discount accretion recorded as interest income in future quarters, especially related to accelerated accretion. 24 Table of Contents Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired, including the FDIC loss sharing assets, could be different than initially estimated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. We acquired significant portfolios of loans in the San Joaquin Bank acquisition. Although these loans were marked down to their estimated fair value, there is no assurance that the acquired loans will not suffer further deterioration in value resulting in additional charge-offs. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs in the loan portfolio that we acquired from San Joaquin Bank and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition, even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC which provide that a significant portion of losses related to the assets acquired from San Joaquin Bank will be borne by the FDIC, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those assets. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms. Therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreement on covered assets depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreement. We must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreement as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on covered assets. The required terms of the agreement are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. As of December 31, 2011, $262.5 million, or 4.1%, of our assets were covered by the FDIC loss sharing agreement. No assurances can be given that we will manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss share coverage on all such assets. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services We conduct most of our operations in California. The banking and financial services businesses in California are highly competitive and increased competition in our primary market area may adversely impact the level of our loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to offer products at lower costs, maintain numerous locations, and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, the Bank’s reputation, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to 25 Table of Contents identify alternative sources of such services, which may result in increased costs or other consequences that in turn could have an adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. In addition, legislation and regulations which impose restrictions on executive compensation may make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, and certain other employees. In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, some of whom may be considering retirement, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation. We are subject to a pending investigation by the SEC, a consolidated class action lawsuit and a similar state law derivative action which could adversely affect us. We are subject to an investigation by the SEC. In addition, two federal securities class action lawsuits, which have been consolidated, were filed against us and certain of our officers, and a state law derivative action was filed in the name of the Company against our directors. Although the consolidated federal action was dismissed by the federal district court subsequent to the end of 2011, on January 12, 2011, the plaintiffs were given leave by the court to file an amended complaint, which the plaintiffs may decide to pursue. We are unable, at this time, to estimate our potential liability in these matters, but may be required to pay judgments, settlements or other penalties and incur other costs and expenses in connection with the SEC investigation and the consolidated lawsuit which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, responding to requests for information in the SEC investigation and the federal and state lawsuits may divert internal resources away from managing our business. See “Legal Proceedings” Federal and state laws and regulations may restrict our ability to pay dividends The ability for the Bank to pay dividends to the Company and for the Company to pay dividends to its shareholders is limited by applicable federal and California law and regulations. See “Business — Regulation and Supervision” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Cash Flow.” 26 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in its share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional shareholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect the Company and/or the Bank; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to the Company’s performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, experienced significant volatility in recent years. The market price of our common stock and the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified above in “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statement”. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than three years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Anti-takeover provisions and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline Various provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and certain other actions we have taken could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either Federal Reserve approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the Federal Reserve and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a state member bank, such as the Bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Changes in stock market prices could reduce fee income from our brokerage, asset management and investment advisory businesses We earn substantial wealth management fee income for managing assets for our clients and also providing brokerage and investment advisory services. Because investment management and advisory fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. We may face other risks From time to time, we detail other risks with respect to our business and/or financial results in our filings with the SEC. For further discussion on additional areas of risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and the Results of Operations — Risk Management.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 