ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS For additional information for certain risk factors enumerated below and other risks of the Company and its operations, see “Forward-Looking Statements” above and HEI’s MD&A, HEI’s “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” HEI’s Consolidated Financial Statements, HECO’s MD&A and HECO’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference to HEI Exhibit 13 and HECO Exhibit 99 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 19, 2010. Holding Company and Company-Wide Risks. HEI is a holding company that derives its income from its operating subsidiaries and depends on the ability of those subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to HEI and on its own ability to raise capital. HEI is a legal entity separate and distinct from its various subsidiaries. As a holding company with no significant operations of its own, HEI’s cash flows and consequent ability to service its obligations and pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon its receipt of dividends or other distributions from its operating subsidiaries and its ability to issue common stock or other equity securities and to incur additional debt. The ability of HEI’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to HEI, in turn, is subject to the risks associated with their operations and to contractual and regulatory restrictions, including: • the provisions of an HEI agreement with the PUC, which could limit the ability of HEI’s principal electric public utility subsidiary, HECO, to pay dividends to HEI in the event that the consolidated common stock equity of the electric public utility subsidiaries falls below 35% of total capitalization of the electric utilities; • the provisions of an HEI agreement entered into with federal bank regulators in connection with its acquisition of its bank subsidiary, ASB, which require HEI to contribute additional capital to ASB (up to a maximum amount of additional capital of $28.3 million as of December 31, 2009) upon request of the regulators in order to maintain ASB’s regulatory capital at the level required by regulation; • the minimum capital and capital distribution regulations of the OTS that are applicable to ASB; • the receipt of a letter from the OTS stating it has no objection to the payment of any dividend ASB proposes to declare and pay to HEI; and • the provisions of preferred stock resolutions and debt instruments of HEI and its subsidiaries. The Company is subject to risks associated with the Hawaii economy, volatile U.S. capital markets and changes in the interest rate and credit market environment that have and/or could result in higher retirement benefit plan funding requirements, declines in electric utility KWH sales, declines in ASB’s interest rate margins and investment values, higher delinquencies and charge-offs in ASB’s loan portfolio and restrictions on the ability of HEI or its subsidiaries to borrow money or issue securities. The two largest components of Hawaii’s economy are tourism and the federal government (including the military). Because the core businesses of HEI’s subsidiaries are providing local public electric utility services (through HECO and its subsidiaries) and banking services (through ASB and its subsidiaries) in Hawaii, the Company’s operating results are significantly influenced by Hawaii’s economy, which in turn is influenced by economic conditions in the mainland U.S. (particularly California) and Asia (particularly Japan) as a result of the impact of those conditions on tourism, by the impact of interest rates on the construction and real estate industries and by the impact of world conditions (e.g., U.S. presence in Iraq and Afghanistan) on federal government spending in Hawaii. The turmoil in the financial markets and declines in the national and global economies have had a negative effect on the Hawaii economy. Declines in the Hawaii, U.S. and Asian economies, have led to declines in KWH sales in 2009 (2009 sales decline of 2.5% from 2008) an increase in uncollected billings of HECO and its subsidiaries, higher 30 Table of Contents delinquencies in ASB’s loan portfolio and other adverse effects on HEI’s businesses. The utilities’ 2010 KWH sales are currently expected to decrease by 0.9% from 2009. Given the weak economy, the Company’s and consolidated HECO’s earnings may decline and ratings may be threatened. If S&P or Moody’s were to downgrade HEI’s or HECO’s long-term debt ratings because of these adverse effects, or if future events were to adversely affect the availability of capital to the Company, HEI’s and HECO’s ability to borrow and raise capital could be constrained and their future borrowing costs would likely increase with resulting reductions in HEI’s consolidated net income in future periods. Further, if HEI’s or HECO’s commercial paper ratings were to be downgraded, HEI and HECO might not be able to sell commercial paper and might be required to draw on more expensive bank lines of credit or to defer capital or other expenditures. Changes in the U.S. capital markets can also have significant effects on the Company. For example, pension funding requirements are affected by the market performance of the assets in the master pension trust maintained for pension plans, and by the discount rate used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic pension cost and value obligations. The electric utilities’ pension tracking mechanisms help moderate pension expense; however, the significant decline in 2008 in the value of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan assets resulted in a substantial gap between the projected benefit obligations under the plans and the value of plan assets, resulting in increases in funding requirements. Because the earnings of ASB depend primarily on net interest income, interest rate risk is a significant risk of ASB’s operations. HEI and its electric utility subsidiaries are also exposed to interest rate risk primarily due to their periodic borrowing requirements, the discount rate used to determine pension funding requirements and the possible effect of interest rates on the electric utilities’ rates of return. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors, including general economic conditions and the policies of government and regulatory authorities. HEI cannot predict future changes in interest rates, nor be certain that interest rate risk management strategies it or its subsidiaries have implemented will be successful in managing interest rate risk. Interest rate risk also represents a market risk factor affecting the fair value of ASB’s investment securities. Increases and decreases in prevailing interest rates generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of those instruments. In 2008 and 2009, the credit markets experienced significant disruptions, liquidity on many financial instruments declined and residential mortgage delinquencies and defaults increased. These disruptions negatively impacted the fair value of ASB’s investment portfolio and led ASB, in the fourth quarter of 2009, to sell all private-issue mortgage-related securities in its investment portfolio in order to further improve its credit risk profile and reduce the potential volatility of future earnings. HEI and HECO and their subsidiaries may incur higher retirement benefits expenses and have and will likely continue to recognize substantial liabilities for retirement benefits. Retirement benefits expenses and cash funding requirements could increase in future years depending on numerous factors, including the performance of the U.S. equity markets, trends in interest rates and health care costs, plan amendments, new laws relating to pension funding and changes in accounting principles. For the electric utilities, however, retirement benefits expenses, as adjusted by the pension tracking mechanisms, have been an allowable expense for rate-making purposes. The Company is subject to the risks associated with the geographic concentration of its businesses and current lack of interconnections that could result in service interruptions at the electric utilities or higher default rates on loans held by ASB. The business of HECO and its electric utility subsidiaries is concentrated on the individual islands they serve in the State of Hawaii. Their operations are more vulnerable to service interruptions than are many U.S. mainland utilities because none of the systems of HECO and its subsidiaries are interconnected with the systems on the other islands they serve. Because of this lack of interconnections, it is necessary to maintain higher generation reserve margins than are typical for U.S. mainland utilities to help ensure reliable service. Service interruptions, including in particular extended interruptions that could result from a natural disaster or terrorist activity, could adversely impact the KWH sales of some or all of the electric utility subsidiaries. For example, in December 2008, an island-wide outage (likely the result of a severe air-to-ground lightning storm) occurred on the island of Oahu that resulted in a loss of electric service to HECO customers ranging from approximately 7 to 20 hours. Substantially all of ASB’s consumer loan customers are Hawaii residents. A significant portion of the commercial loan customers are located in Hawaii. Substantially all of the real estate underlying ASB’s residential and commercial real estate loans are located in Hawaii. These assets may be subject to a greater risk of default than other 31 Table of Contents comparable assets held by financial institutions with other geographic concentrations in the event of adverse economic, political or business developments or natural disasters affecting Hawaii and the ability of ASB’s customers to make payments of principal and interest on their loans. Increasing competition and technological advances could cause HEI’s businesses to lose customers or render their operations obsolete. The banking industry in Hawaii, and certain aspects of the electric utility industry, are competitive. The success of HEI’s subsidiaries in meeting competition will continue to have a direct impact on HEI’s consolidated financial performance. For example: • ASB, one of the largest financial institutions in the state, is in direct competition for deposits and loans not only with two larger institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources, but also with smaller Hawaii institutions and other U.S. institutions, including credit unions, mutual funds, mortgage brokers, finance companies and investment banking firms. Larger financial institutions may have greater access to capital at lower costs, which could impair ASB’s ability to compete effectively. Significant advances in technology could render the operations of ASB less competitive or obsolete. • HECO and its subsidiaries face competition from IPPs, including alternate energy providers, and customer self-generation, with or without cogeneration. The PUC issued a decision in its investigative proceeding on competitive bidding as a mechanism for acquiring or building new electric generating capacity. With the exception of certain identified projects, the utilities are now required to use competitive bidding to acquire a future generation resource unless the PUC finds competitive bidding to be unsuitable. The PUC also issued a decision in its DG investigative proceeding, in which it set policies for DG interconnection agreements and standby rates, and established conditions under which electric utilities can provide DG services on customer-owned sites as a regulated service. The electric utilities cannot predict the ultimate effect of the PUC’s decisions in the competitive bidding and DG proceedings, the impact they will have on competition from IPPs and customer self-generation, or the rate at which technological developments facilitating non-utility generation of electricity will occur. • New technological developments, such as the commercial development of fuel cells, may render the operations of HEI’s electric utility subsidiaries less competitive or outdated. HEI’s businesses could suffer losses that are uninsured due to a lack of insurance coverage or limitations on the insurance coverage the Company does have. In the ordinary course of business, HEI and its subsidiaries purchase insurance coverages (e.g., property and liability coverages) to protect against loss of, or damage to, their properties and against claims made by third parties and employees for property damage or personal injuries. However, the protection provided by such insurance is limited in significant respects and, in some instances, there is no coverage. Certain of the insurance has substantial deductibles or has limits on the maximum amounts that may be recovered. For example, the electric utilities’ overhead and underground transmission and distribution systems (with the exception of substation buildings and contents) have a replacement value roughly estimated at $5 billion and are not insured against loss or damage because the amount of transmission and distribution system insurance available is limited and the premiums are cost prohibitive. Similarly, the electric utilities have no business interruption insurance as the premiums for such insurance would be cost prohibitive, particularly since the utilities are not interconnected to other systems. If a hurricane or other uninsured catastrophic natural disaster were to occur, and if the PUC were not to allow the affected electric utilities to recover from ratepayers restoration costs and revenues lost from business interruption, the lost revenues and repair expenses could result in a significant decrease in HEI’s consolidated net income or in significant net losses for the affected periods. ASB generally does not obtain credit enhancements, such as mortgagor bankruptcy insurance, but does require standard hazard and hurricane insurance and may require flood insurance for certain properties. ASB is subject to the risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies, special hazard losses not covered by the required insurance and the insurance company’s inability to pay claims on existing policies. Increased federal and state environmental regulation will require an increasing commitment of resources and funds and could result in construction delays or penalties and fines for non-compliance. HEI and its subsidiaries are subject to federal and state environmental laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety, which regulate the operation of existing facilities, the 32 Table of Contents construction and operation of new facilities and the proper cleanup and disposal of hazardous waste and toxic substances. Compliance with these legal requirements requires HEI’s utility subsidiaries to commit significant resources and funds toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment and payment of emission fees. These laws and regulations, among other things, require that certain environmental permits be obtained in order to construct or operate certain facilities, and obtaining such permits can entail significant expense and cause substantial construction delays. Also, these laws and regulations may be amended from time to time, including amendments that increase the burden and expense of compliance. For example, emission and/or discharge limits may be tightened, more extensive permitting requirements may be imposed and additional substances may become regulated. In addition, significant regulatory uncertainty exists regarding the impact of federal or state greenhouse gas emission limits and reductions. If HEI or its subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their control, that failure may result in civil or criminal penalties and fines. At the present time, HECO is a named party in an ongoing environmental matter that includes an investigation to determine the nature and extent of actual or potential release of hazardous substances, oil, pollutants or contaminants at or near Honolulu Harbor and their remediation where applicable. Management cannot predict the ultimate cost or outcome of that investigation and the accompanying remedial efforts. Adverse tax rulings or developments could result in significant increases in tax payments and/or expense. Governmental taxing authorities could challenge a tax return position taken by HEI or its subsidiaries and, if the taxing authorities prevail, HEI’s consolidated tax payments and/or expense, including applicable penalties and interest, could increase significantly. Further, the ability or inability of HEI and its subsidiaries to generate capital gains and utilize capital loss carryforwards on future tax returns could impact future earnings. The Company could be subject to the risk of uninsured losses in excess of its accruals for litigation matters. HEI and its subsidiaries are involved in routine litigation in the ordinary course of their businesses, most of which is covered by insurance (subject to policy limits and deductibles). However, other litigation may arise that is not routine or involves claims that may not be covered by insurance. Because of the uncertainties associated with litigation, there is a risk that litigation against HEI or its subsidiaries, even if vigorously defended, could result in costs of defense and judgment or settlement amounts not covered by insurance and in excess of reserves established in HEI’s consolidated financial statements. Changes in accounting principles and estimates could affect the reported amounts of the Company’s assets and liabilities or revenues and expenses. HEI’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Changes in these principles, or changes in the Company’s application of existing accounting principles, could materially affect HEI’s or the electric utilities’ consolidated financial position and/or results of operations. Further, in preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change include the amounts reported for investment and mortgage-related securities; property, plant and equipment; pension and other postretirement benefit obligations; contingencies and litigation; income taxes; regulatory assets and liabilities; electric utility revenues; variable interest entities; and allowance for loan losses. HECO and its subsidiaries’ financial statements reflect assets and costs based on cost-based rate-making regulations. Continued accounting in this manner requires that certain criteria relating to the recoverability of such costs through rates be met. If events or circumstances should change so that the criteria are no longer satisfied, the electric utilities’ regulatory assets (amounting to $427 million as of December 31, 2009) may need to be charged to expense, which could result in significant reductions in the electric utilities’ net income, and the electric utilities’ regulatory liabilities (amounting to $288 million as of December 31, 2009) may need to be refunded to ratepayers. Changes in accounting principles can also impact HEI’s consolidated financial statements. For example, if management determines that a PPA requires the consolidation of the IPP in HECO’s consolidated financial statements, the consolidation could have a material effect on HECO’s consolidated financial statements, including the recognition of a significant amount of assets and liabilities and, if such a consolidated IPP were operating at a loss and had insufficient equity, the potential recognition of such losses. Also, if management determines that a PPA requires the classification of the agreement as a capital lease, a material effect on HEI’s consolidated balance sheet may result, including the recognition of significant capital assets and lease obligations. 33 Table of Contents Electric Utility Risks. Actions of the PUC are outside the control of the electric utility subsidiaries and could result in inadequate or untimely rate relief, in rate reductions or refunds or in unanticipated delays, expenses or writedowns in connection with the construction of new projects. The rates the electric utilities are allowed to charge for their services and the timeliness of permitted rate increases are among the most important items influencing the electric utilities’ financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The PUC has broad discretion over the rates that the electric utilities charge their customers. The electric utilities currently have rate cases pending before the PUC. Further, the trend of increased operation and maintenance expenses, which management expects will continue, increased plant-in-service and other factors are likely to result in the electric utilities continuing to seek rate relief frequently. Any adverse decision by the PUC concerning the level or method of determining electric utility rates, the items and amounts that may be included in rate base, the returns on equity or rate base found to be reasonable, the potential consequences of exceeding or not meeting such returns, or any prolonged delay in rendering a decision in a rate or other proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on HECO’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The electric utilities could be required to refund to their customers, with interest, revenues that have been or may be received under interim rate orders in their rate case proceedings (HECO’s 2007 and 2009 test year rate cases, HELCO’s 2006 and 2010 test year rate cases and MECO’s 2007 and 2010 test year rate cases), IRP cost recovery dockets and other proceedings, if and to the extent they exceed the amounts allowed in final orders. As of December 31, 2009, the electric utilities had recognized an aggregate of $281 million of such revenues with respect to interim orders. Many public utility projects require PUC approval and various permits (e.g., environmental and land use permits) from other governmental agencies. Difficulties in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, the necessary approvals or permits, or any adverse decision or policy made or adopted, or any prolonged delay in rendering a decision, by an agency with respect to such approvals and permits, can result in significantly increased project costs or even cancellation of projects. For example, two major capital improvement projects — HECO’s East Oahu Transmission Project and the expansion of HELCO’s Keahole generating plant — encountered substantial opposition and consequent delay and increased cost. In the event a project does not proceed, or if the PUC disallows cost recovery for all or part of the project, project costs may need to be written off in amounts that could result in significant reductions in HECO’s consolidated net income. Energy cost adjustment clauses. The rate schedules of each of HEI’s electric utilities include ECACs under which electric rates charged to customers are automatically adjusted for changes in the weighted-average price paid for fuel oil and certain components of purchased power, and the relative amounts of company-generated power and purchased power. In 2004 PUC decisions approving the electric utilities’ fuel supply contracts, the PUC affirmed the electric utilities’ right to include in their respective ECACs the stated costs incurred pursuant to their respective new fuel supply contracts, to the extent that these costs are not included in their respective base rates, and restated its intention to examine the need for continued use of ECACs in rate cases. On June 2, 2006, the Governor of Hawaii signed into law Act 162, which provides that any automatic fuel rate adjustment clause requested by a public utility in an application filed with the PUC shall be designed, as determined in the PUC’s discretion, to (1) fairly share the risk of fuel cost changes between the public utility and its customers, (2) provide the public utility with sufficient incentive to reasonably manage or lower its fuel costs and encourage greater use of renewable energy, (3) allow the public utility to mitigate the risk of sudden or frequent fuel cost changes that cannot otherwise reasonably be mitigated through other commercially available means, such as through fuel hedging contracts, (4) preserve, to the extent reasonably possible, the public utility’s financial integrity, and (5) minimize, to the extent reasonably possible, the public utility’s need to apply for frequent applications for general rate increases to account for the changes to its fuel costs. The Energy Agreement confirms the intent of the parties that the existing ECACs will continue, but subject to periodic review by the PUC. The Energy Agreement also provides that as part of the review, the PUC may examine whether there are renewable energy projects from which the utilities should have, but did not, purchase energy or whether alternative fuel purchase strategies were appropriately used or not used. Management cannot predict the 34 Table of Contents ultimate effect of the analysis required under Hawaii Act 162 on the continuation of the utilities’ existing ECACs. Any change in the ECAC could have a material adverse affect on the electric utilities. Electric utility operations are significantly influenced by weather conditions. The electric utilities’ results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions, particularly temperature and humidity, directly influence the demand for electricity. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and lightning storms, which may become more severe or frequent as a result of global warming, can cause outages and property damage and require the utilities to incur significant additional expenses that may not be recoverable. Electric utility operations depend heavily on third-party suppliers of fuel and purchased power. The electric utilities rely on fuel oil suppliers and shippers and independent power producers to deliver fuel oil and power, respectively, in accordance with contractual agreements. Approximately 77% of the net energy generated or purchased by the electric utilities in 2009 was generated from the burning of fossil fuel oil, and purchases of power by the electric utilities provided about 40% of their total net energy generated and purchased for the same period. Failure or delay by oil suppliers and shippers to provide fuel pursuant to existing contracts, or failure by a major IPP to deliver the firm capacity anticipated in its PPA, could disrupt the ability of the electric utilities to deliver electricity and require the electric utilities to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of their customers that may not be recoverable. In addition, as these contractual agreements end, the electric utilities may not be able to purchase fuel and power on terms equivalent to the current contractual agreements. Further, as the use of biofuels in generating units increases, the same risks will exist with suppliers of biofuels. Electric utility generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated and/or increased operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Operation of electric generating facilities involves certain risks which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Included among these risks are facility shutdowns or power interruptions due to insufficient generation or a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes or interruptions in fuel supply, inability to negotiate satisfactory collective bargaining agreements when existing agreements expire or other labor disputes, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, disruptions in delivery of electricity, operator error and catastrophic events such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, fires, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences affecting the electric utilities’ generating facilities or transmission and distribution systems. Global warming may result in rising sea levels, which could pose a threat to facilities of the utilities, particularly those located in coastal or other low-lying areas. The utilities have taken a number of steps to mitigate the risk of outages, including securing additional purchased power, adding distributed generation at some substations and encouraging energy conservation. The costs of supplying energy to meet high demand and maintenance costs required to sustain high availability of aging generation units have been increasing and the trend of cost increases is not likely to ease, putting pressure on earnings to the extent timely rate relief is not achieved. The electric utilities may be adversely affected by new legislation. Congress and the Hawaii Legislature periodically consider legislation that could have positive or negative effects on the electric utilities and their customers. In addition to the ECAC provisions of Act 162 discussed above, the Hawaii Legislature adopted a number of measures that may affect the electric utilities, as described below. Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS) law. In 2009, Hawaii’s RPS law was amended to require electric utilities to meet an RPS of 10%, 15%, 25% and 40% by December 31, 2010, 2015, 2020 and 2030, respectively. The amended RPS law is consistent with the commitment in the Energy Agreement that the utilities signed as part of the Hawaii Clean Energy Initiative (HCEI). The utilities are committed to achieving these goals; however, due to risks such as potential delays in IPPs being able to deliver contracted renewable energy (see risks under “Forward-looking Statements” on pages v and vi), it is possible the electric utilities may not attain the required renewable percentages in the future, and management cannot predict the future consequences of failure to do so (including potential penalties to be assessed by the PUC). On December 19, 2008, the PUC approved a penalty of $20 for every MWh that an electric utility is deficient under Hawaii’s RPS law. The PUC noted, however, that this penalty may be reduced, in the PUC’s discretion, due to events or circumstances that are outside an electric utility’s reasonable control, to the extent the event or circumstance could not be reasonably foreseen and ameliorated, as described in 35 Table of Contents the RPS law and in an RPS framework. In addition, the PUC ordered that the utilities will be prohibited from recovering any RPS penalty costs through rates. Non-fossil fuel purchased power contracts. In 2006, a Hawaii law was enacted that required that the PUC establish a methodology that removes or significantly reduces any linkage between the price paid for non-fossil-fuel generated electricity under future power purchase contracts and the price of fossil fuel, in order to allow utility customers to receive the potential cost savings from non-fossil fuel generation (in connection with the PUC’s determination of just and reasonable rates in purchased power contracts). Net energy metering. Hawaii has a net energy metering law, which requires that electric utilities offer net energy metering to eligible customer generators (i.e., a customer generator may be a net user or supplier of energy and will make payment to or receive credit from the electric utility accordingly). In the Energy Agreement, the parties agreed to seek to remove system-wide caps on net energy metering. Instead, they planned to seek to limit DG interconnections on a per-circuit basis and to replace net energy metering with an appropriate feed-in tariff and new net metered installations that incorporate time-of-use metering equipment for future full scale implementation of time-of-use metering and sale of excess energy. Renewable energy. In 2007, a measure was passed by the Hawaii legislature stating that the PUC may consider the need for increased renewable energy in rendering decisions on utility matters. Due to this measure, it is possible that, if energy from a renewable source were more expensive than energy from fossil fuel, the PUC may still approve the purchase of energy from the renewable source. In 2008, a law was enacted to promote and encourage the use of solar thermal energy. This measure will require the installation of solar thermal water heaters in residences constructed after January 1, 2010, but allow for limited variances in cases where installation of solar water heating is deemed inappropriate. Also in 2008, a law was enacted that is intended to facilitate the permitting of larger (200 MW or greater) renewable energy projects. The Energy Agreement includes several undertakings by the utilities to integrate solar energy into their electric grid. In 2009, a Hawaii law (Act 185) was enacted authorizing preferential rates to agricultural energy producers selling electricity to utilities. This will help support the long-term development of locally grown biofuel crops, cultivating potential local renewable fuel sources for the utilities. In addition, pursuant to Act 50 (also adopted in 2009), avoided cost is no longer a consideration in determining a just and reasonable rate for non-fossil fuel generated electricity. This will allow the utilities to negotiate purchased power prices for renewable energy that have the potential to be more stable and less costly than current pricing tied to avoided cost. Global climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction. National and international concern about climate change and the contribution of GHG emissions to global warming have led to action by the state of Hawaii and federal legislative and regulatory proposals to reduce GHG emissions. In July 2007, Act 234, which requires a statewide reduction of GHG emissions by January 1, 2020 to levels at or below the statewide GHG emission levels in 1990, became law in Hawaii. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (ACES). Among other things, ACES establishes a declining cap on GHG emissions requiring a 3% emissions reduction from 2005 levels by 2012 that increases to 17% by 2020, 42% by 2030, and 83% by 2050. The ACES also establishes a trading and offset scheme for GHG allowances. The trading program combined with the declining cap is known as a “cap and trade” approach to emissions reduction. In September 2009, the U.S. Senate began consideration of the Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act (S. 1733). S. 1733 also includes cap and trade provisions to reduce GHG emissions. Since then, several other approaches to GHG emission reduction have been either introduced or discussed in the U.S. Senate; however, no legislation has yet been enacted. In response to the 2007 U.S. Supreme Court decision in Massachusetts v. EPA, which ruled that the EPA has the authority to regulate GHG emissions from motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act (CAA), the EPA has accelerated rulemaking addressing GHG emissions from both mobile and stationary sources. On September 22, 2009, the EPA issued the Final Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule. The rule requires that sources above certain threshold levels monitor and report GHG emissions beginning in 2010. On October 27, 2009, the Federal Register published the EPA’s proposed “Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Tailoring Rule” that would create a new emissions threshold for GHG emissions from new and existing facilities. 36 Table of Contents Biofuels. In 2007, a Hawaii law was enacted with the stated purpose of encouraging further production and use of biofuels in Hawaii. It established that biofuel processing facilities in Hawaii are a permitted use in designated agricultural districts and established a program with the Hawaii Department of Agriculture to encourage the production in Hawaii of energy feedstock (i.e., raw materials for biofuels). In 2008, a law was enacted that encourages the development of biofuels by authorizing the Hawaii Board of Land and Natural Resources to lease public lands to growers or producers of plant and animal material used for the production of biofuels. The utilities have agreed in the Energy Agreement to test the use of biofuels in their generating units and, if economically feasible, to convert them to the use of biofuels. At this time, it is not possible to predict with certainty the impact of the foregoing legislation or legislation that now is, or may in the future be, proposed. The electric utilities may be subject to increased operational challenges and their results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely impacted in meeting the commitments and objectives of the HCEI Energy Agreement. On October 20, 2008, the Governor of the State of Hawaii, the State of Hawaii Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism, the Division of Consumer Advocacy of the State of Hawaii Department of Commerce and Consumer Affairs and the electric utilities (collectively, the parties), signed an Energy Agreement setting forth the goals and objectives of an HCEI and the related commitments of the parties. The Energy Agreement requires the parties to pursue a wide range of actions with the purpose of decreasing the State of Hawaii’s dependence on imported fossil fuels through substantial increases in the use of renewable energy and implementation of new programs intended to secure greater energy efficiency and conservation. For a detailed discussion of certain of the electric utilities’ commitments contained in the Energy Agreement, see “Hawaii Clean Energy Initiative” in Note 3 of HEI’s “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” The far-reaching nature of the Energy Agreement, including the extent of renewable energy commitments and the implementation of a new regulatory model which would decouple revenues from sales, present new increased risks to the Company. Among such risks are: (1) the dependence on third party suppliers of renewable purchased energy, which if the utilities are unsuccessful in negotiating purchased power agreements with such IPPs or if a major IPP fails to deliver the anticipated capacity in its purchased power agreement, could impact the utilities’ achievement of its commitments under the Energy Agreement and/or the utilities’ ability to deliver reliable service; (2) delays in acquiring or unavailability of non-fossil fuel supplies for renewable generation; (3) the impact of intermittent power to the electrical grid and reliability of service if appropriate supporting infrastructure is not installed or does not operate effectively; (4) the likelihood that the utilities may need to make substantial investments in related infrastructure, which could result in increased borrowings and, therefore, materially impact the financial condition and liquidity of the utilities; and (5) the commitment to support a variety of initiatives, which, if approved by the PUC, may have a material impact on the results of operations and financial condition of the utilities depending on their design and implementation. Programs include, but are not limited to, decoupling revenues from sales; implementing feed-in tariffs to encourage development of renewable energy; removing the system-wide caps on net energy metering (but limiting distributed generation interconnections on a per-circuit basis to no more than 15% of peak circuit demand); and developing an Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard. Management cannot predict the ultimate impact or outcome of the implementation of these or other HCEI programs on the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of the electric utilities. Bank Risks. Fluctuations in interest rates could result in lower net interest income, impair ASB’s ability to originate new loans or impair the ability of ASB’s adjustable-rate borrowers to make increased payments. Interest rate risk is a significant risk of ASB’s operations. ASB’s net interest income consists primarily of interest income received on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans, mortgage-related securities and investments and interest expense consisting primarily of interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rate risk arises when earning assets mature or when their interest rates change in a time frame different from that of the costing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact ASB’s net interest margin. 37 Table of Contents Although ASB pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to mitigate its risk from changes in market interest rates, unfavorable movements in interest rates could result in lower net interest income. Residential 1-4 family fixed-rate mortgage loans comprised about 60% of ASB’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009 and do not re-price with movements in interest rates. ASB continues to face a challenging interest rate environment. The weak global, national and local economic environments have resulted in a persistent, low level of interest rates, weak loan demand, and excess liquidity in the financial system. In addition, expectations are increasing that interest rates will rise rapidly once there are strong signs that the economic recovery is taking hold. ASB’s decision to sell substantially all of its fixed rate mortgage production throughout 2009, weak loan demand and challenges in finding investments with adequate risk-adjusted returns resulted in declining loan balances and an increase in ASB’s liquidity position, which had a negative impact on ASB’s asset yields and net interest margin. The potential for compression of ASB’s margin when interest rates rise is an ongoing concern. Increases in market interest rates could have an adverse impact on ASB’s cost of funds. Higher market interest rates could lead to higher interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Significant increases in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect ASB’s ability to originate new loans and grow. An increase in market interest rates, especially a sudden increase, could also adversely affect the ability of ASB’s adjustable-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge-offs. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates or a mismatching of maturities of interest sensitive financial instruments could result in an acceleration in the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities and impact ASB’s ability to reinvest its liquidity in similar yielding assets. Historically low interest rates in 2008 and 2009 resulted in high refinancings, which reduced the level of future interest income. ASB’s operations are affected by many disparate factors, some of which are beyond its control, that could result in lower net interest income or decreased demand for its products and services. ASB’s results of operations depend primarily on the level of interest income generated by ASB’s earning assets in excess of the interest expense on its costing liabilities and the supply of and demand for its products and services (i.e., loans and deposits). ASB’s net income may also be adversely affected by various other factors, such as: • local and other economic and political conditions that could result in declines in employment and real estate values, which in turn could adversely affect the ability of borrowers to make loan payments and the ability of ASB to recover the full amounts owing to it under defaulted loans; • the ability of borrowers to obtain insurance and the ability of ASB to place insurance where borrowers fail to do so, particularly in the event of catastrophic damage to collateral securing loans made by ASB; • faster than expected loan prepayments that can cause an acceleration of the amortization of premiums on loans and investments and the impairment of mortgage servicing assets of ASB; • changes in ASB’s loan portfolio credit profiles and asset quality, which may increase or decrease the required level of allowance for loan losses; • technological disruptions affecting ASB’s operations or financial or operational difficulties experienced by any outside vendor on whom ASB relies to provide key components of its business operations, such as business processing, network access or internet connections; • the impact of potential legislative and regulatory changes increasing oversight of, and reporting by, banks in response to the recent financial crisis and federal bailout of financial institutions; • legislative changes regulating the assessment of overdraft and credit card fees, which will have a negative impact on noninterest income; • public opinion about ASB and financial institutions in general, which, if negative, could impact the public’s trust and confidence in ASB and adversely affect ASB’s ability to attract and retain customers and expose ASB to adverse legal and regulatory consequences; • increases in operating costs, inflation and other factors, that exceed increases in ASB’ s net interest, fee and other income; and • the ability of ASB to maintain or increase the level of deposits, ASB’s lowest costing funds. Banking and related regulations could result in significant restrictions being imposed on ASB’s business or in a requirement that HEI divest ASB. ASB is subject to examination and comprehensive regulation by the Department of Treasury, the OTS and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and is subject to reserve requirements established by 38 Table of Contents the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. As ASB’s primary regulator, the OTS regularly conducts examinations to assess the “safety and soundness” of ASB’s operations and activities and ASB’s compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations. Because ASB is an indirect subsidiary of HEI, federal regulatory authorities have the right to examine HEI and its activities. Under certain circumstances, including any determination that ASB’s relationship with HEI results in an unsafe and unsound banking practice, these regulatory authorities have the authority to restrict the ability of ASB to transfer assets and to make distributions to its stockholders (including payment of dividends to HEI), or they could seek to require HEI to sever its relationship with or divest its ownership of ASB. Payment by ASB of dividends to HEI may also be restricted by the OTS under its prompt corrective action regulations or its capital distribution regulations if ASB’s capital position deteriorates. In order to maintain its status as a QTL, ASB is required to maintain at least 65% of its assets in “qualified thrift investments.” Savings associations that fail to maintain QTL status are subject to various penalties, including limitations on their activities. In ASB’s case, the activities of HEI and HEI’s other subsidiaries would also be subject to restrictions, and a failure or inability to comply with those restrictions could effectively result in the required divestiture of ASB. There is also proposed federal legislation that could result in a required divestiture of ASB. In the event of a required divestiture, federal law substantially limits the types of entities that could potentially acquire ASB. A large percentage of ASB’s loans and securities are collateralized by real estate, and adverse changes in the real estate market may result in loan losses and adversely affect the Company’s profitability. As of December 31, 2009 approximately 83% of ASB’s loan portfolio was comprised of loans primarily collateralized by real estate, most of which was concentrated in the State of Hawaii. ASB’s financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, either nationally or in the state of Hawaii, including decreases in real estate values, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal and state government and other significant external events. A deterioration of the economic environment in Hawaii, including a material decline in the real estate market, further declines in home resales, or a material external shock, may significantly impair the value of ASB’s collateral and ASB’s ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. In addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, ASB’s profits may decrease if alternative investments earn less income than real estate loans. ASB’s strategy to expand its commercial and commercial real estate lending activities may result in higher service costs and greater credit risk than residential lending activities due to the unique characteristics of these markets. ASB has been aggressively pursuing a strategy that includes expanding its commercial and commercial real estate lines of business. These types of loans generally entail higher underwriting and other service costs and present greater credit risks than traditional residential mortgages. Generally, both commercial and commercial real estate loans have shorter terms to maturity and earn higher spreads than residential mortgage loans. Only the assets of the business typically secure commercial loans. In such cases, upon default, any collateral repossessed may not be sufficient to repay the outstanding loan balance. In addition, loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability and, thus, are more likely to be affected by current economic conditions and adverse business developments. Commercial real estate properties tend to be unique and are more difficult to value than residential real estate properties. Commercial real estate loans may not be fully amortizing, meaning that they may have a significant principal balance or “balloon” payment due at maturity. In addition, commercial real estate properties, particularly industrial and warehouse properties, are generally subject to relatively greater environmental risks than noncommercial properties and to the corresponding burdens and costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Also, there may be costs and delays involved in enforcing rights of a property owner against tenants in default under the terms of leases with respect to commercial properties. For example, a tenant may seek the protection of bankruptcy laws, which could result in termination of such tenant’s lease. In addition to the inherent risks of commercial and commercial real estate lending described above, the expansion of these new lines of business present execution risks, including the ability of ASB to attract personnel experienced in underwriting such loans and the ability of ASB to appropriately evaluate credit risk associated with such loans in determining the adequacy of its allowance for loan losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS HEI has not received, prior to July 5, 2009, written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the 1934 Exchange Act, which remain unresolved. 39 Table of Contents HECO has not received, prior to July 5, 2009, written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the 1934 Exchange Act, which remain unresolved. 