ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Holding Company and Company-Wide Risks For additional information for certain risk factors enumerated below, see “Forward-Looking Statements,” HEI’s MD&A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” and HEI’s Consolidated Financial Statements. HEI is a holding company that derives its income from its operating subsidiaries and depends on the ability of those subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to HEI and on its own ability to raise capital. HEI is a legal entity separate and distinct from its various subsidiaries. As a holding company with no significant operations of its own, HEI’s cash flows and consequent ability to service its obligations and pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon its receipt of dividends or other distributions from its operating subsidiaries and its ability to issue common stock or other equity securities and to incur additional debt. The ability of HEI’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to HEI is, in turn, subject to the risks associated with their operations and to contractual and regulatory restrictions, including: • the provisions of an HEI agreement with the PUC, which could limit the ability of HEI’s principal electric public utility subsidiary, HECO, to pay dividends to HEI in the event that the consolidated common stock equity of the electric public utility subsidiaries falls below 35% of total electric utility capitalization; • the provisions of an HEI agreement entered into with federal bank regulators in connection with its acquisition of its bank subsidiary, ASB, which require HEI to contribute additional capital to ASB (up to a maximum amount of additional capital of $28.3 million as of December 31, 2005) upon request of the regulators in order to maintain ASB’s regulatory capital at the level required by regulation; • the minimum capital and capital distribution regulations of the OTS that are applicable to ASB; 36 Table of Contents • the receipt of a letter from the OTS stating it has no objection to the payment of any dividend ASB proposes to declare and pay to HEI; and • the provisions of preferred stock resolutions and debt instruments of HEI and its subsidiaries. The Company is subject to risks associated with the Hawaii economy, volatile U.S. capital markets and changes in the interest rate environment that could result in higher retirement benefits expenses, declines in electric utility kilowatthour sales, declines in ASB’s interest rate margins, higher delinquencies and charge-offs in ASB’s loan portfolio and restrictions on the ability of HEI or its subsidiaries to borrow money. The two largest components of Hawaii’s economy are tourism and the federal government (including the military). Because the core businesses of HEI’s subsidiaries are providing local electric public utility services (through HECO and its subsidiaries) and banking services (through ASB and its subsidiaries) in Hawaii, the Company’s operating results are significantly influenced by Hawaii’s economy, which in turn is influenced by economic conditions in the mainland U.S. (particularly California) and Asia (particularly Japan) as a result of the impact of those conditions on tourism, by the impact of interest rates on the construction and real estate industries and by the impact of world conditions (e.g., war in Iraq) on federal government spending in Hawaii. A decline in the Hawaii economy, or the U.S. or Asian economies, could lead to a decline in kilowatthour sales and an increase in uncollected billings of HECO and its subsidiaries, higher delinquencies in ASB’s loan portfolio and other adverse effects on HEI’s businesses. If S&P or Moody’s were to downgrade HEI’s or HECO’s long-term debt ratings because of these adverse effects, or if future events were to adversely affect the availability of capital to the Company, HEI’s and HECO’s ability to borrow could be constrained and their future borrowing costs would likely increase with resulting reductions in HEI’s consolidated net income in future periods. Further, if HEI’s or HECO’s ratings were to be downgraded, HEI and HECO might not be able to sell commercial paper under current market conditions and might be required to draw on more expensive bank lines of credit or to defer capital or other expenditures. Changes in the U.S. capital markets can also have significant effects on the Company. For example, pension income or expense is affected by the market performance of the assets in the master pension trust maintained for pension plans, and by the discount rate used to determine the service and interest cost components of net periodic pension cost (returns). Because the earnings of ASB depend primarily on net interest income, interest rate risk is a significant risk of ASB’s operations. HEI and its electric utility subsidiaries are also exposed to interest rate risk primarily due to their periodic borrowing requirements, the discount rate used to determine retirement benefits expenses and obligations and the possible effect of interest rates on the electric utilities’ rates of return. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors, including general economic conditions and the policies of government and regulatory authorities. HEI cannot predict future changes in interest rates, nor be certain that interest rate risk management strategies it or its subsidiaries have implemented will be successful in managing interest rate risk. HEI and its subsidiaries may incur higher retirement benefits expenses and could be required to recognize a substantial additional minimum liability for pension benefits. Retirement benefits expenses and cash funding requirements could increase in future years depending on numerous factors, including the performance of the U.S. equity markets and trends in interest rates and health care costs. Retirement benefits expenses based on net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs have been an allowable expense for rate-making, and higher retirement benefits expenses, along with other factors, may affect the need to request a rate increase. Depending on investment results at each year end from the assets held in trust to satisfy retirement benefit plan obligations and the status of interest rates, the Company, like many sponsors of defined benefit pension plans, could be required in future years to recognize an additional minimum liability as prescribed by Statement of Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions.” The recognition of an additional minimum liability is required if the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets on the measurement date. The electric utilities’ recognition of the liability would also require the removal of the prepaid pension asset ($106 million as of December 31, 2005) from their consolidated balance sheet and from their rate bases and the sum of these amounts (net of taxes) would be recorded as a reduction to stockholders’ equity 37 Table of Contents through a non-cash charge to accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), and would not affect net income. By application filed on December 8, 2005, the electric utilities have requested the PUC to permit them to record, as a regulatory asset pursuant to SFAS No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,” and include in rate base, any amount that would otherwise be charged to AOCI as a result of recording a minimum pension liability, but no assurance can be given concerning how or when the PUC will act on this request. The amount of additional minimum liability and charge to AOCI, if any, that might be recorded could be material and will depend upon a number of factors, including the year-end discount rate assumption, asset returns experienced during the year, any changes to actuarial assumptions or plan provisions, and contributions made by the Company to the plans during the year. In addition, retirement benefits expenses and cash funding requirements could increase in future years depending on the performance of the U.S. equity markets and trends in interest rates. Retirement benefits expenses based on net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs have been an allowable expense for rate-making, and higher retirement benefits expenses, along with other factors, may affect the need to request an electric rate increase. If HEI and its subsidiaries are required to record substantially greater charges to AOCI in the future, the consolidated financial ratios of HEI and its subsidiaries may deteriorate, which could result in security ratings downgrades and difficulty (or greater expense) in obtaining future financing. In addition, there may be possible financial covenant violations (although there are no advances currently outstanding under any credit facility subject to financial covenants). For example, certain of HECO’s bank lines of credit require that it maintain a minimum ratio of consolidated common equity to consolidated capitalization of 35% (actual ratio was 56% as of December 31, 2005). In addition, the rates of return for the electric utilities could increase if they were required to record significant charges to AOCI and could impact the rates the electric utilities are allowed to charge, which may ultimately result in reduced revenues and lower earnings. The Company is subject to the risks associated with the geographic concentration of its businesses and lack of interconnections that could result in service interruptions at the electric utilities or higher default rates on loans held by ASB. The business of HECO and its electric utility subsidiaries is concentrated on the individual islands they serve in the State of Hawaii. The operations of HEI’s electric utility subsidiaries are more vulnerable to service interruptions than are many U.S. mainland utilities because none of the systems of HECO and its subsidiaries are interconnected with the systems on the other islands they serve. Because of this lack of interconnections, it is necessary to maintain higher generation reserve margins than are typical for U.S. mainland utilities to help ensure reliable service. The reserve margins on Oahu are currently below desirable levels and this condition will likely continue and be exacerbated by projected load growth until additional generation is brought on line, which is not expected until 2009. Service interruptions, including in particular extended interruptions that could result from a natural disaster or terrorist activity, could adversely impact the kilowatthour sales of some or all of the electric utility subsidiaries. Certain geographic regions of the U.S. may from time-to-time experience natural disasters or weaker regional economic conditions and housing markets and, consequently, may experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on loans. Substantially all of ASB’s consumer loan customers are Hawaii residents. A significant portion of the commercial loan customers are located in Hawaii. Substantially all of the real estate underlying ASB’s residential and commercial real estate loans are located in Hawaii. These assets may be subject to a greater risk of default than other comparable assets held by financial institutions with other geographic concentrations in the event of adverse economic, political or business developments or natural hazards that may affect Hawaii and the ability of ASB’s customers to make payments of principal and interest on their loans. Increasing competition and technological advances could cause HEI’s businesses to lose customers or render their operations obsolete. The banking industry in Hawaii, and certain aspects of the electric utility industry, are competitive. The success of HEI’s subsidiaries in meeting competition will continue to have a direct impact on HEI’s consolidated financial performance. For example: • ASB, which is the third largest financial institution in the state based on total assets, is in direct competition for deposits and loans not only with two larger institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources, but also with smaller Hawaii institutions and other U.S. institutions, including credit unions, mutual funds, mortgage brokers, finance companies and investment banking firms. Larger financial 38 Table of Contents institutions may have greater access to capital at lower costs, which could impair ASB’s ability to compete effectively. Significant advances in technology could render the operations of ASB less competitive or obsolete. • HECO and its subsidiaries face competition from independent power producers (IPPs), including alternate energy providers, and customer self-generation, with or without cogeneration. The PUC has an ongoing investigative proceeding on competitive bidding as a mechanism for acquiring or building new electric generating capacity. New technological developments, such as the commercial development of fuel cells or distributed generation, may render the operations of HEI’s electric utility subsidiaries less competitive or obsolete. The PUC recently issued a decision in its ongoing distributed generation (DG) investigative proceeding, in which it set policies for DG interconnection agreements and standby rates, and established conditions under which electric utilities can provide DG services on customer-owned sites as a regulated service. The utilities have requested that the PUC clarify how the conditions will be administered. The electric utilities cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the PUC’s competitive bidding and DG investigations, the impact they will have on competition from IPPs and customer self-generation, or the rate at which technological developments facilitating non-utility generation of electricity will occur. HEI’s businesses could suffer losses that are uninsured due to a lack of insurance coverage or limitations on the insurance coverage the Company does have. In the ordinary course of business, HEI and its subsidiaries purchase insurance coverages (e.g., property and liability coverages) to protect against loss of, or damage to, their properties and against claims made by third-parties and employees for property damage or personal injuries. However, the protection provided by such insurance is limited in significant respects and, in some instances, there is no coverage. Certain of the insurance has substantial deductibles or has limits on the maximum amounts that may be recovered. For example: The electric utilities’ overhead and underground transmission and distribution systems (with the exception of substation buildings and contents) have an estimated replacement cost of approximately $3 billion and are not insured against loss or damage because the amount of transmission and distribution system insurance available is limited and the premiums are cost prohibitive. Similarly, the electric utilities have no business interruption insurance as the premiums for such insurance would be cost prohibitive, particularly since the utilities are not interconnected to other systems. If a hurricane or other uninsured catastrophic natural disaster were to occur, and if the PUC were not to allow the affected electric utilities to recover from ratepayers restoration costs and revenues lost from business interruption, the lost revenues and repair expenses could result in a significant decrease in HEI’s consolidated net income or in significant net losses for the affected periods. ASB generally does not obtain credit enhancements such as mortgagor bankruptcy insurance but does require standard hazard and hurricane insurance and may require flood insurance for certain properties. ASB is subject to the risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies and special hazard losses not covered by the required insurance. Events like the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and financial failures of Enron and other companies have resulted generally in a decreased availability of insurance and higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. Increased federal and state environmental regulation will require an increasing commitment of resources and funds and could result in construction delays or penalties and fines for non-compliance. HEI and its subsidiaries are subject to federal and state environmental laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health and safety, which regulate the operation of existing facilities, the construction and operation of new facilities and the proper cleanup and disposal of hazardous waste and toxic substances. Compliance with these legal requirements requires HEI’s utility subsidiaries to commit significant resources and funds toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment and payment of emission fees. These laws and regulations, among other things, require that certain environmental permits be obtained in order to construct or operate certain facilities, and obtaining such permits can entail significant expense and cause substantial construction delays. Also, these laws and regulations may be amended from time-to-time, including amendments that increase the burden and expense of compliance. For example, emission and/or discharge limits may be tightened, more extensive permitting requirements may be imposed and additional substances may become regulated. 39 Table of Contents If HEI or its subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their control, that failure may result in civil or criminal penalties and fines. At the present time, HECO is a named party in an ongoing environmental investigation to determine the nature and extent of actual or potential release of hazardous substances, oil, pollutants or contaminants at or near Honolulu Harbor and management cannot predict the ultimate cost or outcome of that investigation. Adverse tax rulings or developments could result in significant increases in tax payments and/or expense. Governmental taxing authorities could challenge a tax return position taken by HEI or its subsidiaries and, if the taxing authorities prevail, HEI’s consolidated tax payments and/or expense, including applicable penalties and interest, could increase significantly. Further, the ability of HEI and its subsidiaries to generate capital gains and utilize capital loss carryforwards on future tax returns could impact future earnings. The Company could be subject to the risk of uninsured losses in excess of its accruals for litigation matters. HEI and its subsidiaries are involved in routine litigation in the ordinary course of their businesses, most of which is covered by insurance (subject to policy limits and deductibles). However, other litigation may arise that is not routine or involves claims that may not be covered by insurance. For example, HECO is a defendant in a suit, brought as a purported qui tam and class action, which claims that the State of Hawaii and HECO’s other customers have been overcharged for electricity as a result of allegedly excessive prices charged under a power purchase agreement between defendants HECO and AES Hawaii, Inc. The complaint asserted that HECO’s payments to AES Hawaii, Inc. for power have been “excessive” by over $1 billion since September 1992, and that approval of the power purchase agreement by the PUC in 1989 was wrongfully obtained through alleged misrepresentations or material omissions by the defendants of the estimated future costs under the power purchase agreement compared to the costs that would have been incurred if HECO-owned units had been constructed instead. Although a final judgment dismissing this complaint with prejudice was entered in HECO’s favor on September 17, 2003, one of the plaintiffs has appealed from this dismissal. On July 16, 2004, the Hawaii Supreme Court retained jurisdiction over the appeal (rather than assign the appeal to the Intermediate Court of Appeals) and the matter has been fully briefed and is awaiting decision. Because of the uncertainties associated with litigation, there is a risk that litigation against HEI and its subsidiaries, even if vigorously defended, could result in costs of defense and judgment or settlement amounts not covered by insurance and in excess of reserves established in HEI’s consolidated financial statements. Changes in accounting principles and estimates could affect the reported amounts of the Company’s assets and liabilities or revenues and expenses. HEI’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Changes in these principles or the Company’s application of existing accounting principles could materially affect HEI’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. Further, in preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change include the amounts reported for investment securities; property, plant and equipment; pension and other postretirement benefit obligations; contingencies and litigation; income taxes; regulatory assets and liabilities; electric utility revenues; variable interest entities; and allowance for loan losses. In accordance with SFAS No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation,” HECO and its subsidiaries’ financial statements reflect assets and costs based on cost-based rate-making regulations. Continued accounting in this manner requires that certain criteria relating to the recoverability of such costs through rates be met. If events or circumstances should change so that the criteria are no longer satisfied, the electric utilities’ regulatory assets (amounting to approximately $111 million as of December 31, 2005) may need to be charged to expense, which could result in significant reductions in the electric utilities’ net income, and the electric utilities’ regulatory liabilities (amounting to $219 million as of December 31, 2005) may need to be refunded to ratepayers. Changes in accounting principles can also impact HEI’s consolidated financial statements. For example, if a PPA falls within the scope of FASB FIN No. 46 (FIN 46R), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities” and results in the consolidation of the IPP in HECO’s consolidated financial statements, the consolidation could have a material 40 Table of Contents effect on HECO’s consolidated financial statements, including the recognition of a significant amount of assets and liabilities, and, if such a consolidated IPP were operating at a loss and had insufficient equity, the potential recognition of such losses. Also, if a PPA falls within the scope of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 01-8, “Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease” and results in the classification of the agreement as a capital lease, a material effect on HEI’s consolidated balance sheet may result, including the recognition of significant capital assets and lease obligations. Electric Utility Risks Actions of the PUC are outside the control of the electric utility subsidiaries and could result in inadequate or untimely rate relief, in rate reductions or refunds or in unanticipated delays, expenses or writedowns in connection with the construction of new projects. The rates the electric utilities are allowed to charge for their services and the timeliness of permitted rate increases, are among the most important items influencing the electric utilities’ financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The PUC has broad discretion over the rates that the electric utilities charge their customers. HECO currently has a rate case pending before the PUC in which it is seeking rate increases largely to recover the costs of capital improvements since its last rate case, the purchase of additional firm capacity and energy from Kalaeloa, the cost of measures taken to address peak load increases until generation capacity can be added on Oahu and increased operation and maintenance (O&M) expenses. In addition, HELCO has notified the PUC of its intention to file a request for a rate increase in spring 2006 intended to recover the cost of improvements to its transmission and distribution lines and the two generating units at its Keahole generating plant that became available for commercial operation since its last rate case in 2000. The increased level of the electric utilities’ O&M expenses (including increased retirement benefits expenses), which management expects will continue in 2006, increased capital expenditures, or other factors could result in the electric utilities seeking rate relief more often than in the past. Any adverse decision by the PUC concerning the level or method of determining electric utility rates, the returns on equity or rate base found to be reasonable, the potential consequences of exceeding or not meeting such returns, or any prolonged delay in rendering a decision in a rate or other proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on HECO’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The electric utilities could be required to refund to their customers, with interest, revenues received under interim rate orders if and to the extent they exceed the amounts allowed in final rate orders. At the end of September 2005, HECO received and implemented an interim general rate increase of $53.3 million in annual base revenues granted by the PUC in HECO’s current rate case. As of December 31, 2005, HECO had recognized an aggregate of $32 million of revenues with respect to this interim general rate increase and other interim orders regarding certain integrated resource planning costs. The rate schedules of each of HEI’s electric utilities include energy cost adjustment clauses under which electric rates charged to customers are automatically adjusted for changes in the weighted-average price paid for fuel oil and certain components of purchased power, and the relative amounts of company-generated power and purchased power. In 2004 PUC decisions approving the electric utilities’ fuel supply contracts, the PUC affirmed the electric utilities’ right to include in their respective energy cost adjustment clauses the stated costs incurred pursuant to their respective new fuel supply contracts, to the extent that these costs are not included in their respective base rates, and restated its intention to examine the need for continued use of energy cost adjustment clauses in rate cases. While there was no opposition to the continuation of the clause by the parties in the pending HECO rate case, there can be no assurance concerning actions the PUC may take in its final order in the pending HECO rate case or otherwise in the future with respect to these clauses. Many public utility projects require PUC approval and various permits (e.g., environmental and land use permits) from other governmental agencies. Difficulties in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, the necessary approvals or permits, or any adverse decision or policy made or adopted, or any prolonged delay in rendering a decision, by an agency with respect to such approvals and permits, can result in significantly increased project costs or even cancellation of projects. For example, two major capital improvement projects — HECO’s East Oahu Transmission Project and the expansion of HELCO’s Keahole generating plant — have encountered substantial opposition and consequent delay and increased cost. In the event a project does not proceed, or if the PUC disallows cost recovery for all or part of the project, project costs may need to be written off in amounts that could result in significant reductions in HECO’s consolidated net income. 41 Table of Contents Electric utility operations are significantly influenced by weather conditions. The electric utilities’ results of operations can be affected by changes in the weather. Weather conditions, particularly temperature and humidity, directly influence the demand for electricity. In addition, severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and property damage and requiring the utilities to incur significant additional expenses that may not be recoverable. Electric utility operations depend heavily on third party suppliers of fuel oil and purchased power. The electric utilities rely on fuel oil suppliers and shippers and independent power producers to deliver fuel oil and power, respectively, in accordance with contractual agreements. Approximately 79.5% of the net energy generated or purchased by the electric utilities in 2005 was generated from the burning of oil, and purchases of power by the electric utilities provided about 39.1% of their total net energy generated and purchased for the same period. Failure or delay by oil suppliers and shippers to provide fuel pursuant to existing contracts, or failure by a major IPP to deliver the firm capacity anticipated in its power purchase agreement, could disrupt the ability of the electric utilities to deliver electricity and require the electric utilities to incur additional expenses to meet the needs of their customers that may not be recoverable. In addition, as these contractual agreements end, the electric utilities may not be able to purchase fuel and power on terms equivalent to the current contractual agreements. Electric utility generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated and/or increased operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Operation of electric generating facilities involves certain risks which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Included among these risks are facility shutdowns or power interruptions due to insufficient generation or a breakdown or failure of equipment or processes or interruptions in fuel supply, inability to negotiate satisfactory collective bargaining agreements when existing agreements expire or other labor disputes, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, disruptions in delivery of electricity, operator error and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences affecting the electric utilities’ generating facilities or transmission and distribution systems. For example, as a result of load growth on Oahu and other factors, there currently is an increased risk to generation reliability. Generation reserve margins are lower than considered desirable in light of circumstances. Existing units are running harder, resulting in more frequent and more extensive maintenance, at times requiring temporary shut downs of these units. HECO has taken a number of steps to mitigate the risk of outages, including securing additional purchased power, adding distributed generation at some of substations and encouraging energy conservation. The marginal costs of supplying growing demand, however, is increasing because of HECO’s decreasing reserve margin situation and the rate of this increase is not likely to lessen until after HECO adds its proposed new generating unit on Oahu in 2009. The electric utilities may be adversely affected by new legislation. Congress and the Hawaii Legislature periodically consider legislation that could have positive or negative effects on the electric utilities and their customers. For example, Congress adopted the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which will provide $14.5 billion in tax incentives over a 10-year period designed to boost conservation efforts, increase domestic energy production and expand the use of alternative energy sources, such as solar, wind, ethanol, biomass, hydropower and clean coal technology. The incentives include tax credits and shorter depreciable lives for many assets associated with energy production and transmission. The primary impact of these incentives on the electric utilities will be the reduction in the depreciable tax life, from 20 years to 15 years, of certain electric transmission equipment placed into service after April 11, 2005. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 also replaced the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 with the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. On February 8, 2006, HEI and HECO became holding companies under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. The Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 provides for FERC access to the books and records of utility holding companies and, absent exemptions or waivers, imposes certain record retention and accounting requirements on public utility holding companies. HEI and HECO have filed a notification claiming a waiver of such requirements as single-state public utility holding companies. There can be no assurance that the waiver will be obtained. A number of bills on energy were introduced in the 2006 Hawaii State legislative session. While the majority of measures contained in these bills do not negatively affect the electric utilities, the electric utilities are actively engaged in deliberations before the Legislature on matters that may affect them if adopted, such as bills that would 42 Table of Contents direct the PUC to review and consider alternatives to the current energy cost adjustment clause, require the outsourcing of demand-side management programs, require the use of long-term fixed-price power purchase contracts for renewable energy generators, or modify the renewable portfolio standards law. At this time, it is not possible to predict the outcome of those deliberations. The 2001 Hawaii Legislature passed a law establishing renewable portfolio standard (RPS) goals for the electric utilities, on a consolidated basis, of 7% by December 31, 2003, 8% by December 31, 2005 and 9% by December 31, 2010. The law was amended in 2004 to require electric utilities to meet a renewable portfolio standard of 8% by December 31, 2005, 10% by December 31, 2010, 15% by December 31, 2015 and 20% by December 31, 2020. It may be difficult for the electric utilities to attain the renewables percentages in the future (although they have in the past), and management cannot predict the future consequences of failure to do so. The renewable standards law also required the PUC to develop and implement a utility ratemaking structure, which may include performance-based ratemaking, to provide incentives that encourage Hawaii’s electric utilities to use cost-effective renewable energy resources found in Hawaii to meet the RPS goals, while allowing for deviation from the standards in the event that the standards cannot be met in a cost-effective manner or as a result of circumstances beyond the control of the utility which could not have been reasonably anticipated or ameliorated. In November 2004, the PUC initiated a process, consisting of three sets of workshops (two sets of which have been completed) that are intended to lead to the creation of a document forming the basis of a set of rules to be adopted in a rule-making process relating to electric utility rate design. The electric utilities cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this process. Bank Risks Fluctuations in interest rates could result in lower net interest income, impair ASB’s ability to originate new loans or impair the ability of ASB’s adjustable-rate borrowers to make increased payments. Interest rate risk is a significant risk of ASB’s operations. ASB’s net interest income consists primarily of interest income received on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans, mortgage-related securities and investments and interest expense consisting primarily of interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Interest rate risk arises when earning assets mature or when their interest rates change in a time frame different from that of the costing liabilities. Changes in market interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short-term and long-term market interest rates or between different interest rate indices, can impact ASB’s net interest margin. Although ASB pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in market interest rates, unfavorable movements in interest rates could result in lower net interest income. Increases in market interest rates could have an adverse impact on ASB’s cost of funds. Higher market interest rates could lead to higher interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Significant increases in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect ASB’s ability to originate new loans and grow. An increase in market interest rates, especially a sudden increase, could also adversely affect the ability of ASB’s adjustable-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and charge-offs. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates or a mismatching of maturities of interest sensitive financial instruments could result in an acceleration in the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities and impact ASB’s ability to reinvest its liquidity in similar yielding assets. ASB’s operations are affected by many disparate factors, some of which are beyond its control, that could result in lower net interest income or decreased demand for its products and services. ASB’s results of operations depend primarily on the level of net interest income generated by ASB’s earning assets and costing liabilities and the supply of and demand for its products and services (i.e., loans and deposits). ASB’s net income may also be adversely affected by various other factors, such as: • local and other economic and political conditions that could result in declines in employment and real estate values, which in turn could adversely affect the ability of borrowers to make loan payments and the ability of ASB to recover the full amounts owing to it under defaulted loans; • the ability of borrowers to obtain insurance and the ability of ASB to place insurance where borrowers fail to do so, particularly in the event of catastrophic damage to collateral securing loans made by ASB; 43 Table of Contents • faster than expected loan prepayments that can cause an acceleration of the amortization of premiums on loans and investments and the impairment of mortgage servicing rights of ASB; • changes in ASB’s loan portfolio credit profile and asset quality which may increase or decrease the required level of allowance for loan losses; • increases in operating costs, due to its strategic transformation to a full-service community bank, inflation and other factors, that exceed increases in ASB’ s net interest, fee and other income; • the ability of ASB to maintain or increase the level of deposits, ASB’s lowest cost funds; and • the ability of ASB to execute its strategy to transform itself to a full-service community bank. Banking and related regulations could result in significant restrictions being imposed on ASB’s business. ASB is subject to examination and comprehensive regulation by the Department of Treasury, the OTS and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and is subject to reserve requirements established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. As ASB’s primary regulator, the OTS regularly conducts examinations to assess the “safety and soundness” of ASB’s operations and activities and ASB’s compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations. Because ASB is an indirect subsidiary of HEI, federal regulatory authorities have the right to examine HEI and its activities. Under certain circumstances, including any determination that ASB’s relationship with HEI results in an unsafe and unsound banking practice, these regulatory authorities have the authority to restrict the ability of ASB to transfer assets and to make distributions to its stockholders (including payment of dividends to HEI), or they could seek to require HEI to sever its relationship with or divest its ownership of ASB. Payment by ASB of dividends to HEI may also be restricted by the OTS under its prompt corrective action regulations or its capital distribution regulations if ASB’s capital position deteriorates. In order to maintain its status as a QTL, ASB is required to maintain at least 65% of its assets in “qualified thrift investments.” Savings associations that fail to maintain QTL status are subject to various penalties, including limitations on their activities. In ASB’s case, the activities of HEI and HEI’s other subsidiaries would also be subject to restrictions, and a failure or inability to comply with those restrictions could effectively result in the required divestiture of ASB. In the event of a required divestiture, federal law substantially limits the entities that could acquire ASB. ASB’s strategy to expand its commercial and commercial real estate lending activities may result in higher service costs and greater credit risk than residential lending activities due to the unique characteristics of these markets. ASB has been aggressively pursuing a strategy that includes expanding its commercial and commercial real estate lines of business. These types of loans generally entail higher underwriting and other service costs and present greater credit risks than traditional residential mortgages. Generally, both commercial and commercial real estate loans have shorter terms to maturity and earn higher rates than residential mortgage loans. Only the assets of the business typically secure commercial loans. In such cases, upon default, any collateral repossessed may not be sufficient to repay the outstanding loan balance. In addition, loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability and, thus, are more likely to be affected by current economic conditions and adverse business developments. Commercial real estate properties tend to be unique and are more difficult to value than residential real estate properties. Commercial real estate loans may not be fully amortizing, meaning that they may have a significant principal balance or “balloon” payment due at maturity. In addition, commercial real estate properties, particularly industrial and warehouse properties, are generally subject to relatively greater environmental risks than noncommercial properties and to the corresponding burdens and costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Also, there may be costs and delays involved in enforcing rights of a property owner against tenants in default under the terms of leases with respect to commercial properties. For example, tenants may seek the protection of bankruptcy laws, which could result in termination of such tenant’s lease. In addition to the inherent risks of commercial and commercial real estate lending described above, the expansion of these new lines of business present execution risks including the ability of ASB to attract personnel experienced in underwriting such loans and the ability of ASB to appropriately evaluate credit risk associated with such loans in determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS HEI has not received, prior to July 4, 2005, written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which remain unresolved. HECO has not received, prior to July 4, 2005, written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which remain unresolved. 