ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Difficult economic conditions and market volatility have adversely impacted the banking industry and financial markets generally and may significantly affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. Dramatic declines in the housing market beginning in the latter half of 2007, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and underemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. The capital and credit markets, including the fixed income markets, have been experiencing volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ financial strength. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our 8 Table of Contents markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. Accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Inability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with the EESA and ARRA. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies, which may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. • Further increases in FDIC insurance premiums due to the market developments which have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The enactment of new legislation and increased regulatory oversight may significantly affect our financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. FirstMerit Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the FDIC. As a holding company, we also are subject to regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not to benefit our shareholders. Such regulations can at times impose significant limitations on our operations. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in Congress and before bank regulatory authorities. Substantial regulatory and legislation initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the United States, are possible in the years ahead. Changes in applicable laws or policies could materially affect our business, and the likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. Moreover, it is impossible to predict the ultimate form any proposed legislation might take or how it might affect us. In 2008 and continuing into 2009 and 2010, the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC and others have taken numerous actions to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial markets. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; and coordinated efforts to address liquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that new legislation will have on the economy or financial markets. The failure of these programs to stabilize the financial markets could weaken public confidence in financial institutions and have a substantial and material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain new customers. Further, additional legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future that reduce the amount that our customers are required to pay under existing loan contracts or limit our ability to foreclose on collateral. For example, legislation has been proposed to give judges the ability to adjust the principal and interest payments on residential 9 Table of Contents mortgages to allow homeowners to avoid foreclosure. There can be no assurance that future legislation will not significantly impact our ability to collect on our current loans or foreclose on collateral. Additional information regarding regulation and supervision is included in the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1. Business. Changes in economic and political conditions, particularly in Ohio, could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and capital, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings and our capital. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. The substantial majority of the loans made by our subsidiaries are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. Consequently, a significant continued decline in the economy in Ohio could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We continue to experience difficult credit conditions in the markets in which we operate. It remains uncertain when the negative credit trends in our markets will reverse. As a result, our future earnings, cash flows and capital continue to be susceptible to further declining credit conditions in the markets in which we operate. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse affect on our earnings. During 2008, there were higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC voted on December 16, 2008 to increase assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by 7 basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits), beginning with the first quarter of 2009. Additional changes, beginning April 1, 2009, were to require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) instituted two temporary programs effective through December 31, 2009 to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and noninterest bearing transactional accounts are fully insured (unlimited coverage). On May 20, 2009, President Obama signed into law the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009 (the “HFSTHA”) which, among other things, amends the EESA to extend the effectiveness of these temporary programs through December 31, 2013. On January 1, 2014, the standard insurance amount will return to $100,000 per depositor for all account categories except IRAs and certain other retirement accounts, which will remain at $250,000 per depositor. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposed a special assessment for the second quarter of 2009 of 5 basis points on each insured depositary institution’s assets minus its Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009 in the amount of $4.9 million. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessments for these periods were collected on December 30, 2009, along with the regular quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. For the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, the prepaid assessment rate was based on each institution’s total basis point assessment in effect on September 30, 2009, adjusted to assume a 5% annualized deposit growth rate; for the 2011 and 2012 periods the computation is adjusted by an additional 3 basis points increase in the assessment rate. The three-year prepayment for FirstMerit totaled $43.9 million, and will be expensed over three years. 10 Table of Contents In January 2010, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rule-making asking for comments on how the FDIC’s risk-based deposit insurance assessment system could be changed to include the risks of certain employee compensation as criteria in the assessment system. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. The strength and stability of other financial institutions may adversely affect our business. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect our ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial services to institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Recent defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institution or the financial services industry in general, have led to marketwide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may increase when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price for our Common Shares has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: • announcements of developments related to our business; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • general conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • our announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings depend substantially on our interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, securities and other earning assets and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease of our net interest income and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional information regarding 11 Table of Contents interest rate risk is included in the section captioned “Interest Rate Sensitivity” within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board impact us significantly. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold. Those policies determine to a significant extent our cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve Board policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The primary source of our income from which we pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from FirstMerit Bank, which is subject to regulatory restrictions on its payment of dividends. The availability of dividends from FirstMerit Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of FirstMerit Bank and other factors, that the OCC could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. In addition, the payment of dividends by other subsidiaries is also subject to the laws of the subsidiary’s state of incorporation. FirstMerit’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event that FirstMerit Bank was unable to pay dividends to us, we in turn would likely have to reduce or stop paying dividends on our Common Shares. Our failure to pay dividends on our Common Shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Shares. Additional information regarding dividend restrictions is included in the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision — Dividends and Transactions with Affiliates” in Item 1. Business. If our actual loan losses exceed our allowance for credit losses, our net income will decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we maintain an allowance for credit losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance and a reserve for unfunded loan commitments, which when combined, we refer to as the allowance for credit losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. We cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional information regarding the allowance for loan losses is included in the sections captioned “Allowance for Loan Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments” and “Allowance for Credit Losses” within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and the judgment of our loan officers and bank presidents. Our credit standards and on-going process of credit assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and leases, extending loan commitments and letters of credit and, to a lesser degree, purchasing non-governmental securities. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of 12 Table of Contents consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques to ensure that loans and leases adhere to corporate policy and problem loans and leases are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide us with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with generally accepted accounting principles and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or that are materially misleading. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to a number of derivative transactions. Many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position difficult. We carry borrowings which contain embedded derivatives. These borrowing arrangements require that we deliver underlying securities to the counterparty as collateral. If market interest rates were to decline, we may be required to deliver more securities to the counterparty. We are dependent on the creditworthiness of the counterparties and are therefore susceptible to credit and operational risk in these situations. Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and, in the event of a default, may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. Any regulatory effort to create an exchange or trading platform for credit derivatives and other over-the-counter derivative contracts, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. In the normal course of business, FirstMerit and its subsidiaries are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments we have made and the businesses in which we have engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of our business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, we could be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at our cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. We may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Our business strategy includes significant growth plans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a profitable growth strategy both within our existing markets and in new markets. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if we grow more slowly than anticipated, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors, including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully managed. We face risks with respect to future expansion. We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of expenses and risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger targets; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and 14 Table of Contents economic dilution to our current shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial institutions. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Our financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area and on our ability to expand our scope of available financial services as needed to meet the needs and demands of our customers. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. Loss of key employees may disrupt relationships with certain customers. Our business is primarily relationship-driven in that many of our key employees have extensive customer relationships. Loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor. While we believe our relationship with our key producers is good, we cannot guarantee that all of our key personnel will remain with our organization. Loss of such key personnel, should they enter into an employment relationship with one of our competitors, could result in the loss of some of our customers. Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. We may be exposed to liability under non-solicitation agreements to which one or more of our employees may be a party to with certain of our competitors. From time to time, we may hire employees who may be parties to non-solicitation or non-competition agreements with one or more of our competitors. Although we expect that all such employees will comply with the terms of their non-solicitation agreements, it is possible that if customers of our competitors choose to move their business to us, or employees of our competitor seek employment with us, even without any action on the part of any employee bound by any such agreement, that one or more of our competitors may choose to bring a claim against us and our employee. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our business we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of FirstMerit and other third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and 15 Table of Contents systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by FirstMerit or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As we experience loan losses, additional capital may need to be infused. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on our financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our organizational documents, state laws and regulated industry may discourage a third party from acquiring FirstMerit by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated code of regulations, certain laws of the State of Ohio, and certain aspects of the BHCA and other governing statutes and regulations, may have the effect of discouraging a tender offer or other takeover attempt not previously approved by our Board of Directors. 