ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business could be impacted by any of the risks noted below; although, such risks are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial could also have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Economic and Market Conditions Difficult market conditions and economic trends may adversely affect our industry and our business. Beginning in the latter half of 2007 through mid-2009, the United States economy was in recession, with business activity across a wide range of industries and regions greatly reduced. Although economic conditions show improvement, certain sectors of the United States economy, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment rates, specifically in Ohio, Illinois and Pennsylvania, remain high. Local governments and many businesses still face serious difficulties due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions over the past three years have also led to the failure and merger of a number of financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization levels and of the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, which has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions and pervasive regulatory modifications. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings and our capital. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may result in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers, including those involving commercial real estate, to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. As a result of the challenges presented by current economic conditions, we continue to face the following risks: • increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal standards and operational requirements, which will likely increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities; • further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, which may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions; and • increased competition among financial services companies due to the consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies, which may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. Overall, while economic and market conditions have improved in the United States and in our primary geographic markets, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. 14 Table of Contents Changes in the general economic conditions and real estate valuations in our primary market areas could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A majority of the lending and deposit gathering activities made by our subsidiaries are to individuals and businesses in Ohio, Western Pennsylvania and Chicago, Illinois and our success depends in part on the general economic conditions of these areas. Real estate values in Ohio, Illinois and Pennsylvania have been negatively impacted during the recent economic disruption and recessionary environment. Additional adverse changes in the regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect payments on loans, increase delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosures, increase claims and lawsuits, increase devaluations recognized within our real estate portfolio, decrease the demand for our products and services and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate values, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits and wholesale borrowings). The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee (the “FOMC”) of the Federal Reserve and market interest rates. The cost of our deposits and short-term wholesale borrowings is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven by the FOMC. However, the yields generated by our loans and securities are typically driven by intermediate-term (i.e., five-year) interest rates, which are set by the market and generally vary from day to day. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates, and the pace at which such movements occur. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, the result could be a reduction in net interest income and with it, a reduction in our earnings. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly impacted were the interest rates on our interest-earning assets to decline more quickly than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, such changes in interest rates could affect our ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits, the fair values of our securities and other financial assets, the fair values of our liabilities and the average lives of our loan and securities portfolios. Changes in interest rates could also have an effect on the level of loan refinancing activity which, in turn, would impact the amount of prepayment penalty income we receive on our multi-family and commercial real estate (“CRE”) loans. As prepayment penalties are recorded as interest income, the extent to which they increase or decrease during any given period could have a significant impact on the level of net interest income and net income we generate during that time. In addition, changes in interest rates could have an effect on the slope of the yield curve. A flat to inverted yield curve could cause our net interest income and net interest margin to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flows, and the value of our assets. The strength and stability of other financial institutions may adversely affect our business. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect our ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial services to institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of 15 Table of Contents default of its counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may increase when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Problems encountered by financial institutions larger or similar to us could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we and our subsidiaries interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to credit risk. Our business strategy emphasizes the origination of multi-family loans and, to a lesser extent, CRE loans, which are generally larger, and have higher risk-adjusted returns and shorter maturities than one- to four-family mortgage loans. Our credit risk would ordinarily be expected to increase with the growth of these loan portfolios. Multi-family and CRE properties are generally believed to involve a greater degree of credit risk than one- to four-family mortgage loans. In addition, payments on multi-family and CRE loans generally depend on the income produced by the underlying properties which, in turn, depends on their successful operation and management. Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans may be impacted by adverse conditions in the local real estate market and the local economy. While we seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which generally require that such loans be qualified on the basis of the collateral property’s cash flows, appraised value, and debt service coverage ratio, among other factors; there can be no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses or delinquencies. We cannot guarantee that our record of asset quality will be maintained in future periods. Although we were not, and are not, involved in subprime or Alt-A lending, the lingering ramifications of the subprime lending crisis and the resulting turmoil in the financial and capital markets have been far-reaching, with real estate values declining and unemployment and bankruptcies rising throughout the nation, including the regions we serve. The ability of our borrowers to repay their loans could be adversely impacted by the significant change in market conditions, which not only could result in our experiencing an increase in charge-offs, but also could necessitate our increasing our provision for loan losses. Either of these events would have an adverse impact on our results of operations were they to occur. Our business depends significantly on general economic conditions in Ohio, Western Pennsylvania, and Chicago, Illinois. Accordingly, the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and the value of the collateral securing such loans, may be significantly affected by economic conditions in the regions we serve or by changes in the local real estate markets. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, acts of terrorism, or other factors beyond our control could therefore have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because multi-family and CRE loans represent the majority of our loans outstanding, a decline in tenant occupancy or in rents due to such factors or for other reasons could adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans on a timely basis, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We are subject to certain risks in connection with the level of our allowance for loan losses. A variety of factors could cause our borrowers to default on their loan payments and the collateral securing such loans to be insufficient to repay any remaining indebtedness. In such an event, we could experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents In the process of originating a loan, we make various assumptions and judgments about the ability of the borrower to repay it, based on, among other factors: (i) the cash flows produced by the building, property or business; (ii) the value of the real estate or other assets serving as collateral; and (iii) the creditworthiness of the borrower. We also establish an allowance for loan losses through an assessment of probable losses in each of our loan portfolios. Several factors are considered in this process, including: (i) the level of defaulted loans at the close of each quarter; (ii) recent trends in loan performance; (iii) historical levels of loan losses; (iv) the factors underlying such loan losses and loan defaults; (v) projected default rates and loss severities; (vi) internal risk ratings; (vii) loan size; (viii) economic, industry, and environmental factors; and (ix) impairment losses on individual loans. If our assumptions and judgments regarding such matters prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses might not be sufficient, and additional loan loss provisions might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such loan loss provisions, the adverse impact on our earnings could be material. In addition, as we continue to grow our loan portfolio, it may be necessary to increase the allowance for loan losses by making additional provisions, which would adversely impact our operating results. Furthermore, bank regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures and our loan loss allowance. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional information regarding our allowance for loan losses is included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the sections captioned “Allowance for Loan Losses and Unfunded Lending Commitments” and “Allowance for Credit Losses.” Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The FDIC maintains the DIF to resolve the cost of bank failures. The DIF is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions, including FirstMerit Bank. In November 2010, the FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to substantially modify the manner by which fee assessments are determined, including changing the deposit insurance assessment base from total domestic deposits to average total assets minus average tangible equity, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Final rules regarding proposed changes to the manner and method of DIF fee assessments are expected to be effective April 1, 2011. We cannot provide any assurance as to the effect of any proposed change in DIF assessment rate, should such a change occur, as such changes are dependent upon a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Increases in DIF assessment rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. Additional information regarding the FDIC’s proposed changes to DIF assessment rates is provided in Item 1. Business, in the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision — Deposit Insurance.” Impending changes to rules relating to debit card interchange fees may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pursuant to Section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the “Durbin Interchange Amendment”), the Federal Reserve Board has been granted the authority to issue rules relating to debit card interchange fees, network exclusivity and transaction routing. Specifically, the Durbin Interchange Amendment directs the Federal Reserve Board to establish standards for assessing whether the amount of any interchange fee that an issuer receives or charges with respect to a debit card transaction is “reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction.” The Durbin Interchange Amendment directs the Federal Reserve Board to consider, when prescribing regulations, the functional similarity between debit card transactions and check transactions and to distinguish between the incremental cost incurred by the issuer for the issuer’s role in the authorization, clearance, and settlement of a particular debit transaction, which shall be considered in setting the standard, and other costs incurred by an issuer that are not specific to a particular debit transaction, which shall not be considered in setting the standard. As an issuer of debit cards and receiver of interchange fees, our revenue on interchange fees may decrease as a result of the level of fees the Federal Reserve deems “reasonable and proportional” which it establishes regulation standards on the amount of interchange fees that can be charged. On December 16, 2010, the Federal Reserve Board approved release of draft rules for comment pertaining to the Durbin Interchange Amendment and final rules are expected to be 17 Table of Contents published in April, 2011 and taking effect in July, 2011. We have estimated that our revenues may decrease by $8.5 million in 2011 after these new rules take effect. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract new customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our business strategy includes significant growth plans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. During 2010, we undertook three significant acquisitions, which established a Chicago footprint consisting of 47 branch locations. We intend to continue pursuing a profitable growth strategy both within our existing markets and in new markets. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations, even if only on a short-term basis. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if we grow more slowly than anticipated or fail to successfully integrate newly acquired operations, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors, including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to integrate acquisitions and manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or, if available, that growth will be successfully managed. We may experience difficulties in integrating acquired assets and expanding our operations into new geographic areas and markets. The market areas in Chicago, Illinois served by the assets and branches we acquired during 2010 are areas in which we previously did not conduct significant banking activities. Our ability to compete effectively in these new markets will depend on our ability to understand the local market and competitive dynamics and identify and retain key employees who know these markets. We may also encounter obstacles when incorporating the acquired operations with our operations and management. We face risks with respect to future expansion. We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of expenses and risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger targets; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; 18 Table of Contents • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. We face significant competition for loans and deposits. We face significant competition for loans and deposits from other banks and financial institutions, both within and beyond our local marketplace. Within our region, we compete with commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, and investment banks for deposits, and with the same financial institutions and others (including mortgage brokers, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage houses) for loans. We also compete with companies that solicit loans and deposits over the Internet. Many of our competitors (including money center, national, and superregional banks) have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than we do, and may offer certain products and services that we do not offer. Because our profitability stems largely from our ability to attract deposits and originate loans, our continued ability to compete for depositors and borrowers is critical to our success. Our success as a competitor depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) our ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term relationships with our customers by providing them with convenience, in the form of multiple branch locations and extended hours of service; (ii) access, in the form of alternative delivery channels, such as online banking, banking by phone, and ATMs; (iii) a broad and diverse selection of products and services; (iv) interest rates and service fees that compare favorably with those of our competitors; and (v) skilled and knowledgeable personnel to assist our customers with their financial needs. External factors that may impact our ability to compete include changes in local economic conditions and real estate values, changes in interest rates and the consolidation of banks and thrifts within our marketplace. We are subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity. “Liquidity” refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations and to fulfill our obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay our wholesale borrowings and other liabilities and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by our customers. Our primary source of liquidity is our core deposit base, which is raised through our retail branch system. Core deposits comprised approximately 75.2% of total deposits at December 31, 2010. Additional available unused wholesale sources of liquidity include advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati, issuances through dealers in the capital markets and access to certificates of deposit issued through brokers. Liquidity is further provided by unencumbered, or unpledged, investment securities that totaled $1.0 billion at December 31, 2010. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market 19 Table of Contents downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or that are materially misleading, or on other financial information that is inaccurate or incomplete. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to a number of derivative transactions. Many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position difficult. We carry borrowings which contain embedded derivatives. These borrowing arrangements require that we deliver underlying securities to the counterparty as collateral. If market interest rates were to decline, we may be required to deliver more securities to the counterparty. We are dependent on the creditworthiness of the counterparties and are therefore susceptible to credit and operational risk in these situations. Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and, in the event of a default, may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. Any regulatory effort to create an exchange or trading platform for credit derivatives and other over-the-counter derivative contracts, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, comprehensive regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market to be implemented under the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect our treatment of these transactions. We are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. In the normal course of business, we, as well as our subsidiaries, are routinely subject to examinations from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments we have made and the businesses in which we have engaged. Recently, federal and state tax authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Loss of key employees may disrupt relationships with certain customers. Our business is primarily relationship-driven in that many of our key employees have extensive customer relationships. Loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor. While we believe our relationship with our key producers is good, we cannot guarantee that all of our key personnel will remain with our organization. Loss of such key personnel, should they enter into an employment relationship with one of our competitors, could result in the loss of some of our customers. Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. We may be exposed to liability under non-solicitation agreements to which one or more of our employees may be a party to with certain of our competitors. From time to time, we may hire employees who may be parties to non-solicitation or non-competition agreements with one or more of our competitors. Although we expect that all such employees will comply with the terms of their non-solicitation agreements, it is possible that if customers of our competitors choose to move their business to us, or employees of our competitor seek employment with us, even without any action on the part of any employee bound by any such agreement, that one or more of our competitors may choose to bring a claim against us and our employee. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our business we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As we experience loan losses, additional capital may need to be infused. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on our financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The primary source of our income from which we pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from FirstMerit Bank, which is subject to regulatory restrictions on its payment of dividends. The availability of dividends from FirstMerit Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of FirstMerit Bank and other factors, that the OCC could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. In addition, the payment of dividends by other 21 Table of Contents subsidiaries is also subject to the laws of the subsidiary’s state of incorporation. Our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event that FirstMerit Bank was unable to pay dividends to us, we in turn would likely have to reduce or stop paying dividends on our common shares. Our failure to pay dividends on our common shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Additional information regarding dividend restrictions is provided in Item 1. Business in the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision — Dividends and Transactions with Affiliates.” Our organizational documents, state laws and regulated industry may discourage a third party from acquiring us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated code of regulations, certain laws of the State of Ohio, and certain aspects of the BHCA and other governing statutes and regulations, may have the effect of discouraging a tender offer or other takeover attempt not previously approved by our Board of Directors. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. Our business may be adversely impacted by acts of war or terrorism. Acts of war or terrorism could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business. Such events could affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, could impair the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could cause significant property damage, thus increasing our expenses and/or reducing our revenues. In addition, such events could affect the ability of our depositors to maintain their deposits. Although we have established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits, and our loans. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions, and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of our security systems could deter customers from using our web site and our online banking service, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although we rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource certain of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the provision of financial products and services has become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new 22 Table of Contents technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Legal and Regulatory Environment Our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board impact us significantly. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold. Such policies determine to a significant extent our cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve Board policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The enactment of new legislation and increased regulatory oversight may significantly affect our financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. FirstMerit Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the FDIC. As a holding company, we also are subject to regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. Federal and state regulation of financial institutions is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, and not to benefit our shareholders. Such regulations can at times impose significant limitations on our operations. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in Congress and before bank regulatory authorities, as evidenced by the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. Substantial regulatory and legislation initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the financial regulatory system in the United States, could materially affect our business, and the nature and scope of future major changes and their effects are impossible to determine. Moreover, it is impossible to predict the ultimate form newly proposed legislation might take or how it might affect us. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States. There are a number of reform provisions that are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including us and FirstMerit Bank, do business. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act changes the assessment base for federal deposit insurance premiums by modifying the deposit insurance assessment base calculation to equal a depository institution’s consolidated assets less tangible capital and permanently increases the standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer to $250,000 and non-interest bearing transaction accounts will have unlimited deposit insurance through January 1, 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a new agency empowered to promulgate new and revise existing consumer protection regulations which may limit certain consumer fees or otherwise significantly change fee practices. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on bank holding companies and prohibiting new trust preferred issuances from counting as Tier I capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also repeals the federal prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. Other significant changes from provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act include, but are not limited to: (i) changes to rules relating to debit card interchange fees; (ii) new comprehensive regulation of the over-the counter derivatives market; (iii) reform related to the regulation of credit rating agencies; (iv) restrictions on the ability 23 Table of Contents of banks to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds; and (v) the implementation of a number of new corporate governance provisions, including, but not limited to, requiring companies to “claw back” incentive compensation under certain circumstances, providing shareholders the opportunity to cast a non-binding vote on executive compensation, new executive compensation disclosure requirements and considerations regarding the independence of compensation advisors. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be implemented immediately and will require interpretation and rule making by federal regulators. We are closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on us cannot currently be determined, the law and its implementing rules and regulations are likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on our operations, all of which may have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising in foreclosure practices, including delays in the foreclosure process, related to certain industry deficiencies, as well as potential losses in connection with actual or projected repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages sold into the secondary market. Recent announcements of deficiencies in foreclosure documentation by several large seller/servicer financial institutions have raised various concerns relating to mortgage foreclosure practices in the United States. A group of state attorneys general and state bank and mortgage regulators in all 50 states and the District of Columbia is currently reviewing foreclosure practices and a number of mortgage sellers/servicers have temporarily suspended foreclosure proceedings in some or all states in which they do business in order to evaluate their foreclosure practices and underlying documentation. The integrity of the foreclosure process is important to our business, as an originator and servicer of residential mortgages. As a result of our continued focus of concentrating our lending efforts in our primary markets in Ohio, Illinois and Pennsylvania, as well as servicing loans for the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), we do not anticipate suspending any of its foreclosure activities. During the third quarter of 2010, we reviewed our foreclosure procedures and concluded they are generally conservative in nature and do not present the significant documentation deficiencies underlying other industry foreclosure problems. Nevertheless, we could face delays and challenges in the foreclosure process arising from claims relating to industry practices generally, which could adversely affect recoveries and our financial results, whether through increased expenses of litigation and property maintenance, deteriorating values of underlying mortgaged properties or unsuccessful litigation results generally. In addition, in connection with the origination and sale of residential mortgages into the secondary market, we make certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require us to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. Although we believe that our mortgage documentation and procedures have been appropriate and are generally conservative in nature, it is possible that we will receive repurchase requests in the future and we may not be able to reach favorable settlements with respect to such requests. It is therefore possible that we may increase our reserves or may sustain losses associated with such loan repurchases and indemnification payments. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we own and operate certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental 24 Table of Contents liability. Although we have policies and procedures requiring the performance of an environmental site assessment before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these assessments may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have been and will continue to be the subject of litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our business and reputation. From time to time, we may be subject to claims or legal action from customers, employees and/or others. Financial institutions like FirstMerit are facing a growing number of significant class actions, including those based on the manner of calculation of interest on loans and the assessment of overdraft fees. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. We are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business. These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. Like other large financial institutions, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to our business. Additional information regarding litigation is included in Note 18 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the consolidated financial statements and in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 