ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report. These factors represent risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we do not presently consider significant may also impair our business or the trading price of our securities. If we do not execute on our strategic initiatives, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The future success of our business will depend significantly on our ability to execute effectively and implement the strategic initiatives. These initiatives consist of executing our market strategy including designing products to meet market trends and ensuring that an appropriate infrastructure is in place to meet the needs of customers; continuing to reduce product costs; and further improving the efficiency of operations, including lowering operating costs and enabling higher value services. Successful execution of these initiatives depends on a number of factors including: · The ability to attract and retain sufficient number of key technical employees and senior management personnel; · Retaining customers by providing the necessary levels of support and service our products; · Our ability to develop and introduce new products or programs because of the inherent risks and uncertainties associated with product development, particularly in response to government regulations; · The identification and introduction of the proper mix or integration of products that will be embraced by the marketplace; · Our business may be subject to changes in laws, regulations and certification requirements with respect to our voting products; · Due to the political nature of our voting business, there is a risk that election jurisdictions may decertify our voting products that had previously been certified; and · The ability of our products and services to differentiate us from our competitors and for us to demonstrate that our products and services result in enhanced product quality, functionality and reduced costs. Further, our success will depend upon our ability to maintain proper internal control and to enhance the performance of the existing procedures and processes to adequately support our operations, strategies and business objectives. We are dependent on a few customers, which include customers which are related parties to the Company. Our business to date has been dependent on major contracts from a few different customers. During the fiscal year ended April 30, 2014, only three customers accounted for 92% of our total revenue. Additionally, during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2014, one customer that accounted for 52% of our total revenue is a related party to our company. The loss of one or more of these customers or failure to replace completed contracts with new contracts from existing customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. Should we fail to successfully manage our key vendors, our financial results could be burdened. Our arrangements with key vendors may make our operations vulnerable if those third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to our company due to changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters outside of our control. If we fail to achieve favorable pricing from our vendors, our profitability could be adversely impacted. Our profitability is affected by our ability to achieve favorable pricing with our vendors. Our inability to establish a cost and product advantage, or determine alternative means to deliver value to our customers, may adversely affect our revenues, and profitability. 11 Table of Contents We could experience manufacturing interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies if we are unable to procure in a timely and reliable manner components and products from single-source or limited-source suppliers. We maintain several single-source or limited-source supplier relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or because the relationships are advantageous to us due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If the supply of a critical single- or limited-source product or component is delayed or curtailed, we may not be able to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. Even where multiple sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of revenues, which could harm our operating results. Significant supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products. Our reliance on third-party suppliers for parts and components used in our products exposes us to volatility in the availability of these parts and components. A disruption in deliveries from our third-party suppliers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Quality issues experienced by third-party providers can also adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and result in liability and reputational harm. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our operating results and competitive position may be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products. We must also achieve market acceptance for these products and enhancements. If we do not successfully develop and achieve market acceptance for new and enhanced products, our ability to maintain or increase revenues will suffer. Even if new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them in a timely manner. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. In the highly competitive industries in which we operate, operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Hence, comparative results between periods may not be indicative of trends in revenue. We anticipate that our cash flows from operations, expected contract payments and available cash will be sufficient to enable us to meet our liquidity needs through at least April 30, 2015. Although we are not aware of any particular trends, in the event that we are unable to secure new business, we may experience reduced liquidity or insufficient cash flows. Interpretations and applications of policies regarding revenue recognition could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue and profits. Revenue associated with the sale and licensing of our company’s voting system products and services will be recognized in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). As our transactions increase in complexity with the sale of multi-element products and services, negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle and, in certain situations, may require us to defer recognition of revenue on such licenses. We believe that we are in compliance with U.S. GAAP; however these future, more complex, multi-product, multi-year license transactions may require additional accounting analysis to account for them accurately could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices and may contain terms affecting the timing of revenue recognition. Insurance We maintain third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks of property loss. While we believe these arrangements are an effective way to insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with those risks or other events could exceed the coverage provided by such arrangements. 12 Table of Contents The requirements of complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may strain our resources and distract management. Our company is not an accelerated filer as defined under the relevant SEC regulations; thus, we are only required to maintain and periodically certify that we have effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to continuously maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, significant resources and management oversight may be required as we may need to devote additional time and personnel to legal, financial and accounting activities to ensure ongoing compliance. The costs associated therewith could be significant. In addition, the effort to prepare for these obligations and maintain effective internal controls may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The voting segment of our business is critically dependent on our ability to obtain federal and state certification for our voting system products. The markets for our voting products and services are affected by changing technology and regulatory industry standards. Our ability to anticipate or respond to such changes and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that meet all federal and state certifications on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to expand, remain competitive and attract new customers. We can give no assurance that we will achieve the necessary technological advances or have the financial resources needed to introduce new products or services on a timely basis or that we will otherwise have the ability to compete effectively in the markets we serve. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institution in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail. Our cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. However, our investments in money market funds are not insured. In addition, our cash balances in financial institutions may exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) limitation for coverage of $250,000. We also reduce our exposure to credit risk by maintaining all of our cash balances with highly rated financial institutions. While we strive to monitor our cash and cash equivalent balances regularly, these balances could be impacted if the financial institution in which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. We may not receive significant revenues from our research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing new products is costly, and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle. We have and expect to continue investing in research and development and related product opportunities. Enhancing our products and pursuing new product developments require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we might not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. Our business competes on the basis of the security and integrity of our systems and products. We believe that our success depends, in part, on providing secure products and systems to our customers. Attempts to penetrate security measures may come from various combinations of customers, retailers, vendors, employees and others. There can be no assurance that our business will not be affected by a security breach or lapse, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, business or prospects. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur substantial warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Consistent with customary practice in our industry, we warrant our products and/or services to be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expenses to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline. 13 Table of Contents Changes in domestic and foreign business restrictions or laws could have a significant impact on our operations. The countries in which we market our products generally have regulations governing lottery or totalizator operations, and the appropriate governing body could restrict or ban operations in these countries. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our company and our customers’ operations. Foreign countries often impose restrictions on corporations seeking to do business within their borders, including foreign exchange controls, and in some jurisdictions, requirements for domestic manufacturing content. In addition, laws and legal procedures in these countries may differ from those generally existing in the United States. Conducting business in these countries may involve additional risks in protecting our business and assets, including proprietary information. Changes in foreign business restrictions or laws could have a significant impact on our operations. Competitive pressures we face could harm our revenues and profits. We compete for business opportunities against many domestic and foreign businesses. In many cases, our competition has greater financial resources which may affect the outcome of a bid, regardless of the products and/or services that we have the capability of providing. Also, in order to be competitive, we may price our products and services to a point where it could translate to lower revenues and profitability for our company. Our business transactions may be subject to foreign currency fluctuation. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Sales are denominated almost exclusively in U.S. dollars. Occasionally, sales have been effected in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates from reporting period to reporting period between various foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may have an impact on revenue and expense. Such effect may be material in any individual reporting period. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. Although we have not been the subject of any such actions, third parties may in the future assert against us infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. Third parties may in the future assert claims against our suppliers that such suppliers have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. If such infringement by our suppliers or us were found to exist, a party could seek an injunction preventing the use of their intellectual property or require us to take a license for the use of their intellectual property, either of which would have an adverse impact on our revenues. Our voting systems might face adverse publicity including legal and political challenges which may negatively impact our operating results. Due to the sensitivity of the general public to the reliability and security of voting systems, our company might be vulnerable to adverse publicity posed by certain advocacy groups challenging our products’ integrity and dependability. These actions may negatively affect our financial results and customer relations. Volatility of stock price Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Markets and has previously been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Stocks quoted on the OTC Markets and OTC Bulletin Board generally have limited trading volume and exhibit a wide spread between the bid/ask quotation. Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in financial results, the competitive landscape, general economic and market conditions, and estimates and projections by the investment community. The current global economic slowdown and credit crunch may adversely affect our business and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict. The current global economic slowdown may have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. We cannot predict the effect that the economic slowdown will have on us as it also impacts our customers, vendors and business partners. We believe that the global credit crunch may negatively impact our potential and existing customers’ ability to obtain financing for lottery and voting projects which in turn may affect our ability to secure new contracts to generate revenue. 14 Table of Contents Our strategic alliances may not result in the materialization of the anticipated benefits. Part of our corporate strategy is to pursue growth through strategic alliances to gain access to new and tactically important geographies, and business opportunities and to capitalize on existing business relationships. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these alliances that we may enter into, or may not realize them in the timeframe expected. These arrangements pose significant risks that could have a negative effect on our operations, including the potential failure to realize anticipated synergies, unanticipated costs and other unanticipated events or circumstances; and our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the arrangements. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, contractors, and consultants. These agreements may not effectively prevent the disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Our common stock is subject to penny stock rules. Our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 (or $300,000 together with their spouse)). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule adversely affects the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and purchasers of our common stock to sell their shares of such common stock. Additionally, our common stock is subject to the SEC regulations for "penny stock." Penny stock includes any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule set forth by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for the common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock which disclose recent price information for the penny stock and information of the limited market for penny stocks. These requirements adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility, if any, may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Our board of directors and majority shareholder have approved a “going-private” transaction that would result in all of our outstanding equity securities being held by BLM. Our board of directors and majority shareholder have approved a “going-private” transaction that would result in all of our outstanding equity securities being held by BLM. On January 8, 2014, our board of directors and majority shareholder approved the Reincorporation and Reverse Stock Split pursuant to which each shareholder holding less than one full share of common stock following the Reverse Stock Split, being every shareholder other than BLM, will receive a cash payment from us for their fractional share interests equal to $1.33 in cash, without interest, for each share of common stock held by such shareholder immediately prior to the Reverse Stock Split. Each shareholder receiving such a cash payment in lieu of fractional share interests will thereafter cease to be our shareholder, will not have any direct or indirect ownership interest in us, and will not be able to participate in any of our future earnings or growth. Further, all shareholders holding fractional shares interests following the Reverse Stock Split will receive $1.33 per pre-Reverse Stock Split share of common stock, regardless of the price paid by such shareholder for shares of our common stock. Following consummation of the Reverse Stock Split, we will promptly terminate our registration and reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and there will not be any trading market for shares of our common stock. We have filed a preliminary Information Statement with the SEC with respect to the Reincorporation and Reverse Stock Split, which currently remains under review. The Reincorporation and the Reverse Stock Split will be effected on or about the date 20 calendar days following the date on which a definitive Information Statement is mailed to our shareholders, which we expect to occur in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2014. However, the timing of the consummation of the Reincorporation and Reverse Stock Split remain uncertain and subject to change. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 