Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. The current uncertain market and economic conditions may continue to affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic and market conditions in the United States and abroad. Given our concentration of business activities in the United States and due to the nature of our historical business as a consumer lender to generally non-conforming and non-prime customers, we are particularly exposed to any additional turmoil in the economy, housing downturns, high unemployment, tight credit conditions and reduced economic growth that have occurred over the past three years and appear likely to continue in 2011. General business, economic and market conditions that could continue to affect us include: • low consumer confidence and reduced consumer spending; • a “double dip” recession; • unemployment levels: • wage income levels and declines in wealth; • market value of real estate throughout the United States; • inflation; • monetary supply; • fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations; • unexpected geopolitical events; • fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; • short-term and long-term interest rates; • availability of liquidity; • tight consumer credit conditions; 14 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation • higher bankruptcy filings; and • new laws, regulations or regulatory initiatives. In a challenging economic environment such as currently being experienced in the United States, more of our customers are likely to, and have in fact become, delinquent on their loans or other obligations as compared to historical periods as many of our customers are experiencing reductions in cash flow available to service their debt. These delinquencies, in turn, have resulted in higher levels of provision for credit losses and charge-offs, which have adversely affected our earnings and resulted in significant losses from the third quarter of 2007 to date. The problems in the housing markets in the United States in the last four years have been exacerbated by continued high unemployment rates. If businesses remain cautious to hire, additional losses are likely to be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards, due to decreased consumer income. Although during the first half of 2010, housing prices began to stabilize and even recover in certain markets, housing prices started to decline again in the latter half of 2010. If housing prices continue to decline, there may be increased delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. Mortgage lenders have substantially tightened lending standards. These actions have impacted borrowers’ abilities to refinance existing mortgage loans. The ability to refinance and extract equity from their homes is no longer an option for many of our customers. This, in turn, impacted both credit performance and run-off rates and has resulted in significantly elevated delinquency rates for real estate secured loans in our portfolio. Additionally, the high levels of inventory of homes for sale combined with depressed property values in many markets has resulted in higher loss severities on homes that are foreclosed and remarketed. Despite our cessation in processing foreclosures in December, our inventory of foreclosed properties (real estate owned or “REO”) continued to increase during 2010 and is at its highest levels since the third quarter of 2008. Although average REO loss severities were relatively stable in 2010 compared to 2009, the level of severities has been increasing in the latter half of 2010. If severities continue to increase, it could have a significant impact on future losses. In the event economic conditions continue to be depressed or become further depressed and lead to a “double dip” recession, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios with a corresponding impact on our results of operations. We may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage foreclosure processes and the industry-wide delay in processing foreclosures may have a significant impact upon loss severity. State and federal officials are investigating the procedures followed by mortgage servicing companies and banks, including HSBC Finance Corporation and certain of our affiliates, relating to foreclosures. We and our affiliates have responded to all related inquiries and cooperated with all applicable investigations, including a joint examination by staffs of the Federal Reserve and the OCC as part of their broad horizontal review of industry foreclosure practices. Following the examination, the Federal Reserve issued a supervisory letter to HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC North America noting certain deficiencies in the processing, preparation and signing of affidavits and other documents supporting foreclosures and in governance of and resources devoted to our foreclosure processes, including the evaluation and monitoring of third party law firms retained to effect our foreclosures. Certain other processes were deemed adequate. The OCC issued a similar supervisory letter to HSBC Bank USA. We have suspended foreclosures until such time as we have substantially addressed the noted deficiencies in our processes. We are also reviewing foreclosures where judgment has not yet been entered and will correct deficient documentation and re-file affidavits where necessary. We and our affiliates are engaged in discussions with the Federal Reserve and the OCC regarding the terms of consent cease and desist orders, which will prescribe actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination. We expect the consent orders will be finalized shortly after the date this Form 10-K is filed. While the impact of the Federal Reserve consent order on HSBC Finance Corporation depends on the final terms, we believe it has the potential to increase our operational, reputational and legal risk profiles and expect implementation of its provisions will require significant financial and managerial resources. In addition, the consent orders will not preclude further actions against HSBC Finance Corporation or our affiliates by bank regulatory or other 15 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation agencies, including the imposition of fines and civil money penalties. We are unable at this time, however, to determine the likelihood of any further action or the amount of penalties or fines, if any, that may be imposed by the regulators or agencies. We expect to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with the correction or affirmation of previously filed foreclosure paperwork and the resulting delays in foreclosures, including costs associated with the maintenance of properties while foreclosures are delayed, legal expenses associated with re-filing documents or, as necessary, re-filing foreclosure cases, and costs associated with fluctuations in home prices while foreclosures are delayed. These costs could increase depending on the length of the delay. In addition, we may incur additional costs and expenses as a result of legislative, administrative or regulatory investigations or actions relating to our foreclosure processes or with respect to the mortgage servicing industry in general. We may also see an increase in private litigation concerning our practices. However, it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters or the impact that they will have on our financial results. Due to the significant slow-down in foreclosures, and in some instances, cessation of all foreclosure processing by numerous loan servicers, including us, for some period of time in 2011 there may be some reduction in the number of properties being marketed following foreclosure. The impact of that decrease may increase demand for properties currently on the market resulting in a stabilization of home prices but could also result in a larger number of vacant properties in communities creating downward pressure on general property values. As a result, the short term impact of the foreclosure processing delay is highly uncertain. However, the longer term impact is even more uncertain as eventually servicers will again begin to foreclose and market properties in large numbers which is likely to create a significant over-supply of housing inventory. This could lead to a significant increase in loss severity on REO properties. Recently implemented Federal and state laws and regulations may significantly impact our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations, including changes in tax rates, affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. Ensuring compliance with increasing regulatory requirements and initiatives could affect operations costs and negatively impact our overall results. Specifically, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the credit card industry and, more recently, to additionally address perceived problems in the financial services industry generally through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of products we can offer, how these products may be originated, the fees and charges that may be applied to accounts, and how accounts may be collected or security interests enforced which ultimately could negatively impact our results. There is also significant focus on loss mitigation and foreclosure activity for real estate loans. We cannot fully anticipate the response by national regulatory agencies, state attorneys general, or certain legislators, or if significant changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result. On July 21, 2010, the “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act,” which is a sweeping overhaul of the financial services industry, was signed into law. For a description of the law, see the “Regulation – Financial Regulatory Reform” section under the “Regulation and Competition” section of Item 1. Business. The law will have significant impact on the operations of financial institutions in the U.S., including us and our affiliates. We are unable at this time, however, to determine the full impact of the law due to the significant number of new rules and regulations which will be promulgated in order to implement the law. Also, specifically and of utmost relevance to our Card and Retail Services and Consumer businesses, we do not know what will be the far-reaching effect on our business of the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), since the CFPB has been given broad based authority over consumer products and services such as provided by our Card and Retail Services and Consumer businesses. On May 22, 2009, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 was signed into law and we have implemented all of its applicable provisions. The CARD Act required changes to our business practices, and will require us and our competitors to manage risk differently than has historically been the case. Pricing, underwriting and product changes have either been implemented or are under continuing analysis to 16 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation partially mitigate the impact of the new legislation and implementing regulations. Although implementation of the new rules has had a significant financial impact on us, the full impact of the CARD Act remains uncertain at this time as it will ultimately depend upon successful implementation of our strategies, consumer behavior and the actions of our competitors, as well as the clarifying rules issued by the regulators. The transition to Basel II in 2011 may continue to put significant pressure on regulatory capital. Subject to regulatory approval, HSBC North America will be required to adopt Basel II provisions no later than April 1, 2011, in accordance with current regulatory timelines. While Basel II does not apply directly to us, as a subsidiary of HSBC North America, we may be required to execute certain actions or strategies to ensure HSBC North America meets its capital requirements. For instance, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we executed two balance sheet management strategies to increase total capital as measured under the Basel guidelines. First, we exchanged $1.8 billion in outstanding senior unsecured debt for $1.9 billion of subordinated debt. Second, we reopened the subordinated debt issuance described above and increased the outstanding balance of this debt issue by $1.0 billion. In both instances, interest expense increased and net interest income declined as we replaced senior debt positions with the higher yielding subordinated debt. The amount of capital required prior to the Basel II adoption date will depend on our prevailing risk profile and that of our North America affiliates under various stress scenarios. Adoption of the Basel II provisions must be preceded by a parallel run period of at least four quarters, and requires the approval of U.S. regulators. This parallel run, which was initiated by HSBC North America in January 2010, encompasses enhancements to a number of risk policies, processes and systems to align with the Basel II final rule requirements. HSBC North America will seek regulatory approval for adoption when the program enhancements have been completed which may extend beyond April 1, 2011. Key employees may be difficult to retain due to contraction of the business and limits on promotional opportunities. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our businesses, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The significant losses we have recognized, reductions in variable compensation and other benefits, reductions of the size and scope of operations and the winding down of significant portions of the businesses could raise concerns about key employees’ future compensation and promotional opportunities. As economic conditions improve, there will be increased risk to retain top performers and critical skill employees. If key personnel were to leave us and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable within HSBC or could not be sourced in the market to fill these roles, our ability to efficiently manage through the difficult economy and transformational changes may be hindered or impaired. Performance of modified loans in the current economic conditions may prove less predictable and result in higher losses. In an effort to provide assistance to our customers who are experiencing financial difficulties in the current weak economy, in the last four years we have agreed to modify the terms of a significant number of our loans. While we have a long-standing history of working with customers experiencing financial difficulties, the number of customers that have needed and qualified for loan modifications is significantly higher than our historical experience. Under the current economic conditions, the credit performance of these modified loans may not conform to either historical experience or our expectations. In addition, further deterioration in housing prices and unemployment could negatively impact the performance of the modified portfolio. While our credit loss reserve process considers whether loans have been reaged, re-written or are subject to modification, loss reserve estimates are influenced by factors outside our control, such as consumer payment patterns and economic conditions, making it reasonably possible that they could change in either direction. A significant rise in interest rates may significantly impact our net interest income which may adversely impact our financial results. Both our consumer lending and mortgage services’ real estate secured receivables will continue to remain on our balance sheet for extended durations. Reduced mortgage prepayment rates and higher levels of loan modifications have had the effect of extending the projected average life of these loan portfolios. As a result, both net interest income at risk and asset portfolio valuations have increasingly become exposed to rising interest rates as the average life of our liability portfolios has declined while the average life of our asset portfolios has extended. In the event we are not successful in fully mitigating these risks and interest rates rise 17 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation significantly, net interest income, and consequently, net income or loss, would be negatively affected. Also, with increased risks remaining on the balance sheet, we may be called upon by HSBC North America to raise capital or to execute certain actions or strategies to ensure HSBC North America meets its capital requirements. Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, human error, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business and reputation. Operational risk is inherent in virtually all of our activities. While we have established and maintain an overall risk framework that is designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well-defined independent risk management, we continue to be subject to some degree of operational risk. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other recordkeeping systems and management controls fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. HSBC North America will continue the implementation of several high priority systems improvements and enhancements in 2011, each of which may present increased or additional operational risk that may not be known until their implementation is complete. Also, in order to react quickly to newly implemented regulatory requirements, implementation of changes to systems and enhancements may be required to be completed within very tight time frames, which would increase operational risk. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems infrastructure arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include: • computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages; • natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes; • events arising from local, regional or international politics, including terrorist acts; • unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems; or • global pandemics, which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability by us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are likely to occur from time to time. In recent years, instances of identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Use of the internet for these purposes has also increased. Such acts can have the following possible impacts: • threaten the assets of our customers; • negatively impact customer credit ratings; • impact customers’ ability to repay loan balances; • increase costs for us to respond to such threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure maximum security of data; or • damage our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into our systems and databases. 18 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include: • raising the minimum payment or fees to be charged on credit card accounts; • determinating to acquire or sell credit card, real estate secured or other receivables; • changes to our charge-off policies or customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices; • increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or • outsourcing of various operations. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings may continue and increase in the current economic and anticipated regulatory environment. HSBC Finance Corporation and our subsidiaries are named as defendants in various legal actions, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. We saw continued litigation in 2010 resulting from the deterioration of customers’ financial condition, the mortgage market’s continued downturn and general economic conditions. There is no certainty that the litigation will decrease in the near future, especially in the event of continued high unemployment rates, a resurgent recession or additional regulatory investigations by the federal and state governments or agencies. With the increased regulatory environment, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by banking regulators, state attorneys general or state regulators which may cause financial or reputational harm. With the increased regulatory environment, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by regulators and other enforcement agencies that, if determined adversely, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational harm. Our inability to meet funding requirements due to our balance sheet attrition or ratings could impact operations. Adequate liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. The pace of our balance sheet attrition has a significant impact on our liquidity and risk management processes. Properly managing these processes is critical to mitigating liquidity risk. Lower cash flow resulting from declining non-core receivable balances as well as lower cash generated from balance sheet attrition due to increased charge-offs may not provide sufficient cash to fully cover maturing debt over the next four to five years. If market pricing for receivables improves, a portion of the required funding could be generated through sales of receivable portfolios. Additionally, HSBC Finance Corporation continues to enjoy access to funding through issuance in the primary debt markets. A portion of any funding gap could be covered through the selected issuance of debt. In the event a portion of this gap was met through issuances of term debt to either retail or institutional investors, we anticipate these issuances would be structured to better match the projected cash flows of the remaining run-off portfolio and reduce reliance on direct HSBC support. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. As indicated by the major credit rating agencies, our credit ratings are directly dependent on the continued support of HSBC. Any downgrade in credit ratings would increase borrowing costs, impact the ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on the severity of the downgrade, substantially limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain significant contracts. Our reputation has a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations. Our ability to attract customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our 19 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to: • appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; • legal and regulatory requirements; • ethical issues, including alleged deceptive or unfair lending or servicing practices; • anti-money laundering and economic sanctions programs; • privacy issues; • fraud issues; • data security issues related to our customers or employees; • record-keeping; • sales and trading practices; • the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent our businesses; and • general company performance. The failure to address these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us or give rise to increased regulatory action, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Unanticipated risks may impact our results. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit market, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques and prepare contingency plans in anticipation of developments, those techniques and plans and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage all significant risks we face is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. Competition in the credit card industry may have a material adverse impact on our future results. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitive conditions are expected to continue to intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies. New products, customers and channels of distribution are constantly emerging. Such competition may impact the terms, rates, costs and/or profits historically included in the financial products we offer and purchase. There is no assurance that the significant and increasing competition within the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect our future results. Management projections, estimates and judgments based on historical performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, including goodwill and intangibles, among other items. Certain asset and liability valuations and, in particular, loan loss reserve estimates are judgmental and are influenced by factors outside our control. Judgment remains a more significant factor in the estimation of inherent probable losses in the portfolios. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency and the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in historical models, unexpected additional losses could result. Alternatively, the recent historical performance trends of high unemployment rates and home price depreciation occurring in the last several years, may now not be reflective of the performance of loans modified since January 2007 as a result of recent improvements in the economic environment, so judgment is again a more significant factor in the estimation of losses related to modified loans. 20 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation Another example in which management judgment is significant is in the evaluation of the recognition of deferred tax assets and in the determination of whether there is a need for a related valuation allowance. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC as a necessary part of such plans and strategies. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. However, since market conditions have created losses in HSBC North America in recent periods and volatility on our pre-tax book income, the analysis of the realizability of the deferred tax asset significantly discounts any future taxable income expected from continuing operations and relies to a greater extent on continued capital support from our parent, HSBC, including tax planning strategies implemented in relation to such support. Included in our forecasts are assumptions regarding our estimate of future expected credit losses which include assumptions about further home price depreciation and future unemployment levels and their related impact on credit losses. The use of different assumptions can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Note 18, “Income Taxes,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance. Changes in accounting standards are beyond our control and may have a material impact on how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board, change the financial accounting and reporting standards, or the interpretation thereof, and guidance that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. Significant reductions in pension assets may require additional financial contributions from us. Effective January 1, 2005, our previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Bank USA’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. We are responsible for providing approximately 33 percent of the financial support required by the plan. In 2010 and 2009, the plan had allocated assets between three primary strategies: domestic equities, international equities and fixed income securities. At December 31, 2010, plan assets were lower than projected plan liabilities resulting in an under-funded status. During 2010, domestic and international equity indices increased between 11 percent and 17 percent while interest rates decreased. After expenses, the combination of positive equity returns and fixed income returns along with a $187 million contribution to the plan by HSBC North America in 2010 resulted in an overall increase in plan assets of 20 percent in 2010. This increase, when combined with an increase in the projected benefit obligation continued to result in an under-funded status. At December 31, 2010, the defined benefit plan was frozen, significantly reducing future benefit accruals. The projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $820 million. As these obligations relate to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of this deficit should be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North American affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the Pension Protection Act. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. See Note 22, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information concerning the HSBC North America defined benefit plan. 21 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2010. 