Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC, could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that may face HSBC Finance Corporation. General business, economic and market conditions. Due to the nature of our business as a consumer lender to generally non-conforming and non-prime customers, we are particularly exposed to the unprecedented turmoil in the economy, housing downturn and market disruption that have occurred over the past year and appear likely to continue into 2010. Business, economic and market conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, recession, unemployment, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations, availability of liquidity, market value of consumer owned real estate throughout the United States, tighter consumer credit conditions and the ease of filing and amounts recoverable in bankruptcy. In addition, new laws, regulations or regulatory initiatives could impact any of these factors or our operations directly. 14 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation In a poor economic environment such as currently being experienced in the United States, more of our non-prime customers or counterparties are likely to, and have in fact, become delinquent on their loans or other obligations. These delinquencies, in turn, have resulted in higher levels of provision for credit losses and charge-offs, which have adversely affected our earnings. The problems in the housing market in the United States in the last two years have now been made more severe by the significantly climbing unemployment rate. Unemployment rates are rising in all markets but even more dramatically in the same markets which are experiencing the greatest home value depreciation. Although gasoline costs have decreased in recent months, the unemployment rates have negated the benefit of the lowering costs of gasoline. The increase in household debt as against household income has been most pronounced in our customers’ households. If the recession becomes more severe and unemployment rates continue to increase, additional losses are likely to be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards. Additionally, with a loss in consumer confidence, we expect credit card and private label originations to further decrease. In 2008 a continued dramatic slow down in the appreciation of property values was experienced throughout much of the United States. Most markets experienced depreciation in property values, and this appears to be an ongoing trend. We believe that the slowdown in the housing market will be deeper in terms of its impact on housing prices and the duration will extend into 2010. Continued or expanded slowing of appreciation or increased depreciation can be expected to result in higher delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. The changes to the conditions described above were a significant factor in our decision to discontinue certain loan products and services as demand for our products and services diminished and it became significantly costly to provide such products or services. Mortgage lenders have substantially tightened lending standards. These actions have impacted borrowers’ abilities to refinance existing mortgage loans. The ability to refinance and extract equity from their homes is no longer an option to many of our customers. This impacted volume of our originations and both credit performance and run-off rates and also was a significant factor in our decision to discontinue new real estate loan originations in 2009, and has resulted in significantly elevated delinquency rates for real estate secured loans in our portfolio. This is also expected to continue. Additionally, an increasing inventory of homes for sale combined with declining property values in many markets is resulting in increased loss severity on homes that are foreclosed and remarketed and is impacting the ability of some of our customers to continue to pay on their loan. In the event current economic conditions continue to worsen considerably, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios leading to continued losses to be reported from operations. Liquidity. Our liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. Restrictions to our liquidity are likely to have a negative effect on our financial results and our operations. In 2008, domestic and international capital markets continued to be extremely volatile and reactionary. Debt investors appear to be waiting to fully understand the level and specifics of Treasury intervention, as well as the U.S. government’s economic stimulus plans. Other than for offerings supported by an FDIC guarantee of repayment under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”), institutional fixed income investors have been reluctant to commit liquidity to the financial sector. As a result, throughout 2008 and into 2009, credit spreads have been at historically wide levels. Commercial paper markets continue to remain open, although investors, for the most part, are requesting very short-term maturities with a higher percentage rolling maturities on an overnight basis. To supplement our liquidity management process we are participating in the CPFF program and have issued $520 million under the program at December 31, 2008. Due to the extension of the CPFF through October 2009, our ability to fund in the short-term market will ensure our ability to substantially meet our funding requirements in 2009. We have, and will continue to evaluate participation in liquidity enhancement programs, such as the TLGP. Absent a normalization of the credit markets, our ability to fund in the term debt markets could be impacted which may result in stress on our ability to manage liquidity in 2010. Traditional providers of credit to the subprime market have either reduced their exposure to subprime assets or markedly tightened the credit standards necessary to receive financing for these assets. This has both raised our cost of funds and reduced the availability of third party funding. Potential conditions that will negatively affect our liquidity include ongoing diminished access to capital markets, a reduction in committed credit, unforeseen cash or 15 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation capital requirements, a further slow down in cash collections, an inability to sell assets and an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients. Capital infusions from our parent, HSBC, have been essential to our continued operations. HSBC has demonstrated its support through significant capital contributions in the last two years. HSBC is committed to and has the capacity to fund the needs of the business (under most foreseeable circumstances) but has never been a guarantor of the debt. Tightly managing our balance sheet growth is critical if we are to mitigate liquidity risk. In January 2009, we sold General Motors MasterCard receivables, AFL-CIO Union Plus MasterCard/Visa credit card receivables and certain auto finance receivables to HSBC Bank USA. The combination of these sales, capital contributions from our parent, achieving our balance sheet reduction goals and generating cash from operations will be important in achieving our 2009 funding requirements. In April 2009, $3.8 billion of the $7.3 billion of third party provided committed bank credit facilities that support our commercial paper issuance will mature. Based upon market conditions, we do not expect that all of these lines will renew. While we expect that sufficient back-up lines will renew to support our commercial paper program, it cannot be assured. In addition, conduit credit facilities provided by commercial and investment banks provide liquidity in an amount up to $8.2 billion. Subsequent to the sale of certain credit card and auto finance receivables to HSBC Bank USA, on January 9, 2009 we had $4.1 billion of conduit credit facilities with commercial and investment banks against which we had borrowed $3.1 billion backed with credit card and personal non-credit card receivables. All of these remaining facilities renew in 2009 and we expect a majority of the providers of these facilities to elect not to renew. If all or a significant portion of the expiring lines or conduit facilities are not renewed, we would be forced to seek alternative sources of funding that could be at interest rates that would negatively impact our net interest income and consequently, net income or loss. However, our ability to fund through October 30, 2009 under the CPFF program mitigates this risk in the near-term. Our credit ratings are also an important part of maintaining our liquidity. Any downgrade in credit ratings could potentially increase borrowing costs to even higher levels, impact the ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on its severity, substantially limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain significant contracts. In December 2008, our debt ratings were affirmed by Standards and Poors (“S&P”); however, our outlook was changed from “stable” to “negative.” In January 2009, Fitch, Inc. (“Fitch”) affirmed our debt ratings; however, our outlook was also changed from “stable” to “negative.” Balance Sheet Risk Profile. Two important changes in the underlying structure of our balance sheet impacted our asset/liability risk profile during 2008. First, as the balance sheet has declined in size, it has increasingly been funded with a higher percentage of variable rate liabilities, and the average life of these liabilities has declined. Second, both our Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services’ real estate secured receivables are remaining on our balance sheet longer than originally forecast. Reduced mortgage prepayment rates have had the effect of extending the projected average life of these loan portfolios. As a result, both net interest income at risk and asset portfolio valuations have increasingly become exposed to rising interest rates as the average life of our liability portfolios has declined while the average life of our asset portfolios has extended. We expect these trends to continue in the near-term and will execute additional risk reduction strategies in 2009 to offset the effects of this shifting risk profile. In the event we are not successful in fully mitigating these risks and interest rates rise significantly, net interest income, and consequently, net income or loss, would be negatively affected. Basel II Implementation. HSBC North America is required to adopt Basel II provisions no later than April 1, 2011. While Basel II does not apply to HSBC Finance, as a subsidiary of HBSC North America we will be required to meet the risk-based capital requirements of Basel II as if we were subject to its provisions. Absent a restructuring of the legal organizational structure of the North America operations, this is likely to require additional regulatory capital to be maintained by HSBC Finance. The current volatile market conditions have increased the risk that the capital requirements of Basel II will be increased prior to the implementation by HBSC North America. This may require a further increase in our capital requirements as well as changes in our funding mix, resulting in lower net income or continued shrinking of the balance sheet. HSBC has demonstrated its support through significant capital contributions in the last two years. HSBC is committed to and has the capacity to fund the needs of the business (under most foreseeable circumstances) but has never been a guarantor of the debt. In the absence of HSBC support, 16 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation our credit ratings would be downgraded and our cost of funding our operations would rise substantially, negatively impacting net interest income and net income or loss. Federal and state regulation. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. Specifically, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the mortgage lending industry through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, including tax refund anticipation loans, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of products we can offer and, ultimately lowering our net income. There is significant renewed focus on loss mitigation activity and foreclosure activity. Although we believe our loan modification programs are most appropriate and responsive to our customers’ needs, we cannot anticipate the response by national regulatory agencies and certain legislators and if changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result. On December 18, 2008, the Federal Reserve Board together with the Office of Thrift Supervision and the National Credit Union Association issued a final Unfair and Deceptive Acts or Practices rule (“UDAP Rule”) which will be effective on July 1, 2010. At such time, the resulting effect of the UDAP Rule will be to, among other things, restrict the ability of applying interest rate increases on new and existing credit card balances, require changes to deferred interest plans, prescribe the manner in which payments may be applied to amounts due and penalty rates that may be charged on past due balances, and set permissible fees. We are already in compliance with some of its provisions. We currently believe implementation of the UDAP Rule will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We anticipate increased and ongoing consumer protection activity at the Federal level involving consumer loans and products. For example, on January 6, 2009 legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate that, if enacted as written, would impair our ability to collect the balance of mortgage loans if a borrower seeks relief to repay debts under a Chapter 13 bankruptcy plan. The “Helping Families Save Their Homes in Bankruptcy Act of 2009” (the “Act”) would provide bankruptcy courts with the authority to reduce the principal amount due under a mortgage loan; prohibit, reduce or delay interest rate adjustments; extend the maturity of loans to 40 years; and establish a fixed interest rate, plus a reasonable premium for risk, as determined by the Court. The Act also provides that if any violation of a Federal or state consumer protection law is found to have occurred with respect to any consumer debt, the entire claim for the debt in a Chapter 13 proceeding would not be permitted. The Act also contains provisions that would expand eligibility for Chapter 13 protections for borrowers whose mortgage debt exceeds the value of their home and by eliminating other conditions to such petitions. We are also seeing increased consumer protection activity at the state legislature level, including the introduction of legislation regarding foreclosure moratoriums. In the event we are required to delay foreclosure proceedings in numerous states and for substantial lengths of time, there may be a negative impact to our revenues and an increase in customer delinquency levels. Substantial mandatory delays may increase costs in servicing the mortgage loans by requiring more modifications or re-ages and generally increasing the length of time spent on account management. There is also a potential risk that properties will depreciate in value even further during a moratorium which would ultimately increase our losses. It is likely that some form of bankruptcy reform will be enacted and that the final law will have a negative effect upon our results, but it is impossible to assess the ultimate impact until its provisions are finalized. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings. HSBC Finance Corporation or one of our subsidiaries is named as a defendant in various legal actions, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. These or other future actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, adverse to us which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational harm. We anticipate that there will be increased litigation resulting from the mortgage market downturn and general economic downturn as borrowers allege they obtained unaffordable loans or loans with terms that were unsuitable for that borrower. Operational risks. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other recordkeeping systems and management controls fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. HSBC 17 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation North America will continue the implementation of several high priority systems improvements and enhancements in 2009, each of which may present increased or additional operational risk that may not be known until their implementation is complete. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include: computer viruses or electrical or telecommunication outages; natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes; events arising from local or regional politics including terrorist acts; unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems; or global pandemics which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability by us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are likely to occur from time to time. In recent years, instances of identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Use of the internet for these purposes has also increased. Such acts can have the following possible impacts: threaten the assets of our customers: negatively impact customer credit ratings; impact customers’ ability to repay loan balances; increase costs for us to respond to such threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure maximum security of data; or damage our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into its systems and databases. In addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include: raising the minimum payment on credit card accounts; determinations to acquire or sell credit card, real estate secured or other receivables; selling all new private label receivable originations; changes to our customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices; increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or outsourcing of various operations. Risk Management. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques and prepare contingency plans in anticipation of developments, those techniques and plans and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage risks facing us is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. Management Projections. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, including goodwill and intangibles among other items. In particular, loan loss reserve estimates are influenced by factors outside our control. Due to the unprecedented and sudden 18 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation decrease in performance of our loan portfolios over the past couple of years, judgment has become a more significant factor in the estimation of inherent probable losses in the portfolios as a component of HSBC Finance Corporation’s models for estimating inherent probable credit losses. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency and the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in the historical model, unexpected additional losses could result. Another example in which management judgment is significant is in the evaluation of the recognition of deferred tax assets and in the determination of whether there is a need for a valuation allowance. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences related to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and for tax credits and state net operating losses. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for recoverability using a consistent approach based on available evidence, including historical financial performance, projections of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and any carryback availability. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC necessary as part of such plans and strategies. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. Included in our forecasts are assumptions regarding our estimate of future expected credit losses. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. Based on our forecasts of future taxable income, which include assumptions about the depth and severity of further home price depreciation and the U.S. recession, including unemployment levels and their related impact on credit losses, we currently anticipate that it is more likely than not that our results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to allow us to realize substantially all of our deferred tax assets. However, if future events differ from our current forecasts, including management assumptions about the depth and severity of further home price depreciation and the U.S. recession and unemployment levels, a valuation allowance may need to be established, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. See Note 17, “Income Taxes,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred tax assets. Changes in accounting standards. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. Employee Retention. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our business, including the credit risk analysis, underwriting, servicing, collection, sales and executive management, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The significant losses recognized by the Company, reduction of the size and scope of operations and the expectation of continued weakness in the general economy, particularly in our historic market segments, could raise concerns about key employees’ compensation and promotional opportunities. The current weakness in the employment market and in financial services, mitigates the risk of employee turnover to some extent. However, if key personnel were to leave HSBC Finance Corporation and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable in HSBC to fill 19 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation these roles, our ability to manage through the difficult economy and transformational changes may be hindered or impaired. Reputational Risk. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, adequacy of anti-money laundering processes, privacy issues, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in products offered and general company performance. The failure to address these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Pension Risk. Effective January 1, 2005, HSBC Finance Corporation’s previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Bank USA’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. We are responsible for providing approximately 40% of the financial support required by the plan. In 2008, the plan had allocated assets between three primary strategies: domestic equities, international equities and fixed income. During this period, domestic and international equity indices declined between 30% and 45% while interest rates also declined. The combination of negative equity returns and positive fixed income returns resulted in an overall reduction in plan assets of 24% in 2008. This decline, when combined with an increase in the projected benefit obligation, resulted in an under-funded status as defined by the Pension Protection Act (“PPA”). The projected benefit obligation and the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by $1.0 billion and $760 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. As this obligation relates to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of this deficit should be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North American affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the PPA. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. Further reductions in plan asset values and/or reductions in interest rates could increase the under-funded status of the plan and require us to provide additional financial support. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2008. 