Risk Factors.” Mergers and Acquisitions Since 2003, we have made a total of seven acquisitions. Most recently, we acquired Extech Instruments Corporation (“Extech”) in November 2007, Cedip Infrared Systems (“Cedip”) in January 2008, and Ifara Tecnologias, S.L. (“Ifara”) in April 2008. Extech, now part of our Thermography division, has broadened our distribution channels, particularly into catalog, internet and retail, all of which are increasingly important for our Thermography strategy. The Cedip acquisition added significantly to our product portfolio, particularly in advanced technical cameras sold through Thermography and stabilized gimbaled systems sold primarily through Government Systems while broadening distribution, particularly in Asia. The Ifara acquisition provided us with in-house access to software and middleware solutions including video analytics, networking and multi-sensor integration to support the growing needs of our customers for more integrated solutions. We are selective in our acquisition strategy, seeking to make acquisitions that are strategically important and generally add to our technology, distribution network or product portfolio. We are continuously evaluating opportunities for additional acquisitions, but cannot predict the timing, size or nature of any future activity. Technology and Core Competencies We use our expertise in product design, infrared imagers, optics, lasers, image processing, systems integration and other technologies, to develop and produce sophisticated thermal and multi-sensor imaging systems. We integrate the following capabilities and disciplines into our manufacturing processes: System Design We have developed extensive competencies in the design and integration of numerous capabilities and payloads into integrated systems or sub-systems. Competencies such as stabilization, packaging and systems integration allow us to effectively combine a wide variety of technologies and payloads to design and manufacture complex systems to suit our customers’ needs. Radiometry Our ability to produce thermal imaging systems that can accurately measure temperature is critical in many of our Thermography markets. We have demonstrated know-how in designing and producing systems that can measure temperature to within very precise tolerances while maintaining accuracy and stability over time and over a wide range of ambient temperatures. We believe our skills in this area, known as radiometry, offer an important competitive advantage over many of our competitors. Mechanical Engineering Our design and production of thermal imaging systems involves highly sophisticated mechanical engineering techniques, particularly in the design and assembly of the supporting structures for system components such as detector arrays, coolers, scanners and optics. We also have expertise in designing stabilized assemblies used in our gimbal mounted products utilizing electro-mechanical control, gyroscopes and electronic stabilization, and specialized control mechanisms. 7 Table of Contents Infrared Detector Design and Manufacturing We design and manufacture both cooled and uncooled infrared detector arrays, in high volumes and at low cost. We believe our uncooled Vanadium Oxide microbolometers and cooled detectors using Indium Antimonide and Indium Gallium Arsenide are among the highest performing infrared detectors of their type available in the world. Internal design and manufacturing of detectors provides significant cost and engineering advantages compared with the use of third-party detectors. Integrated Circuits and Electronic Design We have significant electronic design capabilities across several specialized areas, including readout integrated circuit design, signal processing, image processing and electronics integration. Our design expertise lies in the areas of reliability, low power consumption and extreme environmental survivability. Software Development Software is an increasingly important aspect of our overall engineering and design activity. Networking capability, video analytics and other software and middleware applications are growing in importance. Our systems are also able to interface with many standard external software protocols. Optical Design, Fabrication and Coating We design and manufacture sophisticated infrared optics using materials such as silicon and germanium that are required to produce a thermal imaging system. This capability allows us to rapidly develop optics optimized for use with our cameras and avoid costs and delays associated with reliance on third-party optics suppliers. We also have the ability to apply custom vapor deposited coatings to improve the transmission of the unique lens materials that are used in infrared systems. Micro-Coolers We manufacture the industry’s smallest, lightest and lowest power micro-coolers for use in cooling infrared detectors at our facility in North Billerica, Massachusetts. Our coolers are especially effective in hand-held applications, where light weight and long battery life are essential. Lasers and Laser Components Many of our more sophisticated systems are increasingly being offered with various types of laser payloads, including laser pointers, illuminators, rangefinders and designators. We design purpose-built laser rangefinders and designators for inclusion in some of our gimbaled systems at our facility in Orlando, Florida, and manufacture laser designators, rangefinders and related components at our facility in Bozeman, Montana. Research and development expenses were $90.0 million in 2008, $72.5 million in 2007 and $60.6 million in 2006. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenses in the future to provide a continuing flow of innovative and high quality products to maintain and enhance our competitive position in each of our business segments. Proprietary Rights We have numerous patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property that are important for our success. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and 8 Table of Contents contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. While we believe that our historical success has been primarily a function of other competitive advantages such as the skill and experience of our employees, our worldwide, multi-channel sales, distribution and servicing network, our name recognition and quality products, our intellectual property provides important competitive advantages as well, and we therefore endeavor to protect our intellectual property from misappropriation. We cannot, however, be certain or give any assurance that we can maintain our competitive advantage in the thermal imaging industry or that competitors will not develop similar or superior capabilities. Customers The primary customers for our products vary substantially by division. Typical Thermography customers include research and development facilities, universities, industrial companies, utility companies, building inspectors, electrical contractors, thermography consultants, damage restoration contractors and numerous commercial enterprises. Commercial Vision Systems serves customers such as OEMs, automotive suppliers, aircraft manufacturers and dealers, marine electronics dealers, major integrators of security systems and news gathering agencies. Government Systems customers generally consist of domestic and foreign government agencies, including military, paramilitary and police forces. Our customers in each segment are located around the world and are serviced by a global distribution and service organization. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to United States and foreign government agencies and our business will continue to be substantially dependent upon such sales. Aggregate sales to United States government agencies accounted for 41 percent of our revenue in 2008, 39 percent of our revenue in 2007 and 32 percent in 2006. Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for 38 percent of revenue in 2008, 39 percent in 2007 and 45 percent in 2006. We expect revenue outside the United States to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. Further information about geographic operations and customers appears in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Sales and Distribution We believe our sales and distribution organization is among the largest in the industry and effectively covers the world with a combination of direct sales, independent representatives and distributors, dealers, application engineers, and service and training centers. Our sales personnel, including third-party distributors, undergo a comprehensive training program on each product’s technical specifications, functions and applications. We also continuously update our training programs to incorporate technological and competitive shifts and changes. We sell in many distinct markets and have established specific sales channels for each market. We sell our Thermography products worldwide through a direct sales staff and a network of distributors and representatives. Our Thermography business continues to expand distribution, particularly in Asia and Latin America. At the end of 2008, our Thermography division employed over 170 direct sales personnel and utilized approximately 500 distributors. In November 2007, we acquired Extech Instruments Corporation, a distributor of hand-held test equipment. We are utilizing its distribution channels, particularly into catalogs and retailers to expand our distribution in the United States. In January 2008, we acquired Cedip Infrared Systems which has provided additional distribution capability, particularly in international markets. Commercial Vision Systems is also actively expanding its distribution network by hiring additional direct sales personnel and expanding third-party distribution networks in specific markets. At the end of 2008, our Commercial Vision Systems sales organization employed approximately 70 direct sales personnel as well as a worldwide network of dealers across many distinct markets. In certain markets CVS has chosen to supply camera cores on an OEM basis to companies with well established distribution networks. Examples include firefighting, where we supply cores to Mine Safety Appliances, and automotive, where we are partnered with Autoliv. 9 Table of Contents Our Government Systems business has a direct sales staff of approximately 100 individuals and a network of independent representatives and distributors covering major government markets worldwide. Included in this total are technical and customer support staff in the United States and Europe who provide application development, technical training and operational assistance to direct and indirect sales personnel as well as to customers. Marketing With our further expansion into the low cost segment of the commercial markets, we have developed greater competencies in market research, electronic marketing, marketing communications and business development. Our ability to identify new markets, adapt our product solutions to meet unique market needs, quickly develop marketing communications that highlight these unique features, and leverage existing and new distribution channels to develop incremental business are important aspects of our marketing and communications efforts. We focus our product marketing activities on internet promotion, advertising, direct mail, press tours, technical articles for publications and participation in most major trade shows in our industry. These activities give us the opportunity to educate potential customers about the key features and attributes of our products and how they may be used to address specific customer needs. Customer Service We maintain service facilities at our factories in Wilsonville, Oregon; North Billerica, Massachusetts; Goleta, California; Danderyd, Sweden; and Croissy-Beauborg, France; and at our locations in West Malling, United Kingdom; Antwerp, Belgium; Frankfurt, Germany; Toronto, Canada; Paris, France; Milan, Italy; Hong Kong; Dubai, United Arab Emirates; Shanghai, China; Tokyo, Japan; Sao Paulo, Brazil; and Melbourne, Australia. Each of our service facilities has the capability to perform the complex calibrations required to service commercial thermal imaging systems. We also maintain field service capabilities in five additional foreign locations under the direction of our independent representatives or distributors. Manufacturing We manufacture many of the critical components for our products, including infrared detectors, gimbals, optics and coatings, laser sub-systems and micro-coolers, and develop much of the necessary software and middleware for our systems. This vertical integration minimizes lead times, facilitates prompt delivery of our products, controls costs and ensures that these components satisfy our quality standards. We purchase other parts pre-assembled, including certain detectors, certain coolers and optics, circuit boards, cables and wire harnesses. These components are then assembled into finished systems and tested at one of our primary production facilities located in Wilsonville, Oregon; North Billerica, Massachusetts; Goleta, California; Danderyd, Sweden; Croissy-Beauborg, France; Tallinn, Estonia; and Bozeman, Montana. Our manufacturing operations are, from time to time, audited by certain OEM customers, which include several major aircraft manufacturers, and have been certified as meeting their quality standards. Our facilities in Wilsonville, North Billerica, Goleta, Danderyd, West Malling, Croissy-Beauborg, Tallinn and Bozeman are ISO 9001:2000 certified. Backlog At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had a total order backlog of $663 million and $393 million, respectively. Government Systems typically has the highest backlog of our divisions relative to revenue and in absolute terms. At December 31, 2008, Government Systems backlog totaled $552 million, compared with $305 million at December 31, 2007 with the increase primarily due to the growth of the program business. Commercial Vision Systems carries backlog in certain markets, but is less backlog dependent than Government 10 Table of Contents Systems. Commercial Vision Systems backlog at year end 2008 was $91 million, compared with $68 million a year earlier. Thermography is our least backlog intensive business, and typically ships products within a few weeks of receipt of orders. At December 31, 2008, Thermography backlog was $20 million, unchanged from last year end. Backlog is defined as orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and delivery is expected within twelve months. Competition Competition in the market for thermal imaging equipment is significant. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Our competitors are different in each market segment. In the Thermography market, principal competitors include Fluke (a division of Danaher Corporation) and NEC San-Ei. Competitors in Commercial Vision Systems vary market by market, but include L-3 Communications, ULIS, Axsys Technologies, ICx Technologies and numerous smaller companies. In the Government Systems market, our competitors include Raytheon Corporation, BAE Systems, L-3 Communications, DRS Corporation (a Finmecanica Company), Lockheed Martin Corporation, El-Op, Sagem, Tamam and Thales. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had 1,943 employees of which 1,252 were in the United States and 691 were outside of the United States. We have generally been successful in attracting highly skilled technical, marketing and management personnel to date. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a union or other bargaining group. Employees in Sweden are represented by unions whose contracts are subject to periodic renegotiations. We believe our relationships with our employees and unions are good. Available Information Our internet website address is www.flir.com. This Report, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. In addition, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that we now view as minor could become more significant. If we are unable to adequately respond to these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective. General economic conditions and the current global financial crisis may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of capital investment and consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration. Economic factors that could adversely influence demand for the Company’s products include uncertainty about current global economic conditions leading to reduced 11 Table of Contents levels of investment, changes in government spending priorities, the size and availability of government budgets, customers’ and suppliers’ access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting government, industrial or consumer spending behavior. The recent distress in the financial markets has resulted in reduced liquidity and a tightening of credit markets. As a result of these conditions, the Company could experience several potential adverse effects, including the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products, the insolvency of customers resulting in reduced sales and bad debts, and the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product development and production delays. We invest our cash and cash equivalents in instruments that may be exposed to credit market distress, including the failure of financial institutions and market illiquidity. Our primary markets are volatile and unpredictable Our business depends on the demand for our thermal imaging systems in a variety of commercial, industrial and government markets. In the past, the demand for our products in these markets has fluctuated due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally; • the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders; • variations in the volume of orders for a particular product or product line in a particular quarter; • the size and timing of new contract awards; • the timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; and • the timing of orders and shipments within a given fiscal quarter, as a significant portion of our sales are frequently concentrated in the last week or days of a fiscal quarter. Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results, particularly the increase in sales we generally experience every year in the fourth quarter, result from: • the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States government and certain foreign governments; • the frequent requirement of international customers to take delivery of equipment prior to January due to funding considerations; and • the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. We depend on the United States government for a material portion of our business and changes in government spending could adversely affect our business We derive significant revenue from contracts or subcontracts with United States government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies would have an adverse effect on our business. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 41 percent, 39 percent and 32 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from contracts with the United States government and its agencies. Recently, a higher percentage of our contracts have been larger Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts. The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriation process, which is beyond our control. In addition, at its discretion, the United States government may change its spending priorities and/or terminate, reduce or modify contracts. As a United States government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations Government contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements and are subject to routine audits and investigations by United States government agencies. If we fail to comply with these 12 Table of Contents rules and regulations, the results could include: reductions in the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the assessment of penalties and fines; and/or suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or permanently. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete, our ability to introduce new or enhanced products and enter into new markets The thermal imaging industry is characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our ability to develop new products and technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements, reduce costs and otherwise retain or enhance our competitive position in existing and new markets will be an important factor in our future results from operations. We will continue to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to improve our manufacturing capability, reduce costs, and develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot be certain that our new products and technologies will be successful or that customers will accept any of our new products. We must successfully manage an increasingly complex global organization As the Company has grown, the size and scope of the Company’s worldwide operations have also increased substantially. Worldwide operations have grown to accommodate the design, manufacture and marketing of numerous product lines across each of our three divisions in a vertically integrated manufacturing environment. Significant management time and effort is required to effectively manage the increased complexity of the business. Our failure to successfully manage the global operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we manufacture our products at various facilities as described in Item 2. Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power outage, earthquake, fire or other natural disaster, labor or political unrest, could prevent us from supplying products to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks from international sales and business activities We market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, international sales accounted for 38 percent, 39 percent and 45 percent, respectively, of our total revenue. We also manufacture certain products in Europe. Our international business activities are subject to a number of risks, including: • the imposition of and changes to governmental controls; • restrictions on the export of critical technology; • trade restrictions; • difficulty in collecting receivables; • inadequate protection of intellectual property; • labor union activities; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and • political and economic instability. No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Operating margins may be negatively impacted by a downturn in sales Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed, particularly in the short term. Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company. In addition, to enable us to promptly fill orders, we maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials. As a result, we commit to considerable costs in advance of anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. Competition in the markets for thermal imaging equipment is intense and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our business Competition in the markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors as well as the potential for increased competition from new competitors require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on sole source and limited source suppliers of components for our products exposes us to risks that could result in delays in satisfying customer demand, increased costs and loss of revenue We currently rely on a number of sole source and limited source suppliers to provide certain key components for our products. We have increased our internal sources of supply for certain critical components, in particular, cooled and uncooled infrared detectors, optics and optical coatings, and laser components, but we rely on sole or limited source third-party suppliers for other key components including laser designators and rangefinders, certain machined parts, optics, motors and electronic components. Many of these suppliers are small and we are often one of their most important customers. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in the event that we are unable to source certain of these components on a timely basis or if such components are defective or they do not otherwise meet our performance standards. Based on past experience, we expect to occasionally receive late deliveries or to experience inadequate supplies of certain components. If critical components provided by any significant supplier become unavailable, our manufacturing operations could be disrupted. Unless we have sufficient lead-time and are otherwise able to identify and qualify acceptable replacement components or redesign our products with different components, we might not be able to obtain necessary components on a timely basis or at acceptable prices. Any extended interruption in the supply of sole or limited source components could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical, sales and other personnel Our future success depends in part on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and other personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to 14 Table of Contents attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future. We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully integrate recent or future acquisitions into our operations, thereby disrupting our business and harming our financial condition and results of operations We have made several acquisitions of various sizes during our history, including seven in the past six years. Our most recent acquisitions include Cedip Infrared Systems and Ifara Tecnologias, S. L. in 2008 and Extech Instruments Corporation in 2007. The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies is often difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks. For example, we could lose key personnel from companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs, lose major sources of revenue, fail to integrate critical technologies, suffer business disruptions, fail to capture anticipated synergies, fail to establish satisfactory internal controls, or incur unanticipated liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue. We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and it is possible that we will make additional acquisitions in the future. Such acquisitions may vary in size and complexity. Any future acquisitions are subject to the risks described above. Furthermore, we might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions. Additional debt may negatively impact our results and increase our financial risk, and the issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our then existing shareholders’ ownership. No assurance can be given that we will realize anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions, or that any such acquisition or investment will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience impairment in the value of our tangible and intangible assets Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets. As of December 31, 2008, our intangible assets, including goodwill, totaled $281.9 million and represented 23 percent of our total assets. Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired. We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events. To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future. In addition, certain of our tangible assets such as inventory and machinery and equipment may experience impairment in their value as a result of such events as the introduction of new products, changes in technology or changes in customer demand patterns. We depreciate our machinery and equipment at levels we believe are adequate; however, there can be no assurance that there will not be a future impairment that may have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks from currency fluctuations Historically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales or costs incurred are denominated have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars. With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive. Our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our business Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we 15 Table of Contents rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold United States patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, and we are actively pursuing additional patents, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors or that measures taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily prevent our competitors from entering the thermal imaging industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that our competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours. Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We cannot be sure that we will not be the subject of patent or other litigation in the future or that we will not assert claims in litigation to protect our intellectual property. Lawsuits defending or prosecuting intellectual property claims and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding to which we may be a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in the loss of intellectual property rights we claim or impact our competitive position. Additionally, an adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If such licenses are not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments Export licenses are required from United States government agencies under the Export Administration Act, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 for export of many of our products. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these licenses. Recently, heightened government scrutiny of export licenses for products in our markets has resulted in lengthened review periods for our license applications. Failure to obtain or delays in obtaining these licenses would prevent or delay us from selling our products outside the United States and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial damage or warranty claims We include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. If any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses including expenses arising from product liability and warranty claims, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it is adequate or will remain available on acceptable terms. We have indebtedness as a result of the sale of our convertible notes and are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our credit facility which may limit our operational and financial flexibility In June 2003, we issued $210 million of 3.0 percent senior convertible notes due in 2023 in a private offering pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, of which as of December 31, 2008, approximately $191.4 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes were outstanding. On February 5, 2009, we commenced an exchange offer for any and all of the outstanding convertible notes. The offer was made pursuant to an Offer to Exchange and related documents, each dated February 5, 2009, and the completion of the 16 Table of Contents offer is subject to conditions described in the offer documents. Holders who elect to exchange their notes in this offer and whose notes are accepted for exchange by us will receive 90.1224 shares of our common stock and a cash payment of $20 per $1,000 principal amount of notes. The offer is scheduled to expire on March 9, 2009 unless extended by us. We are making this offer to reduce the amount of our outstanding debt and interest expense. Additionally, we have a $300 million revolving credit agreement. The credit agreement contains financial covenants that require the maintenance of certain leverage ratios, in addition to minimum levels of EBITDA and consolidated net worth, a maximum level of capital expenditures and, commencing December 31, 2009, a minimum level of liquidity comprised of cash and undrawn/unutilized availability under the credit agreement. The credit agreement is collateralized by substantially all assets of the Company. As of December 31, 2008, there were no amounts borrowed and outstanding under the credit agreement. The credit agreement expires on October 6, 2011. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in a default under the credit agreement. In the event of any such default, the lenders under our credit facility could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees under the facility to be due and immediately payable. If we are unable to repay any of this debt when due, the lenders under our credit facility could foreclose on our assets pledged to them as security. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and/or • the repatriation of earnings from outside the United States for which we have not previously provided for United States taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if any assessments resulting from the examination of our income tax returns by the IRS or other taxing authorities are not resolved in our favor. Oregon law, our charter documents and our shareholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would benefit our shareholders Other companies may seek to acquire or merge with us. An acquisition or merger of our Company could result in benefits to our shareholders, including an increase in the value of our common stock. Some provisions 17 Table of Contents of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including our ability to issue preferred stock without further action by our shareholders, as well as provisions of Oregon law and our shareholder rights plan, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 