Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC, could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that may face HSBC Finance Corporation. General business, economic, political and market conditions. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic, market and political conditions in the United States and abroad. Given the concentration of our business activities in the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the United States economy. For example in a poor economic environment there is greater likelihood that more of our customers or counterparties could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to us, which, in turn, could result in higher levels of provision for credit losses and charge-offs which would adversely affect our earnings. General business, economic and market conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, recession, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations, market value of consumer owned real estate throughout the United States, consumer perception as to the availability of credit and 18 HSBC Finance Corporation the ease of filing of bankruptcy. In 2007, a significant slow down in the appreciation of property values was experienced through much of the United States. Certain markets experienced depreciation in property values, and this appears to be a growing trend. We believe that the slowdown in the housing market will be deeper in terms of its impact on housing prices and the duration will extend at least through 2008. Continued or expanded slowing of appreciation or increased depreciation can be expected to result in higher delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. In addition, certain changes to the conditions described above could diminish demand for our products and services, or increase the cost to provide such products or services. Mortgage lenders have tightened lending standards and eliminated many “affordability” products that generally carry higher risk, such as interest-only and introductory “teaser-rate” ARM loans. These actions have impacted borrowers’ abilities to refinance existing mortgage loans. The ability to refinance and extract equity from their homes is no longer an option to many of our customers. This impacts both credit performance and run-off rates and has resulted in rising delinquency rates for real estate secured loans in our portfolio. This is also expected to continue. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we have also seen unemployment rates rise in the same markets which are experiencing the greatest home value depreciation as well as continuing marked increases in gasoline and heating costs. Additionally, an increasing inventory of homes for sale combined with declining property values in many markets is resulting in increased loss severity on homes that are foreclosed and remarketed and is impacting the desire of some of our customers to continue to pay on the loan. Economy.com has recently indicated a number of U.S. market sectors may already be in a recession. If a widespread recessionary economy develops, additional losses are likely. If a severe recession ensues, additional losses are likely to be significant. It may be anticipated that market conditions may cause a contagion effect in other types of consumer loans, such as credit card and auto loans. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, and actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to such acts or threats, as well as changes in political conditions could affect business and economic conditions in the United States and consequently, our earnings. Adjustable rate mortgages. Our Mortgage Services business acquired a significant number of ARM loans that were originated in a period of unusually low interest rates. A substantial majority of these loans bore a fixed rate for the first two or three years of the loan, followed by annual interest and payment rate resets. As interest rates have fluctuated since June 2004, many of our customers holding ARMs in the Mortgage Services portfolio may face monthly payment increases following their first interest rate adjustment date. The decreased availability of refinancing alternatives has impacted the run-off that typically occurs as an ARM nears its first rate reset. Interest rate adjustments on first mortgages may also have a direct impact on a borrower’s ability to repay any underlying second lien mortgage loan on a property. Similarly, as interest-only mortgage loans leave the interest-only payment period, the ability of borrowers to make the increased payments may be impacted. The Mortgage Services portfolio also contains a significant number of second lien loans that are subordinated to an ARM held by a third party as well as interest-only loans. In 2008, approximately $3.7 billion of domestic ARM loans will have their initial payment rate reset based on the original contracted reset date. Additionally, in 2008, we anticipate approximately $1.3 billion of ARM loans modified under a new modification program introduced in October 2006, which are excluded from the reset numbers above, will experience their first reset. Continued inability to refinance could lead to an increase in delinquency, charge-off and losses. Federal and state regulation. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. Specifically, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to control alleged “predatory” or discriminatory lending practices and to address perceived problems with the mortgage lending industry through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, including non-traditional mortgage products or tax refund anticipation loans, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of consumer loan products we can offer. With a changing political climate in Washington, D.C, the highly publicized difficulties in the mortgage markets and an upcoming election year, we anticipate increased consumer protection activity at the Federal level. In addition, new risk-based capital guidelines and reporting instructions, including changes in response to the Basel II Capital Accords could require a significant increase in our capital requirements or changes 19 HSBC Finance Corporation in our funding mix, resulting in lower net income. We cannot determine whether such legislative or regulatory initiatives will be instituted or predict the impact such initiatives would have on our results. Liquidity. Our liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses, grow and be profitable. A compromise to our liquidity could therefore have a negative effect on our financial results. In 2007, the capital markets were severely disrupted and the markets continue to be highly risk averse and reactionary. Traditional providers of credit to the subprime market are either reducing their exposure to this asset class or markedly tightening the credit standards necessary to receive financing for subprime assets. This has raised our cost of funds. Potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include diminished access to capital markets, unforeseen cash or capital requirements, an inability to sell assets or execute secured financing transactions due to reduced investor appetite for non-prime assets and an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity, as a reduction in our credit ratings would also negatively affect our liquidity. A credit ratings downgrade could potentially increase borrowing costs, and depending on its severity, limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain contracts material to us. Management Projections. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to future litigation, and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. In particular, loan loss reserve estimates are influenced by factors outside our control. HSBC Finance Corporation’s statistical model for estimating inherent probable credit losses in its loan portfolio is based upon historical data. As the recent downturn in the performance of the mortgage portfolio was sudden, dramatic and unprecedented, the statistical, historical models utilized by HSBC Finance Corporation have not fully captured inherent probable risk. As a result, judgment has become a more significant component of the estimation of inherent probable losses in the portfolio. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency and the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in the historical model, unexpected additional losses could result. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings. HSBC Finance Corporation or one of our subsidiaries is named as a defendant in various legal actions, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. These or other future actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, adverse to us which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational harm. We anticipate that there will be increased litigation resulting from the mortgage market downturn as borrowers allege they obtained unaffordable loans or loans with terms that were unsuitable for that borrower. Operational risks. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability by us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. 20 HSBC Finance Corporation In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are likely to occur from time to time, and there is no assurance that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. In addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time, such as determinations to sell receivables from our domestic private label portfolio, structuring all new collateralized funding transactions as secured financings, or changes to our customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Risk Management. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage risks facing us is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. Changes in accounting standards. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. Competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment and while there has been significant consolidation in the financial services industry in 2007 and continuing into 2008, as the market stabilizes we expect competitive conditions to again intensify as the remaining players in the financial services industry will be larger, better-capitalized and more geographically-diverse companies. This will include lenders with access to government sponsored organizations that are capable of offering a wider array of consumer financial products and services at competitive prices. In addition, the traditional segregation of the financial services industry into prime and non-prime segments has eroded and in the future is expected to continue to do so, further increasing competition for our core customer base. Such competition may impact the terms, rates, costs and/or profits historically included in the loan products we offer or purchase. There can be no assurance that the significant and increasing competition in the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations. Acquisition Integration. We have in the past and may in the future seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses or loan portfolios, such as our acquisitions of Metris Companies, Inc. (“Metris”) in 2005 and Solstice Capital Group Inc. and the mortgage portfolio of Champion Mortgage in 2006. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: the total cost of integration; anticipated cross-sell opportunities; the time required to complete the integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; or the overall performance of the combined entity. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, sometimes including combining relevant accounting and data processing systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with clients, suppliers and other business partners, as well as with employees. 21 HSBC Finance Corporation There is no assurance that any business or portfolio in the future will be successfully integrated and will result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully any future acquisitions, there is the risk our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Employee Retention. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees to support the various functions of our business, including the credit risk analysis, underwriting, servicing, collection and sales, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Reputational Risk. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, adequacy of anti-money laundering processes, privacy issues, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in products offered and general company performance. The failure to address these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2007. 