Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC, could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that may face HSBC Finance Corporation. General business, economic, political and market conditions. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic, market and political conditions in the United States and abroad. Given the concentration of our business activities in the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the United States economy. For example in a poor economic environment there is greater likelihood that more of our customers or counterparties could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to us, which, in turn, could result in higher level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, all of which would adversely affect our earnings. General business, economic and market conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, recession, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations, market value of consumer owned real estate throughout the United States, consumer perception as to the availability of credit and the ease of filing of bankruptcy. In 2006, certain markets experienced a significant slow down in the appreciation of property values and in other markets, property values depreciated. While there have been some indications that lead us to believe the slow down may be moderating, continued or expanded slowing of appreciation or increased depreciation could be expected to result in higher delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. In addition, certain changes to the conditions described above could diminish demand for our products and services, or increase the cost to provide such products or services. Political conditions also can impact our earnings. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, as well as actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to such acts or threats, could affect business and economic conditions in the United States. Federal and state regulation. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. Specifically, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to control alleged “predatory” or discriminatory lending practices through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders operation in consumer lending markets, including non-traditional mortgage products or tax refund anticipation loans, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of consumer loan products we can offer. With a changing political climate in Washington, D.C., we anticipate increased consumer protection activity at the Federal level. In addition, new risk-based capital guidelines and reporting instructions, including changes in response to Basel II Capital Accords could require a significant increase in our capital requirements or changes in our funding mix, resulting in lower net income. We cannot determine whether such legislative or regulatory initiatives will be instituted or predict the impact of such initiatives would have on our results. Changes in accounting standards. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial results and condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. Competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment and we expect competitive conditions to continue to intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically-diverse companies, including lenders with access to government sponsored organizations for our consumer segment, that are capable of offering a wider array of consumer financial 17 HSBC Finance Corporation products and services at competitive prices. In addition, the traditional segregation of the financial services industry into prime and non-prime segments has eroded and in the future is expected to continue to do so, further increasing competition for our core customer base. Such competition may impact the terms, rates, costs and/or profits historically included in the loan products we offer or purchase. There can be no assurance that the significant and increasing competition in the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations. Management Projections. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to future litigation, and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. In particular, loan loss reserve estimates are judgmental and are influenced by factors outside our control. As a result, estimates could change as economic conditions change. If our management’s determined values for such items turn out to be substantially inaccurate, we may experience unexpected losses which could be material. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings. HSBC Finance Corporation or one of our subsidiaries is named as a defendant in various legal actions, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. These or other future actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, adverse to us which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational harm. Operational risks. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability by us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are likely to occur from time to time, and there is no assurance that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. In addition there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time, such as determinations to sell receivables from our domestic private label portfolio, structuring all new collateralized funding transactions as secured financings, or changes to our customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices could materially impact our performance and results. Liquidity. Our liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses, grow and be profitable. A compromise to our liquidity could therefore have a negative effect on us. Potential conditions that could 18 HSBC Finance Corporation negatively affect our liquidity include diminished access to capital markets, unforeseen cash or capital requirements, an inability to sell assets and an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity, as a reduction in our credit ratings would also negatively affect our liquidity. A credit ratings downgrade, could potentially increase borrowing costs, and depending on its severity, limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain contracts material to us. Acquisition Integration. We have in the past and may in the future seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses or loan portfolios, such as our acquisitions of Metris Companies, Inc. (“Metris”) in 2005 and Solstice Capital Group Inc. and the mortgage portfolio of Champion Mortgage in 2006. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: the total cost of integration; anticipated cross-sell opportunities; the time required to complete the integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; or the overall performance of the combined entity. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, sometimes including combining relevant accounting and data processing systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with clients, suppliers and other business partners, as well as with employees. There is no assurance that our most recent acquisitions or that any businesses or portfolios acquired in the future will be successfully integrated and will result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully our past and any future acquisitions, there is the risk our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risk Management. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage risks facing us is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. Employee Retention. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees to support the various functions of our business, including the credit risk analysis, underwriting, servicing, collection and sales, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Reputational Risk. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, adequacy of anti-money laundering processes, privacy issues, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in products offered and general company performance. The failure to address these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2006. 19 HSBC Finance Corporation 