Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed with or furnished to with the SEC could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. The current uncertain market and economic conditions may continue to affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic and market conditions in the United States and abroad. Given our concentration of business activities in the United States and due to the nature of our historical business as a consumer lender to generally non-conforming and non-prime customers, we are particularly exposed to any additional turmoil in the economy, housing downturns, high unemployment, tight credit conditions and reduced economic growth that have occurred over the past four years and appear likely to continue in 2012. General business, economic and market conditions that could continue to affect us include: • low consumer confidence and reduced consumer spending; • a “double dip” recession; • unemployment levels; • wage income levels and declines in wealth; • market value of residential real estate throughout the United States; • inflation; • monetary supply; • fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations; • unexpected geopolitical events; • fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; • short-term and long-term interest rates; • availability of liquidity; • tight consumer credit conditions; • higher bankruptcy filings; and • new laws, regulations or regulatory and law enforcement initiatives. In a challenging economic environment such as is currently being experienced in the United States, more of our customers are likely to, or have in fact, become delinquent on their loans or other obligations as compared to historical periods as many of our customers are experiencing reductions in cash flow available to service their debt. These delinquencies, in turn, have resulted in higher levels of provision for credit losses and charge-offs, which have adversely affected our earnings and resulted in significant losses from the third quarter of 2007 to date. The problems in the housing markets in the United States in the last five years have been exacerbated by 14 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation continued high unemployment rates. If businesses remain cautious to hire, additional losses are likely to be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards, due to decreased consumer income. Despite some indications of growth in employment and output in the latter part of 2011, the forecast for 2012 remains muted, with growth in gross domestic product for the United States well below trend for the past decades. Furthermore, public opinion about the state of the economy remains pessimistic, which affects not only production and consumption decisions, but also political, administrative, and regulatory priorities. Housing prices declined in 2011 and a large inventory of foreclosed properties exerted additional downward pressure on market values in many metropolitan areas. If housing prices continue to decline, there may be increased delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. Mortgage lenders have substantially tightened lending standards since 2007. These actions have impacted borrowers’ abilities to refinance existing mortgage loans. The ability to refinance and extract equity from their homes is no longer an option for many of our customers. This, in turn, impacted both credit performance and run-off rates and has resulted in significantly elevated delinquency rates for real estate secured loans in our portfolio. Additionally, the high levels of inventory of homes for sale combined with depressed property values in many markets has resulted in higher loss severities on homes that are foreclosed and remarketed. In the event economic conditions continue to be depressed or become further depressed and lead to a “double dip” recession, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios with a corresponding impact on our results of operations. Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, cyberattacks, human error, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business and reputation. Operational risk is inherent in virtually all of our activities. While we have established and maintain an overall risk framework that is designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well-defined independent risk management, we continue to be subject to some degree of operational risk. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions, most of which involve, in some fashion, electronic devices or electronic networks. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other recordkeeping systems and management controls fail, are subject to cyberattack that compromises electronic devices or networks, or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Also, in order to react quickly or to meet newly-implemented regulatory requirements, we may need to change or enhance systems within very tight time frames, which would increase operational risk. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems infrastructure arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include: • computer viruses, electrical, telecommunications, or other essential utility outages; • cyberattacks, which are deliberate attempts to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or impairing operational performance; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes; • events arising from local, regional or international politics, including terrorist acts; • unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems; or • absence of operating systems personnel due to global pandemics or otherwise, which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee or employees, acting alone or in concert with non-affiliated third parties, causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently 15 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation manipulates our operations or systems, including, without limitation, by means of cyberattack or denial-of-service attack. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, and may result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage or regulatory intervention, all of which may materially adversely affect us. In recent years, internet and other cyberattacks, identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Such acts can affect our business by: • threatening the assets of our customers, potentially impacting our customer’s ability to repay loan balances and negatively impacting their credit ratings; • causing us to incur remediation and other costs related to liability for customer or third parties for losses, repairs to remedy systems flaws, or incentives to customers and business partners to maintain and rebuild business relationships after the attack; • increasing our costs to respond to such threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure maximum security of data; or • damaging our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into our systems and databases. In addition, there is the risk that our operating system controls as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include: • our determining to sell residential mortgage loans and other loans; • changes to our charge-off policies or customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices; • our increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or • our outsourcing of various operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual report on Form 10-K, the existence of any “material weaknesses” in our internal control. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting may occur from time to time and we cannot assure you that we will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given future year. Our financial results and condition could be adversely affected by a failure to complete or a delay in completing the sale of our Card and Retail Services business to Capital One Financial Corporation. In August 2011, HSBC announced that through certain of its wholly owned affiliates, including HSBC Finance Corporation, it had entered into an agreement to sell the HSBC U.S. Card and Retail Services business to Capital One. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval. The sale of HSBC U.S. Card and Retail Services business to Capital One requires the separation of the Card and Retail Services business from the remaining businesses of HSBC in North America and, to a lesser extent, globally. Separation of the businesses is an extremely complex process and will result in a significant number of transitional service arrangements between HSBC entities and Capital One. While we expect to complete the transaction in the second quarter of 2012, as previously announced, the operational complexities of the separation present significant risks to our intended closing date. Any delay in the sale to Capital One would also delay realization of the financial benefits of the transaction and 16 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation would have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Further, if the sale to Capital One is not completed on or before May 10, 2012, either party may, with limited exceptions, terminate the transaction. Failure to complete the sale to Capital One would have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and capital position. Failure to complete the sale would also reflect negatively on our ability to execute on HSBC’s larger strategy, which could give rise to reputational risk and increased regulatory scrutiny. In connection with the sale to Capital One, we will enter into a significant number of transitional service arrangements with Capital One, which will continue to various dates until the separation of the Card and Retail Services business is completed. The complexities and demands of these arrangements will result in increased operational risk to us as they could divert management attention and resources from other operations, which could result in disruptions in our remaining operations. The downgrading of U.S. debt ratings and continued economic uncertainty related to U.S. markets could negatively impact our business operations and our access to capital markets. Recent concerns regarding U.S. debt and budget matters have caused uncertainty in financial markets. Although the U.S. debt limit was increased, a failure to raise the U.S. debt limit and the downgrading of U.S. debt ratings in the future could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect our ability to obtain funding on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operations of our business and our financial results and condition. Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly affect business and economic conditions and our financial results and condition. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict. Unanticipated risks may impact our results. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, market, operational, compliance, cybersecurity and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques and prepare contingency plans in anticipation of developments, those techniques and plans and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage significant risks and to respond to unanticipated developments in a timely and complete manner is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. Our reputation has a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to: • appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; • legal and regulatory requirements; • ethical issues, including alleged deceptive or unfair lending or servicing practices; • anti-money laundering and economic sanctions programs; • privacy issues; • fraud issues; • data security issues related to our customers or employees; • cybersecurity issues and cyber incidents, whether actual, threatened, or perceived; 17 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation • recordkeeping; • sales and trading practices; • the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our businesses; • negative news about us, HSBC or the financial services industry generally; • a downgrade of or negative watch warning on any of our credit ratings; and • general company performance. The failure to address, or the perception that we have failed to address, these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us or give rise to increased regulatory action, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our inability to meet funding requirements due to our balance sheet attrition or credit ratings could impact operations. Adequate liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. The pace of our balance sheet attrition has a significant impact on our liquidity and risk management processes. Properly managing these processes is critical to mitigating liquidity risk. Lower cash flow resulting from declining non-core receivable balances as well as lower cash generated from balance sheet attrition due to increased charge-offs will not provide sufficient cash to fully cover maturing debt over the next four to five years. If market pricing for receivables improves, a portion of the required funding could be generated through sales of receivable portfolios. A portion of any funding gap could be covered through the issuance of commercial paper in the primary debt markets or borrowed from one or more of our affiliates. We anticipate all future term funding will be provided by HSBC affiliates. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. As indicated by the major credit rating agencies, our credit ratings are directly dependent on the continued support of HSBC. Any downgrade in credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs, impact our ability to issue commercial paper and to sell assets, and, depending on the severity of the downgrade, require us to make cash payments or post collateral, and permit termination by counterparties of certain significant contracts. Similarly, to the extent future funding is to be provided by HSBC affiliates, the credit ratings of those affiliates will affect their borrowing costs and, as a result, the cost of funding to us. HSBC has provided capital support in the past and has indicated its commitment and capacity to fund the needs of the business in the future. The transition to Basel II and new requirements under Basel III will continue to put significant pressure on regulatory capital. HSBC North America is required to adopt Basel II provisions in accordance with current regulatory timelines. In June 2011, the U.S. regulators adopted final regulations to implement the “capital floor” provision of the so-called “Collins Amendment” of Dodd-Frank. Pursuant to these regulations, a banking organization that has formally implemented Basel II must calculate its capital requirements under Basel I and Basel II, compare the two results, and then use the lower of such ratios for purposes of determining compliance with its minimum Tier 1 capital and total risk-based capital requirements. Prior to adoption of Basel II, a banking organization is required to successfully complete a parallel run by measuring regulatory capital under both the new regulatory capital rules and the existing general risk-based rules for a period of at least four quarters. Successful completion of the parallel run period requires the approval of U.S. regulators. HSBC North America began the parallel run period, which encompasses enhancements to a number of risk policies, processes and systems to align HSBC North America with the Basel II final rule requirements, in January 2010. The timing of receipt of approval from HSCB North America’s primary regulator is uncertain. While Basel II does not apply directly to us, as a subsidiary of HSBC North America we may be required to execute certain actions or strategies to ensure HSBC North America meets its capital requirements. In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued final rules on “A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems,” commonly referred to as Basel III, which presents details of a bank capital and 18 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation liquidity reform program to address both firm-specific and broader, systemic risks to the banking sector. Although the Basel Committee has issued guidance, we are still awaiting formal instructions as to how the Basel III framework will be implemented by the U.S. regulators. HSBC North America is also in the process of evaluating the Basel III framework for capital and liquidity risk management. HSBC Finance Corporation may need to increase its liquidity or capital profile to support HSBC North America’s compliance with the liquidity and capital requirements imposed by the new rules. Further increases in regulatory capital may be required in response to HSBC North America’s implementation of Basel II and Basel III. The exact amount, however, will depend upon our prevailing risk profile and that of our HSBC North America affiliates under various stress scenarios. We are unable at this time, however, to determine the extent of changes HSBC Finance Corporation will need to make to its liquidity or capital position, if any, and what effect, if any, such changes will have on our results of operations or financial condition. We may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage foreclosure processes and the industry-wide delay in processing foreclosures may have a significant impact upon loss severity. As previously reported, HSBC Finance Corporation, and our indirect parent, HSBC North America, have entered into the Federal Reserve Servicing Consent Order with the Federal Reserve and our affiliate, HSBC Bank USA, N.A., entered into a similar consent order with the OCC following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry foreclosure practices. The Federal Reserve Servicing Consent Order requires us to take prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination and described in the consent order. We continue to work with our regulators to align our processes with the requirements of the Servicing Consent Orders and are implementing operational changes as required. See “Executive Overview” in MD&A and Note 23, “Commitment and Contingent Liabilities,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. We expect the costs associated with the Servicing Consent Orders will result in significant increases in our operational expenses in future periods. In addition, the Servicing Consent Orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Finance Corporation or our affiliates by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the Department of Justice or State Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other sanctions relating to the activities that are the subject of the Servicing Consent Orders. On February 9, 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and State Attorneys General of 49 states announced a settlement with the five largest U.S. mortgage servicers with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. HSBC North America, HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC USA have had preliminary discussions with U.S. bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential resolution, although the timing of any settlement is not presently known. Based on discussions to date, an accrual of $195 million was determined based on the total projected impact at HSBC North America associated with a proposed settlement of this matter. We have recorded an accrual of $157 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 which reflects the portion of the HSBC North America liability that we currently believe is allocable to HSBC Finance Corporation. As this matter progresses and more information becomes available, we will continue to evaluate our portion of the HSBC North America liability which may result in a change to our current estimate. Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal agencies, regulators or law enforcement agencies relating to foreclosure and other mortgage services practices, including, but not limited to, matters relating to the securitization of mortgages for investors, including the imposition of civil money penalties, criminal fines or other sanctions. In addition, such a settlement would not preclude private litigation concerning foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices and we may see an increase in private litigation concerning these practices. Beginning in late 2010, we suspended all new foreclosure proceedings and in early 2011 suspended foreclosures where judgment had not yet been entered while we enhanced our foreclosure documentation and processes. We have resumed processing the majority of suspended foreclosure activities in 48 states where judgment had not yet been entered and anticipate resuming suspended foreclosure activities in all remaining states in the first quarter of 2012. While we have not yet begun initiating new foreclosure activities in any states, we anticipate initiating new 19 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation foreclosure activities in certain states during the first quarter of 2012. However, it will be a number of months before we resume all foreclosure activities in all states as we need to ensure we are satisfied that applicable enhanced processes have been implemented and it will take time to work through the backlog of loans that have not been referred to foreclosure in each state. We expect the number of REO properties added to inventory during 2012 will continue to be impacted by extended foreclosure timelines in all states as we continue to refine our foreclosure processes. In addition, certain courts and state legislatures are implementing new rules or statutes relating to foreclosures. Scrutiny of foreclosure documentation has increased. Also, in some areas, courts are requiring additional verification of information filed prior to the foreclosure proceeding. The combination of these factors when coupled with other mortgage lenders who also temporarily suspended foreclosure activities and have now resumed their foreclosure activities has led to a significant backlog of foreclosures in the marketplace which will take time to resolve. If these trends continue, there could be additional delays in the processing of foreclosures, which could have an adverse impact upon housing prices which is likely to result in higher loss severities while foreclosures are delayed. We may not be able to continue to wind down our real estate secured and personal non-credit card receivable portfolios at the same rate as in recent years. The real estate secured and personal non-credit card receivable portfolios of our Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services businesses are currently running off. The timeframe in which these portfolios will liquidate is dependent upon the rate at which receivables pay off or charge-off prior to their maturity, which fluctuates for a variety of reasons such as interest rates, availability of refinancing, home values and individual borrowers’ credit profile, all of which are outside of our control. In light of the current economic conditions and mortgage industry trends described above as well as an increase in late stage delinquency for real estate secured receivables during 2011 driven by our temporary suspension of foreclosure activities as discussed above, our loan prepayment rates have slowed when compared to historical experience even though interest rates remain low. Although we modified fewer loans during 2011 as a result of tightened modification criteria, overall our loan modification programs, which are primarily designed to improve cash collections and avoid foreclosure as determined to be appropriate, are also contributing to these slower loan prepayment rates. While difficult to project both loan prepayment rates and default rates, based on current experience we expect the real estate secured receivable portfolios of our run-off Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services businesses to decline to between 40 percent and 50 percent of the December 31, 2011 receivable levels over the next four to five years. Attrition will not be linear during this period. While in the near term charge-off related receivable run-off will likely continue to remain elevated due to the economic environment, run-off is beginning to slow as charge-offs decline and the remaining real estate secured receivables stay on the balance sheet longer due to the impact of modifications and/or the lack of re-financing alternatives. We intend to wind down these portfolios as quickly as practicable in a responsible and economically rational manner, considering market pricing as well as other factors. Furthermore, we may be called upon or required by HSBC North America to execute certain actions or strategies, including disposal of portfolios to address capital considerations. While we made substantial progress towards this goal in recent years, we may not be able to liquidate or dispose of these portfolios at the same level or pace as in recent years. As a result, our ability to continue to reduce our risk-weighted assets or reduce related expenses may be adversely affected depending on the ultimate pace or level at which these portfolios are liquidated. Performance of modified loans in the current economic conditions may prove less predictable and result in higher losses. In an effort to provide assistance to our customers who are experiencing financial difficulties in the current weak economy, in recent years we have agreed to modify the terms of a significant number of our loans. While we have a long-standing history of working with customers experiencing financial difficulties, the number of customers that have needed and qualified for loan modifications in the previous three years was significantly higher than in our prior historical experience. Under the current economic conditions, the credit performance of these modified loans may not conform to either historical experience or our expectations. In addition, further deterioration in housing prices and unemployment could negatively impact the performance of the modified portfolio. While our credit loss reserve process considers whether loans have been reaged, 20 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation re-written or are subject to modification, loss reserve estimates are influenced by factors outside our control, such as consumer payment patterns and economic conditions, making it reasonably possible that loss reserve estimates could change in either direction. A significant rise in interest rates may significantly impact our net interest income which may adversely impact our financial results. Both our Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services’ real estate secured receivable portfolios are expected to continue to remain on our balance sheet for extended durations. Reduced mortgage prepayment rates and higher levels of loan modifications have had the effect of extending the projected average life of these loan portfolios. As a result, both net interest income at risk and asset portfolio valuations have increasingly become exposed to rising interest rates as the average life of our liability portfolios has declined while the average life of our asset portfolios has extended. In the event interest rates rise significantly and we are not successful in fully mitigating such rise or otherwise changing the average lives of our liability and asset portfolios, net interest income, and consequently, net income or loss, would be negatively affected. A significant rise in interest rates could also result in slower repayment rates on performing loans. Additionally, with increased risks remaining on the balance sheet, we may be called upon by HSBC North America to execute certain actions or strategies to ensure HSBC North America meets its capital requirements. Recently implemented federal, state and other similar international laws and regulations may significantly impact our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations, including changes in tax rates, affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. Ensuring compliance with increasing regulatory requirements and initiatives could affect operational costs and negatively impact our overall results. Specifically, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the mortgage lending and credit card industries and, more recently, to address additional perceived problems in the financial services industry generally through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including how these products may be originated, the fees and charges that may be applied to accounts and how accounts may be collected or security interests enforced. Any one or more of these effects could negatively impact our results. There is also significant focus on loss mitigation and foreclosure activity for real estate loans. We cannot fully anticipate the response by national regulatory agencies, State Attorneys General, or certain legislators, or if significant changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. This legislation is a sweeping overhaul of the financial regulatory system and includes many provisions specifically relevant to our businesses and the businesses of our affiliates. For a description of the law, see the “Regulation – Financial Regulatory Reform” section under the “Regulation and Competition” section of Item 1. Business. The law will have significant impact on the operations of financial institutions in the U.S., including HSBC Finance Corporation and our affiliates. We are unable at this time, however, to determine the full impact of the law due to the significant number of new rules and regulations that will be promulgated in order to implement the law. The Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) which has broad authority to regulate providers of credit, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Although we are unable to predict what specific measures this new agency may take in applying its regulatory mandate, any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements that the CFPB may promulgate could require changes in our consumer businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. In addition, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may also narrow the scope of federal preemption of state consumer laws and expand the authority of State Attorneys General to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation. Similarly, regulators in the European Union (“EU”) and in the United Kingdom (“UK”) are in the midst of proposing far-reaching programs of financial regulatory reform. These proposals include enhanced capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, changes in compensation practices (including tax levies), separation of retail and wholesale banking, the recovery and resolution of EU financial institutions, amendments to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the Market Abuse directive, and measures to address systemic 21 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation risk. Furthermore, certain G-SIBs, including HSBC Holdings, will be subject to capital surcharges. It has not yet determined whether these G-SIB surcharges will apply to HSBC North America as a subsidiary of HSBC. The implementation of regulations and rules promulgated by these bodies could result in additional costs or limit or restrict the way HSBC conducts its business in the EU and, in particular, in the UK. Furthermore, the potentially far-reaching effects of future changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement as a result of EU or UK legislation and regulation are difficult to predict and could adversely affect HSBC Finance Corporation’s operations. Bankruptcy laws may be changed to allow mortgage “cram-downs,” or court-ordered modifications to our mortgage loans including the reduction of principal balances. Under current bankruptcy laws, courts cannot order modifications of mortgage and home equity loans secured by primary residences. In response to the financial crisis, legislation has been proposed to allow mortgage loan “cram-downs,” or court-ordered modifications, which would empower courts to modify the terms of mortgage and home equity loans including a reduction in the principal amount to reflect lower underlying property values. This could result in writing down the balance of our mortgage and home equity loans to reflect their lower property values. In addition, home equity loans in a second lien position (i.e., behind a mortgage) could experience significantly higher losses to the extent they become unsecured as a result of a cram-down. The availability of principal reductions or other modifications to mortgage loan terms could make bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers, leading to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults. We may incur additional costs and expenses relating to mortgage loan sale and securitization-related activities. Prior to June 2007, a subsidiary of HSBC Finance originated mortgage loans sourced by independent mortgage brokers and sold such loans to secondary market purchasers to facilitate whole loan securitizations sponsored or underwritten by several of our counterparties and their affiliates, including our affiliates, HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. In connection with these loan sale transactions, we made representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements. We have been, and may continue to be, required to repurchase loans and/or indemnify private investors for losses due to breaches of these representations and warranties. We maintain a reserve for potential repurchase liability exposure that, in accordance with applicable accounting principles, represents the amount of loss from this contingency that is both probable and can be reasonably estimated at this time. As of December 31, 2011, our estimate of this exposure and the related reserve were immaterial. Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses are dependent upon economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external risk factors such as housing market trends that may change, the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses requires significant judgment. As our estimate of this exposure is influenced by factors outside our control, there is uncertainty inherent in this estimate and actual losses could be significantly higher than the amount reserved. Participants in the U.S. mortgage securitization market have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups such as sponsors, underwriters, servicers, originators or trustees of mortgage securitizations, and at particular participants within these groups. We expect this level of focus to continue and potentially intensify, so long as the U.S. real estate markets continue to be distressed. As a result, we may be subject to additional claims, litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our participation as a sponsor or originator in the U.S. mortgage securitization market. We do not currently maintain a reserve with respect to this potential liability. Significant reductions in pension assets may require additional financial contributions from us. Effective January 1, 2005, our previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Bank USA’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. At December 31, 2010, the defined benefit plan was frozen, significantly reducing future benefit accruals. At December 31, 2011, plan assets were lower than projected plan liabilities resulting in an under-funded status. The accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $790 million. As these obligations relate to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of this deficit could be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North America affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the Pension Protection Act. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability 22 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation valuations. See Note 18, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information concerning the HSBC North America defined benefit plan. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings may continue and increase in the current economic and regulatory environment. In the ordinary course of business, HSBC Finance Corporation and our affiliates are routinely named as defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions and proceedings relating to our current and/or former operations and are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-gathering requests, investigations and formal and informal proceedings, as described in Note 23, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions and other relief. There is no certainty that the litigation will decrease in the near future, especially in the event of continued high unemployment rates, a resurgent recession or additional regulatory and law enforcement investigations and proceedings by federal and state governmental agencies. Further, the environment of heightened regulatory scrutiny, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by banking and other financial regulators, including the newly-formed CFPB, State Attorneys General or state regulatory and law enforcement agencies that, if determined adversely, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause us serious reputational harm. Management projections, estimates and judgments based on historical performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities. Certain asset and liability valuations and, in particular, loan loss reserve estimates are subject to management’s judgment and actual results are influenced by factors outside our control. Judgment remains a more significant factor in the estimation of inherent probable losses in our loan portfolios, including second lien loans with first lien mortgages that we do not own or service. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency and the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in historical models, unexpected additional losses could result. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC necessary as part of such plans and strategies. This evaluation process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, future corporate tax rates, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Note 14, “Income Taxes,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred tax assets. Changes in accounting standards are beyond our control and may have a material impact on how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and HSBC North America’s bank regulators, including the Federal Reserve Board, change the financial accounting and reporting standards, or the interpretation thereof, and guidance that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. 23 Table of Contents HSBC Finance Corporation Key employees may be difficult to retain due to contraction of the business and limits on promotional activities. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our businesses, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Our recent financial performance, reductions in variable compensation and other benefits and the expectation of continued weakness in the general economy could raise concerns about key employees’ future compensation and opportunities for promotion. As economic conditions improve, we may face increased difficulty in retaining top performers and critical skilled employees. If key personnel were to leave us and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable within HSBC or could not be sourced in the market, our ability to manage our business through any continued or future difficult economic environment and implement the strategic initiatives currently underway may be hindered or impaired. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2011. 