Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. The unprecedented current market and economic conditions may continue to affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the nature of our historical business as a consumer lender to generally non-conforming and non-prime customers, we are particularly exposed to the continued turmoil in the economy, housing downturn, high unemployment, tighter credit conditions and reduced economic growth that have occurred over the past two years and appear likely to continue in 2010. General business, economic and market conditions that could continue to affect us include: • short-term and long-term interest rates; • a continuing recessionary economy; • unemployment levels: • inflation; • monetary supply; • fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations; • availability of liquidity; • market value of residential real estate throughout the United States; • tighter consumer credit conditions; • higher bankruptcy filings; and • new laws, regulations or regulatory initiatives. In a poor economic environment such as currently being experienced in the United States, more of our customers are likely to, and have in fact become delinquent on their loans or other obligations as many of our customers are 12 HSBC Finance Corporation experiencing reductions in cash flow available to service their debt. These delinquencies, in turn, have resulted in higher levels of provision for credit losses and charge-offs, which have adversely affected our earnings and resulted in significant losses from the third quarter of 2007, to date. The problems in the housing markets in the United States in the last three years, including home price depreciation in many markets, have been exacerbated by the significantly higher unemployment rates. Unemployment rates have been rising in most markets. If unemployment rates continue to increase, additional losses are likely to be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards. The dramatic decline in property values experienced throughout much of the United States continued through 2009, although housing prices experienced some stabilization in the second half of 2009. While we believe that the slowdown in the housing markets has started to stabilize, there is continuing concern that foreclosures may increase in 2010, which could result in further deterioration of property values and can be expected to result in increased delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. The changes to the conditions described above were a significant factor in our decision to discontinue our auto and Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services lending operations. Mortgage lenders have substantially tightened lending standards. These actions have impacted borrowers’ abilities to refinance existing mortgage loans. The ability to refinance and extract equity from their homes is no longer an option to many of our customers. This impacted both credit performance and run-off rates and also was a significant factor in our decision to discontinue new real estate loan originations in 2009, and has resulted in significantly elevated delinquency rates for real estate secured loans in our portfolio. This tightening of lending standards and related impact is also expected to continue. Additionally, the high levels of inventory of homes for sale combined with depressed property values in many markets has resulted in higher loss severities on homes that are foreclosed and remarketed and is impacting the ability of some of our customers to continue to pay on their loans. Beginning in 2008, we significantly increased the use of loan modifications in an effort to assist our customers who are currently experiencing longer term financial difficulties as discussed above. At December 31, 2009, greater than 30 percent of our real estate secured receivable portfolio has been modified. Given the large number of modified loans in our portfolio, it is unclear as to whether our historical performance patterns for modified loans will be consistent with past experience in the current economic environment. In the event economic conditions continue to be depressed, unemployment rates increase or do not decline, or the performance of modified loans is significantly worse than historical performance patterns, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios leading to continued losses to be reported from operations. The transition to Basel II in 2011 may continue to put significant pressure on earnings and capital. Subject to regulatory approval, HSBC North America will be required to adopt Basel II provisions no later than April 1, 2011. While Basel II does not apply directly to us, as a subsidiary of HBSC North America we will be required to meet the risk-based capital requirements of Basel II as if we were subject to its provisions. Whether any increase in capital will be required prior to the Basel II adoption date will be based on our prevailing risk profile. Both our consumer lending and mortgage services’ real estate secured receivables will continue to remain on our balance sheet for extended durations. Reduced mortgage prepayment rates and higher levels of loan modifications have had the effect of extending the projected average life of these loan portfolios. As a result, both net interest income at risk and asset portfolio valuations have increasingly become exposed to rising interest rates as the average life of our liability portfolios has declined while the average life of our asset portfolios has extended. In the event we are not successful in fully mitigating these risks and interest rates rise significantly, net interest income, and consequently, net income or loss, would be negatively affected. Also, with increased risks remaining on the balance sheet, there may be a further increase in our capital requirements as well as changes in our funding mix, reducing our return on capital and resulting in lower net income or continued shrinking of the balance sheet. HSBC has demonstrated its support of HSBC Finance Corporation through significant capital contributions. In the last three years, our parent has contributed in total $950 million in 2007, $3.5 billion in 2008 and $2.7 billion in 13 HSBC Finance Corporation 2009. Capital infusions from HSBC have and will continue to be crucial to our continued operations. HSBC is committed to and has the capacity to fund the needs of the business. In the absence of HSBC support, our credit ratings would be downgraded and our cost of funding our operations would rise substantially, negatively impacting net interest income and net income or loss. Newly-implemented Federal and state laws and regulations may significantly impact our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. Specifically, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the credit card industry and more recently, to additionally address problems in the financial services industry generally through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of products we can offer, how these products may be originated, and the fees and charges that may be applied to accounts, which ultimately could negatively impact our results. There is also significant focus on loss mitigation and foreclosure activity for real estate loans. Although we believe our loan modification programs are most appropriate and responsive to our customers’ needs, we cannot anticipate the response by national regulatory agencies and certain legislators or if changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result. Specifically and of utmost relevance to our ongoing credit card operations and business, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 was signed into law on May 22, 2009. The CARD Act, which through Federal Reserve Board rulemaking becomes effective in three stages (i.e., August 2009, February 2010 and August 2010), primarily amends the Truth in Lending Act by adding a number of new substantive and disclosure requirements building upon the Regulation AA and Regulation Z requirements adopted by the Federal Reserve Board in January 2009 (the “January 2009 rules”). The February 2010 rulemaking implemented the majority of the CARD Act provisions which, among other things, restrict application of interest rate increases on new and existing balances, prescribe the manner in which payments in excess of the minimum payment may be allocated to amounts due and when penalty rates may be charged on past due balances, and require customers to opt-in to over limit fee assessments. Because many of the requirements of the January 2009 Regulation AA and Regulation Z rules are included in the February 2010 CARD Act rule, the Federal Reserve Board has issued notices withdrawing the January 2009 rules. The Federal Reserve is expected in the near term to promulgate rules that will interpret and implement the provisions of the CARD Act which take effect in August 2010. The August 2010 CARD Act rules will address the reasonableness and proportionality of penalty fees and charges and require that accounts subjected to prior interest rate increases be periodically re-evaluated for interest rate decreases. The CARD Act also requires other government agencies to conduct studies on interchange, debt cancellation agreements and credit insurance products and present reports to Congress on these topics. We are compliant with the provisions of the CARD Act that took effect in August 2009 and February 2010 and continue to make changes to processes and systems in order to comply with the remaining provisions of the CARD Act by the applicable August 2010 effective date. The CARD Act has required us to make changes to our business practices, and will likely require us and our competitors to manage risk differently than has historically been the case. Pricing, underwriting and product changes in response to the new legislation have either been implemented or are under analysis. Although we currently believe the implementation of these new rules is likely to have a material adverse financial impact to us, the full impact of the CARD Act on us at this time remains uncertain as it ultimately depends upon interpretations of the Federal Reserve Board and other government agencies of some of the provisions discussed above, successful implementation of our strategies, consumer behavior and the actions of our competitors. In 2009, the U.S. Federal government and banking regulators continued their efforts to stabilize the U.S. economy and reform the financial services industry. For a description of the proposals, see the “Regulation – Consumer” section under the “Regulation and Competition” section of Item 1. Business. It is likely that some portion of the financial regulatory reform proposals will be adopted and enacted. The reforms may have significant impact on the operations of financial institutions in the U.S., including us and our affiliates. However, it is not possible to assess the impact of financial regulatory reform until final legislation has been enacted and related regulations have been adopted. 14 HSBC Finance Corporation Our inability to meet funding requirements could impact operations. Our liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. Restrictions on our liquidity could have a negative effect on our financial results and our operations. In the first half of 2009, domestic and international capital markets remained extremely volatile. Debt investors remained cautious, waiting to fully understand the level and specifics of Treasury intervention, as well as the impact of the U.S. government’s economic stimulus plans before returning to the markets. Beginning in the second quarter of 2009 and continuing through the end of the year, credit spreads narrowed due to the increased market confidence stemming largely from various government actions taken to restore faith in the capital markets. The narrowing of credit spreads enabled many businesses to issue debt and raise new capital resulting in improving capital markets and a recovery in the stock market which is bolstering consumer and business sentiment. Commercial paper markets remained open throughout 2009 and provided a valuable source of liquidity. To supplement our liquidity management process we participated in the CPFF program and issued $2.0 billion under the program during the first quarter of 2009. There were no outstanding balances at December 31, 2009 under this program. Traditional providers of credit to the subprime market have reduced their exposure to subprime assets and tightened the credit standards necessary to receive financing supported by these assets. This has both raised our costs associated with various funding alternatives and reduced the availability of third party funding. Potential conditions that will negatively affect our liquidity include diminished access to capital markets, a reduction in committed credit, unforeseen cash or capital requirements, a further slow down in cash collections, an inability to sell assets and an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients. Capital infusions from our parent, HSBC, have been essential to our continued operations. The pace of our balance sheet attrition has a significant impact on our liquidity and risk management processes. Properly managing these processes is critical in mitigating any liquidity risk. Lower cash flow resulting from declining receivable balances as well as lower cash generated from balance sheet attrition due to increased charge-offs, is currently not projected to provide sufficient cash to fully cover maturing debt over the next four to five years. Required funding will be generated through a combination of capital infusions from HSBC, selected debt issuances and sales of receivable portfolios held for sale. In the event a portion of this gap was met through issuances of unsecured term debt to either retail or institutional investors, these issuances would better match the projected cash flows of the remaining real estate secured receivable portfolio and partly reduce reliance on direct HSBC support. HSBC has demonstrated its support through significant capital contributions in the last three years. HSBC is committed to and has the capacity to fund the needs of the business. In the absence of HSBC support, our credit ratings would be further downgraded and our cost of funding our operations would rise substantially, negatively impacting net interest income and net income or loss. In 2010, $4.3 billion in back-up lines with third parties that support our commercial paper issuance will mature. Based on current market conditions and a declining need for liquidity as our receivable portfolio runs-off, we do not anticipate renewing all of our third party back-up lines in 2010. In addition, $400 million in conduit credit facilities will mature in the second quarter of 2010. If all or a significant portion of these expiring back-up lines or conduit credit facilities are not renewed, we would most likely issue institutional and retail debt at interest rates that would negatively impact our net interest income and consequently, net income or loss. Our three third party committed bank credit facilities now each include two financial covenants which require us to maintain a minimum ratio of our tangible common equity to tangible managed assets and a minimum level of our debt held by HSBC affiliates. In the event we did not meet these tests and that noncompliance was not cured, we would be prohibited from drawing down on our liquidity facilities which would restrict our ability to issue commercial paper and further reduce available funding sources. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. Any downgrade in credit ratings would increase borrowing costs to higher levels, impact the ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on its severity, substantially limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain significant contracts. 15 HSBC Finance Corporation Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, human error, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business and reputation. Operational risk is inherent in virtually all of our activities. While we have established and maintain an overall risk framework that is designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well-defined independent risk management, we continue to be subject to some degree of operational risk. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other recordkeeping systems and management controls fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. HSBC North America will continue the implementation of several high priority systems improvements and enhancements and the centralization of corporate functions in 2010, each of which may present increased or additional operational risk that may not be known until their implementation is complete. Additionally, the closing of certain company sites and data center moves may increase operational risk to levels which may be unknown until such events are complete. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems infrastructure arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include: • computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages; • natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes; • events arising from local or regional politics including terrorist acts; • unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems; or • global pandemics which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability by us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are likely to occur from time to time. In recent years, instances of identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Use of the internet for these purposes has also increased. Such acts can have the following possible impacts: • threaten the assets of our customers; • negatively impact customer credit ratings; • impact customers’ ability to repay loan balances; • increase costs for us to respond to such threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure maximum security of data; or • damage our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into our systems and databases. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our 16 HSBC Finance Corporation results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include: • raising the minimum payment or fees to be charged on credit card accounts; • determining to acquire or sell credit card, real estate secured or other receivables; • changing to our charge-off policies or customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices; • increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or • outsourcing of various operations. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings may continue and increase in the current economic and anticipated regulatory environment. HSBC Finance Corporation and our subsidiaries are named as defendants in various legal actions, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. These or other future actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, adverse to us which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational harm. We saw a substantial increase in litigation in 2009 resulting from the deterioration of customers’ personal financial condition, the mortgage market downturn and general economic conditions as borrowers allege they obtained unaffordable loans or loans with terms that were unsuitable for that borrower. Although we believe the number of new cases should stabilize or even decrease in 2010, there is no certainty that this will occur, especially in the event of increased unemployment rates or a resurgent recession. With the increased regulatory environment, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by banking regulators, state attorneys general or state regulators which may cause financial or reputational harm. Our reputation has a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to: • appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; • legal and regulatory requirements; • ethical issues, including alleged deceptive or unfair lending or servicing practices; • anti-money laundering and economic sanctions: • privacy issues; • fraud issues; • data security issues; • record-keeping; • sales and trading practices; • the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in products offered; and • general company performance. 17 HSBC Finance Corporation The failure to address these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us or give rise to increased regulatory actions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Key employees may be difficult to retain due to the contraction of the business and limits on promotional opportunities. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our business, including credit risk analysis, underwriting, servicing, collection, sales and executive management, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The significant losses we have recognized, reductions in variable compensation and other benefits, reductions of the size and scope of operations and the winding down of significant portions of the businesses could raise concerns about key employees’ future compensation and promotional opportunities. If key personnel were to leave HSBC Finance Corporation and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable within HSBC or could not be sourced in the market to fill these roles, our ability to efficiently manage through the difficult economy and transformational changes may be hindered or impaired. Unanticipated risks may impact our results. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques and prepare contingency plans in anticipation of developments, those techniques and plans and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage all significant risks we face is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. Management projections, estimates and judgments based on historical performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, including goodwill and intangibles, among other items. In particular, loan loss reserve estimates are influenced by factors outside our control. Due to the unprecedented and sudden deterioration in performance of our loan portfolios over the past few years, judgment has become a more significant factor in the estimation of inherent probable losses in the portfolios as a component of HSBC Finance Corporation’s models for estimating inherent probable credit losses. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency and the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in the historical model, unexpected additional losses could result. In particular, the changes in the charge-off policies relating to our consumer and mortgage lending operations as discussed in this Form 10-K are significant. Prior experience with that policy does not exist within our portfolios. The impact of this change is likely to increase charge-offs and post charge-off recoveries, decrease modification volumes and the impact on our customer behavior is uncertain. In addition, our historical performance trends for modified loans may not be reflective of the performance of loans modified since January 2007 as a result of the current economic environment, including among other things, higher unemployment rates and home price depreciation. Another example in which management judgment is significant is in the evaluation of the recognition of deferred tax assets and in the determination of whether there is a need for a valuation allowance. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC as a necessary part of such plans and strategies. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. Included in our forecasts are assumptions regarding our estimate of future expected credit losses which include 18 HSBC Finance Corporation assumptions about further home price depreciation and future unemployment levels and their related impact on credit losses. The use of different assumptions can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Note 18, “Income Taxes,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance. Changes in accounting standards are beyond our control and may have a material impact on how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board, change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. Significant reductions in pension assets may require additional financial contributions from us. Effective January 1, 2005, HSBC Finance Corporation’s previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Bank USA’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. We are responsible for providing approximately 40 percent of the financial support required by the plan. In 2008 and 2009, the plan had allocated assets between three primary strategies: domestic equities, international equities and fixed income securities. At December 31, 2009, plan assets were lower than projected plan liabilities resulting in an under-funded status. During this period, domestic and international equity indices increased between 20 percent and 30 percent while interest rates decreased. After expenses, the combination of positive equity returns and fixed income returns along with a $241 million contribution to the plan by HSBC North America in 2009 resulted in an overall increase in plan assets of eight percent in 2009. This increase, when combined with an increase in the projected benefit obligation continued to result in an under-funded status. At December 31, 2009, the projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $970 million and the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $775 million. As these obligations relate to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of this deficit should be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North American affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the Pension Protection Act. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, changes to the plan, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. See Note 22, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information concerning the HSBC North America defined benefit plan. Performance of modified loans in the current economic conditions may prove less predictable and result in higher losses. In an effort to provide assistance to our customers who are experiencing financial difficulties in the current weak economy, in the last three years we have agreed to modify the terms of a significant number of our loans. While we have a long-standing history of working with customers experiencing financial difficulties, the number of customers that need and qualify for loan modifications is significantly higher than our historical experience. Under the current economic conditions, the credit performance of these modified loans may not conform to historical experience. In addition, further deterioration in housing prices and unemployment could negatively impact the performance of the modified portfolio. While our credit loss reserve process considers whether loans have been restructured, re-written or are subject to modification, loss reserve estimates are influenced by factors outside our control, such as consumer payment patterns and economic conditions, making it reasonably possible that they could change in either direction. 19 HSBC Finance Corporation Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2009. 