ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Fonar is highly speculative and subject to a high degree of risk. Therefore, you should carefully consider the risks discussed below and other information contained in this annual report before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. 1. In the past we have experienced significant losses and may in the future incur losses. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006, we experienced net losses of $25.5 million and $30.0 million respectively and losses from operations of $25.5 million and $29.7 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2007, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $1.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $2.0 million in marketable securities out of total current assets of $23.0 million as compared to $4.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $4.9 million in marketable securities out of total current assets of $38.9 million as of June 30, 2006, reflecting a decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of June 30, 2007, we had a working capital deficit of $7.6 million as compared to a working capital surplus of $14.2 million as of June 30, 2006. We believe that we will be able to reduce our operating loss and generate operating income by continuing the marketing of our new MRI scanners, particularly our Upright(TM) MRI scanners. 2. Fonar is dependant on the success of its new products to become profitable. Our ability to generate future operating profits will depend on our ability to market and sell our MRI products. The Upright(TM) MRI and Fonar 360 MRI scanners have been introduced into the market. Although we are optimistic that these scanners' features will make them competitive, and we perceive that the Upright(TM) MRI is successfully penetrating the market, notwithstanding lower sales in fiscal 2007 and 2006, there can be no assurance as to the degree, timing or continuation of market acceptance of these products. The product we are promoting most vigorously is the Upright(TM) MRI. We believe the Upright(TM) MRI is the most promising because it enables scans to be performed on patients in weight bearing positions, such as sitting, standing or lying at an intermediate angle or in any of the conventional recumbent positions. We sold on Fonar 360 MRI scanner in fiscal 2005. 3. We must compete in a highly competitive market against competitors with greater financial resources than we have. The medical equipment industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology and extensive research and development. The market demand for a continuing supply of new and improved products requires that we be engaged continuously in research and development. New products also require continuous retooling or at least modifications to our manufacturing facilities, and our sales and marketing force must continuously adjust to new products and product features. This is highly expensive and companies with substantially greater financial resources than we have engage in the marketing of magnetic resonance imaging scanners which compete with the Company's scanners. Competitors include large, multinational companies or their affiliates such as General Electric Company, Siemens A.G., Philips N.V., Toshiba Corporation and Hitachi Corporation. There can be no assurance that Fonar's products will be able to successfully compete with products of its competitors. 4. HMCA's profitability depends on its ability to successfully perform billing and collection services for its clients. HMCA performs billing and collection services for the facilities it manages. The viability of HMCA's clients and their ability to remit management fees to HMCA depends on HMCA's ability to collect the clients' receivables. Collectibility of these receivables can be adversely affected by the longer payment cycles and rigorous informational requirements of some insurance companies or other third party payors. Proper authorizations, referrals and confirmation of coverage for patients, as well as issues of medical necessity, need to be addressed prior to the rendering of service to assure prompt payment of claims. HMCA believes it is properly addressing billing and collection requirements and issues for its clients and that its collection rates are good. Nevertheless, the regulations and requirements applicable to medical billing and collections could change in the future and result in reduced or delayed collections. 5. The profitability of HMCA could be adversely affected if medical insurance reimbursement rates change. All HMCA's revenue is now generated from providers of MRI services. Consequently, HMCA would be indirectly affected by changes in medical insurance reimbursement policies, referral patterns, no-fault and workers compensation reimbursement levels and other factors affecting the profitability of an MRI facility. There are currently 12 MRI facilities served by HMCA located in New York, Florida and Georgia. Approximately 33.1% of HMCA's clients' revenues in fiscal 2007, 43% of HMCA's clients' revenues in fiscal 2006 and 59.3% in fiscal 2005 were generated from no-fault claims. Approximately 4.8% of HMCA's clients' revenues were from workers' compensation claims in fiscal 2007 as compared to 4.1% in fiscal 2006 and 6.2% in fiscal 2005. In addition, in fiscal 2007, approximately 20.1% of the revenues of HMCA's clients were attributable to Medicare and 1.6% were attributable to Medicaid. In fiscal 2006, approximately 18.2% of the revenues of HMCA's clients were attributable to Medicare and 1.1% were attributable to Medicaid. In fiscal 2005, approximately 9.9% of the revenues of HMCA's clients were attributable to Medicare and 0.5% were attributable to Medicaid. The Deficit Reduction Act has had a negative but not material effect on the Medicare receipts of HMCA's clients. Future changes in the reimbursement levels for MRI, workers compensation, no fault reimbursement or Medicare, or changes in utilization policies for MRI also could adversely affect the ability of HMCA's clients to pay HMCA's fees. In addition, HMCA depends on the ability of its clients to attract and retain physicians and other professional staff. 6. Professional liability claims against HMCA or its clients may exceed insurance coverage levels. Although HMCA does not provide medical services, it is possible that a patient suing one of HMCA's MRI facilities would also sue HMCA. All of HMCA's 12 currently managed MRI facilities carry professional liability insurance. In addition, physicians working for HMCA's clients, are required to maintain professional liability insurance in the minimum amount of $1,000,000/$3,000,000. Such insurance would not cover HMCA, which is not insured, and claims in excess of insurance coverage might also have to be satisfied by HMCA if it were named as a defendant. 7. We are dependent upon the services of Dr. Damadian. Our success is greatly dependent upon the continued participation of Dr. Raymond V. Damadian, Fonar's founder, Chairman of the Board and President. Dr. Damadian has acted as our CEO since 1978 and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. In addition to providing general supervision and direction, he provides active direction, supervision and management of our sales, marketing and research and development efforts. Loss of the services of Dr. Damadian would have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have an employment or noncompetition agreement with Dr. Damadian. We do not currently carry "key man" life insurance on Dr. Damadian. 8. Dr. Raymond V. Damadian has voting control of Fonar; the management cannot be changed or the Company sold without his agreement. Dr. Raymond V. Damadian, the President, Chairman of the Board and principal stockholder of Fonar is and will continue to be in control of Fonar and in a position to elect all of the directors of Fonar. As of September 14, 2007, there were outstanding 4,894,207 shares of common stock, having one vote per share, 158 shares of Class B common stock, having ten votes per share and 382,513 shares of Class C common stock, having 25 votes per share. Of these totals Dr. Damadian owns 120,302 shares of common stock and 382,447 shares of Class C common stock, giving him approximately 67% of the voting power of Fonar's voting stock. This means that the holders of the common stock other than Dr. Damadian will not be able to control decisions concerning any merger or sale of Fonar, the election of directors or the determination of business and management policy. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 