Item 1A. Risk Factors Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “we,” “us,” “our,” in this subsection “Risk Factors” refer to the Company or CTI. We are subject to a number of risks listed below, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of the securities issued by us. You should carefully consider all of the information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K and, in particular, the risks described below before investing in our Class A common stock or other securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed and you may lose part or all of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Economic conditions could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our business may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general geopolitical economic and business conditions, conditions in the financial services markets, and changes in the overall demand for networking products. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our customers’ financial condition and the levels of business activity of our customers. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could cause businesses to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for networking products. The current economic crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity, currency and fixed income markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments and negative economic trends on our business, including the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; customer insolvencies; decreased customer confidence to make purchasing decisions; decreased customer demand; and decreased customer ability to pay their trade obligations. Additionally, we may not be able to borrow additional funds under our existing loan agreements and may not be able to expand our existing facilities if our lender becomes in-solvent or its liquidity is limited or impaired. In addition, we may not be able to renew our existing loan agreements at the conclusion of their current terms or renew it on terms that are favorable to us. If conditions in the global economy, United States and United Kingdom economies, or other geographic markets remain uncertain or weaken further, such conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to many risks associated with doing business outside the United States which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The majority of our operations are conducted in the United Kingdom. We face many risks in connection with the majority of our operations outside the United States, including, but not limited to: • adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • political and economic disruptions; • the imposition of tariffs and import and export controls; • increased customs or local regulations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; 15 Table of Contents • restrictions on the repatriation of funds; and • increased government regulations related to increasing or reducing business activity in various countries. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, in 2008 and 2009, we generated approximately 73% of our revenues from operations in the United Kingdom. Revenues derived from operations in the United Kingdom were negatively impacted in 2009 as compared to 2008 due to the reduction in the average conversion rate of the British pound to the U.S. dollar. If we incur losses, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be negatively impacted. We recognized a net loss of approximately $1.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. Although we recognized a net income of approximately $800 thousand in fiscal year 2008, we had suffered net losses in prior years. Our accumulated deficit was approximately $18.0 million at December 31, 2009. Although we have developed a business plan and implemented a number of programs, including the discontinuance of unprofitable product lines, there can be no assurance that our business plan adequately addresses the circumstances and situations which will enable the Company to return to profitability. If we continue to incur losses, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be negatively impacted. Restrictive covenants in the Loan Agreement related to our Acquisition Loan and Revolving Loan may reduce our operating flexibility which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The Loan Agreement related to our Acquisition Loan and Revolving Loan contains various financial covenants as well as covenants that restrict our ability to, among other matters: • incur other indebtedness; • dispose of all, or any part, of our business or assets; • make acquisitions; and • issue securities. Additionally, the amount available under our Revolving Loan facility is based off of our meeting various financial covenants and may be limited. These restrictions may limit our ability to obtain future financing, make capital expenditures or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise from time to time. Our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, such as general economic conditions. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all the covenants of the Acquisition Loan and the Revolving Loan. Pursuant to the terms of the Loan Agreement, the failure to comply with covenants constitutes an event of default and entitles the lender to, among other things, declare all or a portion of the loan due and payable or foreclose on the collateral securing the loan. If the lender accelerates the repayment of borrowings or forecloses on the collateral, it will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to record impairments on our intangible assets and goodwill which could have an adverse material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. On December 22, 2006, we recorded intangible assets of approximately $6.0 million and goodwill of approximately $4.9 million related to the CTI Billing Solutions Limited acquisition. We continuously assess the value of the intangibles; however, there can be no assurances that there will not be an impairment on the value of such intangibles in the future. If these assets become impaired, such assets will be expensed in the periods they become impaired which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Since we derive a substantial percentage of our revenue from contracts with a few customers, the loss of one or 16 Table of Contents all of these customers could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a single customer. A single customer generated approximately $2.8 million (18% of total revenue) in revenues in fiscal 2009 and $3.5 million (16% of total revenue) in fiscal 2008. Although that customer’s contract now includes an automatic annual renewal provision effective each March, it does contain a 120-day prior notification termination clause. The contract was automatically renewed in March 2010. The loss of that customer would have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our largest three customers total $5,645,035 (36% of total revenue) and $7,168,313 (32% of total revenue) in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. A loss of any of these customers would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in developing or launching our new software products and services, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We invest significant resources in the research and development of new and enhanced software products and services. We incurred research and development expenses of approximately $2.5 million and $3.6 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, we incurred and capitalized approximately $1.1 million and $0.8 million in internal software development costs which were primarily related to next generation releases of Analysis, emPulse and SmartRecord® IP. The net book value of capitalized software amounted to approximately $1.8 million at December 31, 2009. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts selling new software products, which could result in an impairment of the value of the related capitalized software costs and corresponding adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The telecommunications billing services industry is subject to continually evolving industry standards and rapid technological changes to which we may not be able to respond which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The markets for our software products and services are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Our business success will depend in part upon our continued ability to enhance our existing products and services, to introduce new products and services quickly and cost-effectively, to meet evolving customer needs, to achieve market acceptance for new product and service offerings and to respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new industry standards. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not develop competitive products, or that any new competitive products will not have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our products are consistently subject to pricing pressure. We intend further to refine, enhance and develop some of our existing software and billing systems and change our billing and accounts receivable management services operations to reduce the number of systems and technologies that must be maintained and supported. There can be no assurance that: • we will be successful in refining, enhancing and developing our software and billing systems in the future; • the costs associated with refining, enhancing and developing these software products and billing systems will not increase significantly in future periods; • we will be able to successfully migrate our billing and accounts receivable management services operations to the most proven software systems and technology; • our existing software and technology will not become obsolete as a result of ongoing technological developments in the marketplace or • competitors will develop enhanced software and billing systems before us. If any of the foregoing events occur, this could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We may not be able to compete successfully, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete with a number of companies, primarily in the United States and United Kingdom, that provide products and services that serve the same function as those provided by us, many of which are larger than us and have greater financial resources and better name recognition for their products than we do. Although we operate in a highly fragmented market, numerous competitors in the United States and the United Kingdom provide products and services comparable to our products and services which have the potential to acquire some or all of our market share in their respective geographic markets which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our patented technology and enforce our intellectual property rights, which will have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We own two patents used in our SmartBill® product which is a product in our EIM segment representing 22% of our total revenues in fiscal 2009, which cover a method and process to prepare, display, and analyze usage and cost information for services such as, but not limited to, telecommunications, financial card services, and utilities. Other companies have developed programs which replicate the patented technology and which we believe violates our patents. Although we have undertaken enforcement activities, including litigation, to protect or enforce our patents, we cannot assure you that the steps taken to protect the patented process will always be successful. Our failure to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The patents expire in 2011. Our business may suffer as a result of the settlement of outstanding patent claims. We have written letters and filed lawsuits claiming the possible infringement of our patents. We entered into various settlements in prior actions and we may negotiate additional settlements in the future. Those settlements provided substantial cash payments to us and, in return, we waived our claims for past patent violations and granted in certain instances one time purchase of ongoing licenses to use the technology to the parties involved in those actions. See Part I — Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Although we strive to arrange for continued licensing revenue stream in the case of potential infringers, we may not be successful in negotiating such licensing agreements. Since those parties are our potential customers, the effect of granting one time purchase of ongoing licenses as well as the fact that we brought legal claims against those parties could reduce our ability to find new customers for our products which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful when we enter new markets and that lack of success could limit the our growth. As we enter into new markets outside the United States, including countries in Asia, Africa, and Europe, we face the uncertainty of not having previously done business in those commercial, political and social settings. Accordingly, despite our best efforts, the likelihood of success in each new market, which we enter, is unpredictable for reasons particular to each new market. For example, our success in any new market is based primarily on acceptance of our products and services in such market. It is also possible that some unforeseen circumstances could arise which would limit our ability to continue to do business or to expand in that new market. Our potential failure to succeed in the new markets would limit our ability to expand and grow. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results and comply with the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. As a result, current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Exchange Act, which could adversely affect our business and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), we are required to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K, our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, the registered 18 Table of Contents public accounting firm’s attestation report on our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have completed our compliance for management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and implemented a plan for compliance with the accounting firm’s attestation report requirements of Section 404, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any “significant deficiencies” or “material weaknesses” within our processes. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, any failure to establish and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential stockholders and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Exchange Act, which could adversely affect our business. Control of our stock is concentrated among our directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates who can exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval. As of March 11, 2010, our directors and executive officers and their respective affiliates beneficially owned 75.5% of the outstanding Class A common stock. These stockholders can exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of major corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control of us. We are subject to the penny stock rules which may adversely affect trading in our Class A common stock. On March 11, 2010, the closing price of our Class A common stock was $0.05. Our Class A common stock is a “penny stock” security under the rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in certain transactions involving penny stocks must first deliver a disclosure document that describes, among other matters, the risks associated with trading in penny stocks. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for penny stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these determinations in writing to the customer and obtain specific written consent from the customer. The effect of these restrictions will probably decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our Class A common stock, decrease liquidity of our Class A common stock and increase transaction costs for sales and purchases of our Class A common stock as compared to other securities. There is not presently an active market for shares of our Class A common stock, and, therefore, you may be unable to sell any shares of Class A common stock in the event that you need a source of liquidity. Although our Class A common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, the trading in our Class A common stock has substantially less liquidity than the trading in the securities of many other companies listed on that market. A public trading market in the securities having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our securities at any time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. In the event an active market for the securities does not develop, you may be unable to resell your shares of Class A common stock at or above the price you pay for them or at any price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 