ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risks and uncertainties when reading this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to the risks below, other risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. All of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such a case, you could lose all or a part of your original investment. You should carefully consider the risks before making an investment decision. If any of the events described below actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks and differing regulatory requirements. Geographic information is discussed in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements. Investors in the Company. should consider carefully, in addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this report, the following risk factors. We have a limited history of production and recovery. We have limited history of producing and recoverying gold or other metals. The exploration and development of our Good Ground, Uprightness and Eternity Ghana West Africa gold concession projects as well as other mining projects in the U.S and Ghana requires the completion of successful exploration, construction, start-up and operation of the mine, processing plants and related infrastructure. As a result, we are subject to all of the risks associated with establishing new mining operations and business enterprises. There can be no assurance that we will successfully establish mining operations or profitably produce gold or other metals at any of our properties. We have no history of scaling up from an E-Waste pilot facility that has resulted in the use of two processing methods for precious metals extraction to quantity processing in a large full scale processing plant. We have no history of migrating from development of innovative technologies in the areas of separation science, extractive metallurgy and medical diagnostics to commercially viable applications as a profitable business enterprise. We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. As a scientific research and development company that has no history of production and recovery, we have incurred losses since our inception. As of May 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $(27,352,868) and a shareholder equity of $222,934. Our ability to address and sustain profitability applying our technology in mining-related projects and E-waste processing will depend on the prices of gold and other precious metals and on our ability to control costs. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. The calculation of our joint venture’s subsurface planned work program exploration budget during the initial 2 year tenure (with right of extension for a third year) of the four Good Ground prospecting licenses is subject to significant estimates. Unless otherwise indicated mineralization figures presented in our filings with the SEC, press releases and other public statements that may be made from time to time are based on estimates. These estimates are imprecise and depend on geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling that may prove to be unreliable. There can be no assurance that: 12 · these estimates will be accurate; · reserves and other mineralization figures will be accurate; or · reserves or mineralization will be discovered or could be mined and processed profitably. Market prices for gold and other precious metals may render portions of our concessions uneconomic for development and production mining. Any material changes in estimates, or our ability to extract these reserves or mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have not established the presence of proven or probable reserves at any of our mineral properties or joint ventures. There can be no assurance that subsequent testing or future feasibility studies using our HGP technology will establish additional reserves at our joint venture properties. The failure to establish additional reserves could restrict our ability to successfully implement our strategies for long-term growth mining projects. The Good Ground prospecting exploration projects as well as other mining exploration and production projects are subject to risks including delays in completion and we may be unable to achieve anticipated production volume or manage cost increases. Completion of the development and start-up of the Good Ground projects as well as other mining projects, pilot processing to quantity processing of E-waste recovery production and ongoing emerging technology development are subject to various factors, including the performance of our joint venture partners, engineering and construction contractors, mining contractor, suppliers and consultants. Any delay in the performance of any one or more of the parties listed above could delay or prevent the development of Good Ground projects and other projects as currently planned. There can be no assurance: · when or whether the Good Ground prospecting projects, Uprightness reconnaissance project, Eternity reconnaissance project and other U.S. and Ghana mining projects will be completed and start-up will commence; · whether the resulting operations will achieve the anticipated production volume; or · that the construction costs and ongoing operating costs associated with the development of the these projects will not be higher than anticipated. We have never participated in developing or operating a mine or managing a significant mine development project nor have we managed a processing operation from pilot to full scale production. We cannot assure you that the start-up of HGP technology, STAMP program, HESS technology or development of EMP for commercialization will be completed at the cost and on the schedule predicted, or that gold and recoveries, production rates or anticipated capital or operating costs will be achieved. We believe that our joint venture partners will provide sufficient funds to complete the development of these projects and continue to seek additional commercially viable business relationships utilizing our technology. If the actual cost to complete the projects is significantly higher than currently expected, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to cover these costs or that we will be able to obtain alternative sources of financing to cover these costs. Unexpected cost increases, reduced gold and other precious metal prices or the failure to obtain necessary additional financing on acceptable terms, to complete the development of these projects on a timely basis, or to achieve anticipated production capacity, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 13 We depend on a limited number of mining projects which are not 100% owned by us. We anticipate that the majority, if not all, of any revenues for the next few years and beyond will be derived from the sale of metals mined at these projects as well as our ability to scale up E-Waste processing for revenue generation. Therefore, if we are unable to complete and successfully mine these projects, our ability to generate revenue and profits would be materially adversely affected. Gold City Inc. Joint Venture. The Company entered into a joint venture September 11, 2005 with its licensee, Gold City Inc. ("Gold City"), a privately held Nevada mining and exploration corporation that owns and controls gold mining sites in Nevada and Arizona. The Company received under the terms of Gold City's hydrometallurgical license a net smelter return of 8-12 percent of all gold and other minerals extracted, and a 5 percent share of all mechanically recovered coarse gold and nuggets. Gold City’s licenses cover the U.S., Mexico, Canada, South America, Australia, Asia and Africa. Under the terms of the joint venture, Gold City will provide up to $10 million to the Company in exchange for up to a total of 5 million shares of the Company’s restricted common stock and for up to a total of 50 percent of all profits generated by previously announced and future operations that have been financed directly with the funds provided for defined projects. These projects may include funds provided by Gold City for a) the U.S. production plant for the extraction and recovery of precious metals from E-waste and ore, b) programs for small scale miners at Ghana, c) large mining concessions in Ghana, and d) operation of mining sites in the U.S. to produce gold concentrate. In the event that Gold City does not provide the Company with the entire $10 million, it will receive a lower number of shares of Haber common stock and reduced profit participation. Thru February, 2008, Gold City has contributed $717,066 under this agreement and in turn has received from Haber a 15% share of Haber’s interest in its joint Venture with Etruscan and 1,000,000 shares of Haber stock of which 500,000 shares were issued in April, 2007 and 500,000 shares issued in October, 2007. In January, 2007 the Company’s wholly-owned Ghanaian subsidiary, Haber Mining Ghana Ltd., entered into a joint venture with Etruscan Resources Ghana Ltd. ("Etruscan Ghana"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Nova Scotia, Canada-based Etruscan Resources Inc., to explore 1,331 square kilometers of gold concessions in the Western and Brong Ahafo Regions of Ghana. Etruscan will manage the project and provide exploration and mining expertise on all the concessions. Etruscan has the option to increase its interest to 75 percent of the joint venture by investing an additional $2.5 million dollars over a period of three years. If this option is exercised, for every three dollars that Etruscan subsequently invests, Haber must contribute an additional dollar to the project in order to maintain a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Should the Company's participating interest drop below 10%, its interest shall be converted to a 5% net smelter return royalty. Our success will depend on our ability to manage our growth. As we increase our emerging technology and EMP development activity and shift from exploration to production mining and E-Waste production processing, we anticipate experiencing significant growth in our operations, which we expect to continue and accelerate as we plan to construct a large scale U.S. processing plant and install a pilot/commercial processing plant in the U.S., South America, Asia and Africa. This growth has created and will continue to create new positions and responsibilities for management personnel and will substantially increase demands on our operating and financial systems, especially those management personnel and systems that are located in Ghana. There can be no assurance that we will successfully meet these demands and manage our anticipated growth. The Company’s future performance will not only depend on managing the growth of our existing businesses but also on our ability to manage growth through acquisitions These activities, together with required adjustments to the demands of new markets, may strain the Company’s existing management, human and financial resources. To successfully manage growth, we will need to continue to identify additional qualified management and employees and we may not be able to do so. In addition, the nature and pace of our growth introduces risks associated with satisfying business relationships due to delays in reaching commercially viable performance utilizing our technology. If the Company fails to effectively manage growth, the Company’s business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our profitability will be affected by changes in the prices of metals. Our profitability and long-term viability depend, in large part, on the market price of gold and other precious metals. The market prices for these metals are volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: · global or regional consumption patterns; · supply of, and demand for, gold and other precious metals; · speculative activities; 14 · expectations for inflation; and · political and economic conditions. The aggregate effect of these factors on metals prices is impossible for us to predict. Decreases in metals prices in the past have delayed the development of the gold mining projects and could in the future adversely affect our ability to finance the exploration and development of our other properties, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that metals prices will not decline. The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the annual high and low gold bullion prices of the London Metals Exchange’s spot gold prices in U.S. dollars per ounce. Year Gold High Low 2007 833.30 636.90 2006 725.00 524.75 2005 536.50 411.10 2004 454.20 375.00 2003 417.25 319.90 2002 342.75 277.75 The exploration of mineral properties is highly speculative in nature, involves substantial expenditures and is frequently non-productive. Our future growth and profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to emerge from developmental stage technologies to commercial enterprises in the fields of ElectroMolecularPropulsion™ (EMP) and hydrometallurgical extraction. and to develop partnerships with the Company under a variety of possible business structures to utilize these technologies. The Company is also looking to enter into either joint ventures or licensing agreements with holders of gold ore deposits or to acquire gold concessions for its own portfolio. With ventures or agreements of this type, the Company would provide the technical expertise and proprietary processing technology needed to extract a number of both precious and non-precious minerals. Our strategy is to commercialize our HGP, HESS and EMP technology through multiple joint ventures and licensing agreements. Mineral exploration as well as new processes in E-waste processing and analytical separation processes are highly speculative in nature and are frequently non-productive. Substantial expenditures are required to: · establish gold ore reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques; · determine metal content and metallurgical recovery processes to extract metal from the ore; · construct, renovate or expand mining and processing facilities; - construct E-waste recovery facilities for quantity processing; and - develop, fabricate and produce equipment, chemical protocols and performance capabilities for separation technology competitive with conventional analytics 15 If our joint venture interests discover ore, it usually takes several years from the initial phases of exploration until production is possible. During this time, the economic feasibility of production may change. As a result of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that we will successfully enter into business partnerships to acquire additional mineral rights, or that our exploration programs will result in new proven and probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations at any of our properties. If our pilot HESS program proves to be commercially viable, it usually takes years to scale up such a pilot program to large scale quantity process of E-waste. If our EMP development initiatives are commercialized, it may also take years to market such products and processes to the life science industry. We consider partnerships from time to time that include the acquisition of operating or formerly operating mines. Our decisions to enter into licensing agreements and joint ventures to acquire these properties and utilize the Company’s technology are based on a variety of factors including historical operating results, estimates of and assumptions about future reserves, cash and other operating costs, metals prices and projected economic returns, and evaluations of existing or potential liabilities associated with the property and its operation. Our estimates and assumptions may turn out to be erroneous or incorrect. In addition, there is intense competition for attractive properties. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our acquisition efforts will result in profitable mining operations. Our profitability depends, in part, on actual economic returns and actual costs of processing gold ore and e-scrap, which may differ significantly from our estimates and involve unexpected problems and delays. None of our joint venture mineral properties, including those projects in the U.S. as well as Ghana, has an operating history upon which we can base estimates of future cash operating costs. Our decision to develop these projects are based on reconnaissance and prospecting feasibility studies, and decisions about the development of these projects as well as other projects in the future may also be based on such studies. Prospecting feasibility studies derive estimates of reserves, operating costs and project economic returns. Estimates of economic returns are based, in part, on assumptions about future metals prices. Our profitability will be affected by changes in the price of metals. Feasibility studies derive estimates of average cash operating costs based upon, among other things: · anticipated tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of ore to be mined and processed; · anticipated recovery rates of gold and other precious metals from the ore; · cash operating costs of comparable facilities and equipment as well as anticipated climatic conditions. 16 Actual cash operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those anticipated by our studies and estimates. There are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of any new mine or plant, including the current U.S ore and E-waste pilot program. These uncertainties include: · the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities and quantity processing of E-waste; · the availability and cost of skilled labor, power including climate changes impacting hydropower, water and transportation; · the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements; · the need to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental permits, and the timing of those permits; and · the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities including governmental, non-governmental and private funds from such sources as the World Bank to support programs such as the Strategic Abatement of Mercury and Poverty (STAMP) program. The costs, timing and complexities of processing plant construction and development are increased by the remote location of many mining properties, like the Ghana Good Ground, Uprightness and Eternity projects. It is common in new mining operations to experience unexpected problems and delays during exploration, development, construction and start-up at mines and mineral processing plants, and delays in the commencement of mineral production often occur. Further, mine construction and operation may be impacted by our relationships and standing within the communities in which we operate. While our environmentally friendly technology offers competitive advantages to conventional leaching processes using cyanide and mercury, accidents or events detrimental (or perceived to be detrimental) to the health and safety of our employees, or to the environment or the communities in which we operate using the new HGP technology, could negatively impact our operations and create unforeseen problems and delays. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our future development activities will result in profitable mining operations. Title to our mineral properties may be challenged. Our policy is to seek to confirm the validity of our rights to title to, or contract rights with respect to, each mineral property in which we and our joint venture partners have a material interest. However, we cannot guarantee that title to our properties will not be challenged. Title insurance generally is not available, and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure claim to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. We have not conducted surveys of all of the claims in which we hold direct or indirect interests and, therefore, the precise area and location of these claims may be in doubt. Accordingly, our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. In addition, we may be unable to operate our properties as permitted or to enforce our rights with respect to our properties. 17 We may lose rights to properties if we fail to meet payment requirements or development or production schedules and may have to stop reconnaissance and prospecting gold ore concession activities We and our joint venture partners may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. For example, we are obligated to make mining payments during a two year prospecting period to the Ghana government and incur minimum work program exploration costs for prospecting concessions to maintain our Etruscan joint venture concessions with Ghana’s Ministry of Lands, Forestry and Mines. If we fail to make these payments when they are due, our rights to the property may lapse. There can be no assurance that we will always make payments by the requisite payment dates. If we fail to comply with these obligations we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in exploration, development and production of mineral rights to a property. In some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. In addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. Some contracts with respect to our mineral properties require exploration, development or production schedules. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet any or all of the exploration, development or production schedules. In addition, our ability to transfer or sell our rights to some of our mineral properties requires governmental approvals or third party consents, which may not be granted. If we lose the rights to proprietary technology or mineral properties, we may need to stop reconnaissance and prospecting activities that could utilize our technology. We cannot insure against all of the risks associated with the mining industry. Our future customers are highly reliant on the mining industry. The business of mining is subject to a number of risks and hazards, including: · adverse environmental effects; · industrial accidents; · labor disputes; · technical difficulties due to unusual or unexpected geologic formations; · failures of pit walls; and · flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. 18 These risks can result in, among other things: · damage to, and destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities; · personal injury; · environmental damage; · delays in mining; · monetary losses; and · legal liability. Although we maintain, and intend to continue to maintain, insurance with respect to our operations and mineral properties within ranges of coverage consistent with industry practice, there can be no assurance that insurance will be available at economically feasible premiums. Insurance against environmental risks is not generally available. These environmental risks include potential liability for pollution or other disturbances resulting from mining exploration and production. In addition, not all risks associated with developing, producing and recovering gold and other precious metals are included in coverage, and some covered risks may result in liabilities which exceed policy limits. Further, we may elect to not seek coverage for all risks. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered, or covered at all, by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to fines or other penalties in connection with Internal Revenue Service or the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Currently we are delinquent in filing annual tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service which we intend to remedy in a timely fashion utilizing financial information compiled for this comprehensive five year filing. Since the financial statements were not available, the Company has not been able to file its federal and state income tax returns for the past six filing periods. The Company has been in communication with local representatives of the IRS in Massachusetts to keep them informed about the Company’s progress on completing its financial statements to facilitate preparation of past due tax returns. The Company plans to use its best efforts to complete all delinquent tax returns. Although the Company is incurring losses and has tax loss carryforwards, the Company may be subject to penalties and interest with the tax authorities because of the late tax returns. While our corporate governance initiatives need development currently increasing our risk of compliance to the best of our knowledge we are in compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 19 Our Good Ground, Uprightness and Eternity projects and our exploration activities are in a country with developing economies and are subject to the risks of political and economic instability associated with these countries. Our joint venture interests are currently conducting exploration activities in African and Latin American countries with developing economies, including Ghana, West Africa. These countries and other emerging markets in which we may conduct operations have from time to time experienced economic or political instability. We may be materially adversely affected by risks associated with conducting operations in countries with developing economies, including: · political instability and violence; · war and civil disturbance; · acts of terrorism; · expropriation or nationalization; · changing fiscal regimes; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · high rates of inflation; · underdeveloped industrial and economic infrastructure; and · unenforceability of contractual rights. 20 Changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in the prevailing political climate in any of the countries in which we conduct exploration and development activities could adversely affect our business. Our operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, among other things: · production restrictions; · price controls; · export and import controls; · income and other taxes; · maintenance of claims; · environmental legislation; · foreign ownership restrictions; · foreign exchange and currency controls; · labor; · welfare benefit policies; · land use; · land claims of local residents; · water use; and · mine safety. We cannot accurately predict the effect of these factors. In addition, legislation in the United States regulating foreign trade, investment and taxation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Our joint venture mining exploration projects may be adversely affected by changes in the Ghana Government’s policies toward the mining industry. To date, there have been no formal proposals to nationalize the mining industry. The government may, however, alter its current policies with respect to the mining industry if changes in government policy occur or are unable to complete exploration, development and operation of these projects, we could have substantial liabilities in connection with these projects in accordance with reconnaissance and prospecting concession work program commitments. We do not maintain political risk insurance to cover losses that we may incur as a result of nationalization, expropriation or similar events in Ghana. Although the economic and climatic conditions in Ghana have not caused any material adverse impact on our joint venture projects, political and economic uncertainties and instability may continue and may not be resolved successfully. The political, economic and climatic conditions may become more unstable and political and economic uncertainties may in the future have an adverse impact on the exploration, development or operations of the Ghana projects. Our activities are subject to foreign environmental laws and regulations that may materially adversely affect our future operations reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses We and our joint venture partners conduct mineral exploration and development activities primarily in the U.S and West Africa,, and are most active in Ghana, where the Good Ground, Uprightness and Eternity projects are located and in Nevada and Arizona where our U.S. joint venture project is located. Ghana laws and regulations control the exploration and mining of mineral properties and their effects on the environment, including air and water quality, mine reclamation, waste handling and disposal, the protection of different species of flora and fauna and the preservation of lands. These laws and regulations will require the Company to acquire permits and other authorizations for certain activities. In Ghana permitting and authorization processes while established may be subject to change. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire necessary permits or authorizations on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in acquiring permits or authorization have occurred in the recent past and could increase the exploration and development cost of our projects and could delay the commencement of production. We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. Environmental legislation in many countries is evolving in a manner which will likely require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our technology, processes and products or increase our costs of producing them. In Ghana, enforcement activities and strategies are under development, and thus may not be predictable. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or adopted in the future that may encourage utilization of our environmentally friendly HGP process or how future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. Compliance with more stringent laws and regulations, as well as potentially more vigorous enforcement policies or regulatory agencies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may (1) necessitate significant capital outlays, (2) cause us to delay, terminate or otherwise change our intended activities with respect to one or more projects and (3) materially adversely affect our future operations. Our exploration and development properties are located in historic mining districts where prior owners may have caused environmental damage that may not be known to us or to the regulators. In most cases, we have not sought complete environmental assessments of our mineral properties and have not conducted comprehensive reviews of the environmental laws and regulations in every jurisdiction in which we own or control mineral properties. To the extent we are subject to environmental requirements or liabilities, the cost of compliance with these requirements and satisfaction of these liabilities would reduce our net cash flow and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to fund fully the cost of remediation of any environmental condition, we may be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remediation. 22 We compete against larger and more experienced companies and if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. The Company faces significant competition in exploration, mining and metallurgical extraction as well as development of separation technology applicable to medical device analytics. Other companies, including Imperial Chemical Industries and Metalgeselshalt, represent the chemical market against which the Haber Gold process would contend. The Company’s HESS technology applies to an emerging market for E-waste and, the Company remains the sole world source for the electrokinetic technology, known as EMP. The competitors are larger than our Company and have greater access to capital than we do. These organizations may be better known than we are and a record for operating profitably as a business enterprise. The Company may not be able to compete successfully against these organizations or any alliances they have formed or may form. The mining industry is intensely competitive. Many of the largest mining companies are primarily producers of base metals, and may become interested in the types of gold deposits on which we are focused because these deposits typically are polymetallic, containing significant quantities of base metals including zinc, lead and copper. Many of these companies have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than we or our joint venture partners have. We may encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in our efforts to acquire mineral properties and hire experienced mining professionals. Increased competition in our business could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. We may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. To remain competitive, we must develop new technologies, processes and products and continue to enhance our existing technology, processes and products. We anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. In addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of licensed technology and joint ventures endeavors. Increased competition in the future may adverse affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition to the competition we currently face, it is possible that companies that have not traditionally competed in these markets may enter our markets as gold and other precious metals gain value in the marketplace. For instance, companies that we currently have business relationships with may decide to pursue other funding interests that offer greater commercial certainty. In addition, consolidation of our competitors may create stronger competitors, which could introduce competing technology. The Company operates in fragmented markets that are targets for consolidation. If the Company’s competitors combine, they may increase marketing capabilities, purchasing power and financial resources, as well as impact pricing flexibility allowing them to gain market share. This increased competition could result in lower profit margins, substantial pricing pressure and reduced market share for us. Our ability to obtain dividends or other distributions from our subsidiary may be subject to restrictions imposed by law, foreign currency exchange regulations and our financing arrangements. We conduct, and will continue to conduct, our operations through a subsidiary. Our ability to obtain dividends or other distributions from our subsidiary may be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which the subsidiary operates. Our subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us is also subject to their having sufficient funds to do so. If our subsidiary is unable to pay dividends or make other distributions, our growth may be inhibited unless we are able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms. In the event of the subsidiary’s liquidation, we may lose all or a portion of our investment in that subsidiary. 23 We may not be able to raise the funds necessary to explore and develop our mineral properties and finance other projects. Although we believe that our joint venture interests have sufficient amounts to fund the expected cost of exploring, developing and constructing the Ghana projects, we will need additional external financing to a) fund the exploration and development of our other mineral properties, b) finance scale up of E-waste facilities for large scale quantity processing, and c) fund development and commercialization of EMP separation technology and other emerging technology.. Sources of external financing may include joint ventures, bank borrowings and future debt and equity offerings. There can be no assurance that such future financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The failure to obtain financing would have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and our results of operations and financial condition. The mineral properties that we are likely to develop are expected to require significant capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the financing necessary to retain our rights to, or to begin or sustain production at, our mineral properties. We may be unable to comply with the terms and covenants of our Ghanaian concession projects. In January 2007, in order to finance exploration of the four Good Ground prospecting concessions as well as Uprightness and Eternity reconnaissance concessions in Ghana, our Ghana subsidiary entered into a joint venture with Etruscan providing $700,000 initially for equal interests in the venture with an option to provide an additional $2.5 million increasing Etruscan’s interest to 75%. If this option is exercised, for every three dollars that Etruscan subsequently invests, the Company must contribute an additional dollar to the project in order to maintain a 25 percent interest in the joint venture. Since the Company currently has no operations or source of funds to contribute such amounts if the Company's participating interest drops below 10%, its interest shall be converted to a 5% net smelter return royalty. We depend on the services of key executives. If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. We are dependent on the services of key executives particularly our seasoned executive team including our president and chief financial officer as well as a small number of highly skilled and experienced executives and experienced technical leaders in the fields of engineering and chemistry focused on the commercial development of the Company’s technology. Due to the relatively small size of the Company, our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel using share based compensation is essential for the commercial development of the Company’s technology The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development, start-up and operation of the commercial projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our technology development business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows The competition for these employees is intense and we do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees. If we do not develop commercially viable technologies in a timely manner, we may lose our ability to license technology to sustain our core technology business and attract capital resources for commercialization of existing technology. We license our technology in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. Many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers. Our proprietary technology could be replicated or obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or sell products for which the market demand from customers is extremely limited and commercially not viable, in which case we may not achieve our revenue growth targets. The success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: 24 • accurately anticipate customer needs, • innovate and develop new technologies and applications, • successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, • price our products competitively and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and • differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings. In addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. For example, some of our license and joint venture agreements a) depend on our partner’s ability to explore, develop and produce with the support of their funding, b) depend on our ability to provide a certain ratio of matched funding, and c) depend on the option of utilizing our technology in lieu of conventional technology. We may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. We have in the past, and may in the future, supplement our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing technology processes and products. However, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, including: • competition among buyers and licensees, • the high valuations of businesses and technologies, • the need for regulatory and other approval, and • our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. Some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable. Accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. For these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we must improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. We may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, or cultural differences. To finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. We may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. 25 We may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. Protecting the proprietary nature of our technology is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. The original patents covering the EMP technology, which were granted to Mr. Haber in the US. and 16 foreign countries and assigned to the Company, expired in 1996. Other than the expired patents covering EMP technology, the Company does not own any other United States and foreign patents. Patent applications when filed, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. Similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. For our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not have adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. Third parties may also challenge the validity of any issued patents, may circumvent or “design around” patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. In addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. We may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. Claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the United States or other countries. In addition to patent protection filed or intended to be filed, the Company expects to rely to a material extent on selected un–patented proprietary know–how with respect to its various technologies. However, there can be no assurances that others will not independently develop such know–how or otherwise obtain access to the Company's know–how despite the Company's efforts to maintain its confidentiality, which includes obtaining secrecy agreements from its employees. Our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate including: a) gold mining exploration, development and production utilizing our HGP technology, b) E-waste recovery of precious metals using our HESS technology, c) EMP development and commercialization for chemical separation analytics and d) emerging technology in the areas of separation science, extractive metallurgy and medical diagnostics, we cannot reliably predict future sales and profitability. Changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. A high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development, pilot plant activities and administrative costs. Thus, small increases in uncontrollable expenses could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: • demand for and market acceptance of our technology in the mining and exploration industry, E-waste recovery industry and medical device industry • competitive pressures resulting in lower smeltering returns and royalties , • adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the technology niches in which we do business, • adverse changes in mining and life science industries on which we are particularly dependent, 26 • changes in the R&D technology development cycle relative to the commercial life cycle of the developed technology, processes and products, • delays or problems in the introduction of new technology, processes and products, • our competitors’ announcement or introduction of new technological innovation, processes, products or services, • increased costs of raw materials or supplies, and • changes in the volume of project expenditures or timing of project priorities. If we are unable to a) process an adequate quantity of gold or E-waste to yield sufficient quantities of gold and precious metals, or b) produce sufficient quantities of EMP equipment to meet our customers’ demands, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. We have an expanding global representation with joint venture interests in the U.S. and Canada and licensing agreements spanning the Americas and Africa as well as representation in Australia and South America. Each of these initiatives faces risks to its exploration, development and production capacity that may relate to natural disasters, labor relations or regulatory compliance. In addition, in any of these initiatives, we and our joint venture and licensing interests may not manage the exploration, development and production processes at expected levels, we may fail to anticipate or act on the need to increase the production capacity, or we may be unable to quickly resolve licensing agreements and technical exploration, development and production issues that arise from time to time. Any of these risks could cause our revenue growth to be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the United States mining and exploration industry or those of other countries including Ghana, West Africa’s Minerals Commission and Ministry of Lands, Forestry and Mines and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to cease exploration, development and production of gold ore Some of the products produced by the Company for the Life Sciences Tools and Services industry may be subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and similar international agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. If we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. . If the Company markets its EMP instruments for use in clinical applications, blood analyzers and other medical devices, it will be subject to regulation by the Bureau of Medical Devices of the United States Food and Drug Administration. Economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international revenue. 27 Because we sell our technology, processes and products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Revenue originating outside the United States is expected to represent a significant portion of our total sales in future fiscal periods. We anticipate that proceeds from international mining will represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. In addition our joint venture interests include considerable mineral properties located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates, • changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, • Longer and more costly transportation cycles for ore shipped to the U.S for processing in lieu of locally processed ore • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, • differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries and state jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax • differing business practices associated with foreign operations, • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, • differing labor laws and changes in those laws, • differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, and • differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if exploration activities result in the impairment of one or more of the four Good Ground prospecting concessions or two reconnaissance concessions represented by our equity investment in the Etruscan Haber Joint Venture Ltd As of May 31, 2007, our total assets of $980,701 included a $523,386 equity investment in the Etruscan joint venture. The equity investment in the Etruscan joint venture consists principally of property mineral rights to four Good Ground prospecting concessions, and two reconnaissance concessions for Uprightness and Eternity mineral rights claims. The prospecting concessions have a two year renewable term and the reconnaissance concessions have one year renewable term. Should surface reconnaissance concessions or subsurface prospecting concessions prove that gold and base metals mineralization does not exist in sufficient quantities in the area to warrant further exploration and development, the equity investment may be considered impaired to the extent the asset is allocated to the property mineral rights that warrant no further exploration or development. 28 Our results of operation will be adversely affected if the net realizable value of inventory is determined to be lower than the carrying cost of inventory. As of May 31, 2007, our current assets of $318,112 consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents included a $20,395 inventory of E-waste. Management expects to fully recover the carrying value of the E-waste inventory. Should processing costs exceed projections and gold and precious metals recovery fall short of expectations as determined by pilot plant operations the inventory may be written down off or written down to net realizable value. Adverse changes in our business or the failure to grow our Life Sciences Tools and Services business may also result in impairment charges to the extent any equipment may be dedicated to such R&D activities. Changes in government policy regarding the mining and exploration industry could significantly alter the mining and exploration market and harm our business. The Company’s business depends heavily on spending by participants in the mining and exploration industry, which is a regulated industry and subject to changing political and economic influences that may affect our markets and the markets of our customers. Regulatory change to the mining and exploration industry as well as the separation science field could result from, among other things: · government regulation that affects the manner in which exploration or production mining occurs especially as it relates to the health and safety of its workforce; · government regulation that discourages or restricts investment in these speculative and volatile markets; · Regulations affecting companies’ patent protection of medical devices; and · Reductions in government funding for programs such as the Strategic Abatement of Mercury and Poverty (STAMP). Structural changes in the mining and exploration industry and life science industry could adversely affect our business. The mining and exploration industry is expected to change significantly in an effort to improve environmental and employee safety. However, the timing and impact of developments by county in the mining and exploration industry are difficult to predict. Changes to the industries could result from, among other things: · Accelerated consolidation of industry participants; · Changes in technology in the areas of separation science, extractive metallurgy and medical diagnostics · A decrease in the number of medical devices coming to market, The markets for the Company’s technology, processes and products may cease to exist at current levels, and we may not have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. 29 Compliance with evolving governmental regulations could increase our operating costs and create potential liability. The regulatory environment surrounding most segments of the mining and exploration, and life science industries is complex. While we monitor our compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we and our customers are subject to Complex regulatory frameworks, and our systems may not ensure compliance in every instance. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations applicable to our business, we could become ineligible to continue with certain projects from exploration and development to commercialization. In addition, we could be forced to expend considerable resources, including management’s time and energy, responding to an investigation or other enforcement action. Further, implementation of new regulations or modifications to existing regulations may increase costs of compliance, require a termination of certain activities or otherwise materially harm our business and results of operations. Further changes to existing licensing requirements in any country or state could prevent us from exploring, developing and utilizing our technology for the extractive marketplace. Government and private initiatives to support the adoption of technology may encourage additional companies or government agencies to compete with us. There are currently numerous federal, state and private initiatives and studies seeking environmentally friendly initiatives along with improved safety in mining and exploration as well as E-waste recovery and medical device applications for the life sciences industry. These initiatives may encourage more companies to develop applications and services that compete with us. The effect that these initiatives may have on the Company’s business is difficult to predict, and we may not be able to adequately address the risks or opportunities created by these initiatives. The Company is particularly dependent on our joint venture partners for exploration and mining expertise as well as funding. Etruscan Resources Inc. is a diversified Canadian junior mining company focused on acquiring dominant land positions in district scale gold belts within Africa. Etruscan is an emerging gold producer and holds large strategic land positions in a number of gold belts covering over 10,000 square kilometers in five countries in West Africa. The common shares of Etruscan are traded on the TSX Exchange under the symbol "EET". The Company is dependent on Etruscan through its joint venture to explore the Good Ground, Uprightness and Eternity concessions in Ghana, West Africa as well as provide up to an additional $2.5 million in funding. Gold City Inc. is a privately held Nevada mining and exploration corporation that owns and controls gold mining claims in Nevada and Arizona. Gold City Inc. Joint Venture. The Company entered into a joint venture September 11, 2005 with its licensee, Gold City Inc. ("Gold City"), a privately held Nevada mining and exploration corporation that owns and controls gold mining sites in Nevada and Arizona. The Company received under the terms of Gold City's hydrometallurgical license a net smelter return of 8-12 percent of all gold and other minerals extracted, and a 5 percent share of all mechanically recovered coarse gold and nuggets. Gold City’s licenses cover the U.S., Mexico, Canada, South America, Australia, Asia and Africa. Under the terms of the joint venture, Gold City will provide up to $10 million to the Company in exchange for up to a total of 5 million shares of the Company’s restricted common stock and for up to a total of 50 percent of all profits generated by previously announced and future operations that have been financed directly with the funds provided for defined projects. These projects may include funds provided by Gold City for a) the U.S. production plant for the extraction and recovery of precious metals from E-waste and ore, b) programs for small scale miners at Ghana, c) large mining concessions in Ghana, and d) operation of mining sites in the U.S. to produce gold concentrate. In the event that Gold City does not provide the Company with the entire $10 million, it will receive a lower number of shares of Haber common stock and reduced profit participation. Thru February, 2008, Gold City has contributed $717,066 under this agreement and in turn has received from Haber a 15% share of Haber’s interest in its joint Venture with Etruscan and 1,000,000 shares of Haber stock of which 500,000 shares were issued in April, 2007 and 500,000 shares issued in October, 2007. In addition, the success of our business depends, in part, upon how successful we are in maintaining our relationships with our joint venture partners. Our inability to receive continuing funding from these relationships could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology and continue to develop emerging technology as well as result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company cannot assure you that they will be able to maintain its relationship with either Etruscan or Gold City. The Company derives substantial funding for their exploration, mining and extraction recovery projects from our strategic relationships with the Etruscan and Gold City. The success of each of the Etruscan and Gold City projects depends on our ability to maintain our strategic relationships with these entities. Our business could be negatively impacted not only as a result of the loss of funding attributable to these mining and extraction recovery projects, but also as a result of the impact that a deteriorating relationship with either of these two entities could have on our reputation generally and our relationships with other exploration, mining and extraction industry relationships. Any failure to maintain these relationships could, therefore, result in a substantial impediment to the development of new business relationships to further commercial utilization of the Company’s existing technology and negatively impact development of emerging technology for future commercialization. 30 The success of our E-waste or electronic scrap system (HESS) pilot project and concurrent development of Aladdin machine is dependent on our ability to reach scale-up levels for quantity processing of e-scrap metals. The Company opted to design new specialized processing machinery that takes full advantage of the unique properties of the Company's hydrometallurgical technology. As a result of these efforts, the Company has developed components for a novel intermittent flow processing line for e-scrap and ores called the Aladdin process. The new design incorporates a unique method of transport, extraction, filtration and recovery. A pilot machine has been constructed and successfully tested during short production runs. Successful operational results will result in a large full capacity unit being built for commercial production. While the Company has designed made-to-order specialized processing machinery, start-up and production through put may not reach the levels required to support the Company’s large scale quantity processing plans for e-scrap. Even if we are able to implement a large scale E-waste facility, we may not be able to operate at normal levels for a substantial period of time. Such delays or shut down would substantially impair operations and profitability Consolidation of participants in the areas of separation science, extractive metallurgy and medical diagnostics industries could cause us to lose business. Certain of the Company’s markets have in the past been and may in the future be involved in mergers or other consolidating events with other companies in the field. If these parties engage in a merger, we could lose those potential business relationships if the resulting company decides to work with a competitor instead of us. Further, the fewer companies there are that require the technology we offer, the fewer potential customers there will be for the Company’s technology, processes and products. The Company may not be able to continue to obtain property mineral rights or continue to establish licensing arrangements for utilization of Company technology. Continued interest in our technology depends upon our ability to quantity process at commercial production levels. If the Company technology is unable to achieve those levels cost efficiently for any reason, the value of certain of the Company’s technology, processes and products could diminish and interest in our innovative technologies in the areas of separation science, extractive metallurgy and medical diagnostics could be adversely affected. Joint ventures and licensing agreements that the Company has made or may make in the future may consume significant resources and may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. The Company has entered into licensing and joint venture agreements with Etruscan and Gold City. The Company is selectively pursuing strategic business relationships currently. These business relationships could further dilute equity interests in the Company and result in additional operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The business relationships in the form of licensing agreements and joint ventures may also involve numerous risks, including: · Difficulties managing multiple projects or in realizing project efficiencies and cost savings; · Diversion of management’s time from existing operations; and 31 · Inaccurate assessment of assets and liabilities and exposure to undisclosed or unforeseen liabilities related to these business relationships including liabilities for failure to comply with agreement terms. The Company is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Because we are a public company, we are subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, public companies to have and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures to ensure timely disclosure of material information and have management review the effectiveness of those controls on a quarterly basis. It also requires public companies to have and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation of financial statements and have management review the effectiveness of those controls on an annual basis. Our ability to comply with these requirements has not yet been assessed, and therefore our controls and procedures likely will be less elaborate than would be the case if we represented that we are in compliance. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that publicly-held companies comply with certain corporate governance standards, including standards relating to the independence of a company's board of directors. We are subject to these requirements and do not maintain governance arrangements that would be compliant with the prescribed standards but intend to do so for future periods. As a non-accelerated filer, the Company is not required to have an independent auditor attest to the effectiveness of such internal controls as of May 31, 2007. The Company’s available cash flow is limited which may affect its ability to operate as a business. As a result of the joint venture with Etruscan, the Company’s cash position increased as of May 31, 2007 to more than $269,000. As these funds are utilized for R&D including pilot plant activities and machinery as well as general and administrative costs, the Company may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and new business relationships for payment of the Company’s liabilities in cash and continue to settle certain obligation on a share basis While the Company seeks to generate sustainable revenue, financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy obligations with respect to ongoing R&D and pilot plant activities as well as general and administrative costs including purchase of material and services · limit the Company’s ability to contribute to the Etruscan Haber Joint Venture Ltd for exploration and mining projects in Ghana that requires the Company to contribute an additional dollar to the venture for every three dollars that Etruscan subsequently invests;; · place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less cash flow restrictions and therefore able to take advantage of opportunities that our cash restricted business prevents us from exploiting; and · limit the Company’s ability to borrow amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company does not have sufficient earnings to service operating costs, we may be required to sell assets, borrow money or sell additional securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. 32 Despite our lack of cash flow from operations, the Company may still be able to incur debt. This could further exacerbate the risks by leveraging the Company’s equity with debt. We may incur indebtedness in the future. The indebtedness incurred could include covenants with operating ratio’s, debt to equity ratio’s and other financial ratios as well as requiring compliance with restrictions on capital expenditures, future business relationships and other restrictive covenants. If debt is added the risks that the Company faces would be increased. Repayment of any Company debt would likely depend on cash flow sources generated by our commercialization of certain technologies. Our subsidiary and our joint venture interests are a significant portion of our assets and are not encumbered by debt. Repayment of any Company’s indebtedness would depend on the generation of cash flow from commercialization of the technology to make such cash available for debt service as well as future pay down of principal. Our subsidiaries and joint ventures may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Our subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiary. In the event that the Company does not receive distributions from our subsidiary, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on indebtedness should the Company incur such debt. The Company has been delinquent in filing reports with the SEC which is being remedied with the filing of this comprehensive 10-K report. Additional filings will be needed including a 10-Q for the periods ended August 31, 2007 and November 30, 2007 which the Company will make its best efforts to file in the near future. The Company has not been filing annual and quarterly reports or other information with the SEC in recent years. While every effort is being made to be fully compliant with SEC filing requirements, the content of the reports is burdensome for the Company and acquiring and paying for the necessary resources may impact our ability to sustain full reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the future. In addition, the Company’s ability to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may also be beyond the resources available to the Company. See "Risks Related to Our Business — The Company currently needs to assess its ability to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002." Related parties control interests in excess of 5% of the Company’s equity holders which may conflict with other equity holder interests. Two individual shareholders, Albert B. Conti, CEO, Chairman and Director; and Peter D’Angelo, EVP, CFO, Secretary and Director; each beneficially own more than 5% of the Company’s common equity units. Additionally, Albert B. Conti, Peter R. D’Angelo and Norman Haber the former Chairman and CEO each own over 5% of the Company’s non-consolidated affiliate, Gold City, Inc., a mining and exploration Company. This figure includes the holdings of family members of the Conti, D’Angelo and Haber families. Their interests and the interests of their family members may not, in all cases, be aligned with the interests of other equity holders. For example, these equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though these transaction risks to other equity holders result in a more highly leveraged Company or significantly change the nature of the business operations or strategy. In addition, if the Company encounters financial difficulties, or is unable to pay Company obligations as they become due, the interests of our equity holders might conflict with these related party equity holders. In that situation, for example, these related party holders might want the Company to raise additional equity from our new business relationships or other investors diluting existing equity interests or they may choose to take other actions such as selling Company assets. Additionally, these related parties may make investments in companies from time to time in the future with controlling interests in businesses engaged in industries that complement or directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of the Company’s business. So long as these related parties continues to indirectly own a significant amount of the Company’s equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, it may continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control Company decisions. In accordance with accounting pronouncements Gold City is a non-consolidated affiliate of the Company. The Company licensed technology to Gold City in consideration for cash and stock with an initial share distribution of 800,000 shares recorded as an Investment in Gold City stock valued at $30,000 and a subsequent performance distribution of 1,200,000 shares valued at $45,000. The fair value of the Investment in Gold City stock was written off, as Gold City has been experiencing operating losses, in proportion to the interest in Gold City that never exceeded 18.0%. Under the terms of the joint venture, Gold City will provide up to $10 million to the Company in exchange for up to a total of 5 million shares of the Company’s restricted common stock and for up to a total of 50 percent of all profits generated by previously announced and future operations that have been financed directly with the funds provided for defined projects. These projects may include funds provided by Gold City for a) the U.S. production plant for the extraction and recovery of precious metals from E-waste and ore, b) programs for small scale miners at Ghana, c) large mining concessions in Ghana, and d) operation of mining sites in the U.S. to produce gold concentrate. In the event that Gold City does not provide the Company with the entire $10 million, it will receive a lower number of shares of Haber common stock and reduced profit participation. The Company’s directors, executive officers and related stockholders as a group also hold beneficial interests in Gold City that never exceeded 20.8% and non-executive officers of the company and their family members hold an additional 7.5% interest in Gold City. The Company and its related party interests have held aggregate interests up to 46.3% of outstanding shares of Gold City. Because of the limited number of shareholder in Gold City there is sufficient concentration of shares by other Gold City shareholders to exercise greater control than the Company and its affiliate interests in Gold City. At no time during the reporting periods did the company and its officers and their families combined own more than 50% of the common shares of Gold City. Gold City has very limited financial resources at this time but is searching additional funding, as stated previously, Gold City has invested $717,066 in its Joint Venture with Haber and has received for that investment a 15% share of Haber interest in the Etruscan JV and 1,000,000 shares of Haber stock. 33 RISKS RELATING TO THE SECURITIES MARKETS AND OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The market prices for securities of technology related companies have been volatile in recent years and our stock price could fluctuate significantly. Our common stock has continued to be thinly traded as a publicly company for many years. Likewise, the market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations for many years. These fluctuations could continue. Factors that could affect our stock price include: • Strategic moves by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions • Economic and stock market conditions generally and specifically as they may impact participants providing technology to the mining and exploration, and life science industries • Earnings and other announcements by, and changes in market evaluations of, participants in the technology industry • Changes in value of gold and other precious metals realizable from production and recovery technology • Announcements or implementation by us or our competitors of technical innovations or new products, and In addition, the securities of many companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years, often unrelated to the companies’ operating performance. Specifically, market prices for securities of technology related companies in the development stage have frequently reached elevated levels. These levels may not be sustainable and may not bear any relationship to current or the future operating performance of these development stage technology companies. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law as well as related party interests may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the value of the shares of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation filed November 9, 1984. as amended May 23, 2006 to increase authorized shares from 200 million to 230 million as well as bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include the authority of our Board of Directors with the right to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. The Company has not transferred risks to unrelated third parties through insurance. The Company does not carry any insurance such as property, casualty and general liability insurance and is exposed to risks of future material loss related to torts; theft of, damage to, expropriation of, or destruction of assets; business interruption; errors or omissions; injuries to employees; or acts of God. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has not filed financial statements with the SEC since the third quarter of the fiscal year ended May 31, 2003. A letter dated December 19, 2007 to the company from the SEC addressing reporting responsibilities noted the Company is not in compliance with its reporting requirements. The SEC requested the Company file all required reports within fifteen days or the company may be subject to an administrative proceeding to revoke the registration. The Company has been in communication with the SEC early in January, 2008 siting a potential open issue related to the possible consolidation of a joint venture partner company. Appropriate data was requested from the affiliate to assess the accounting treatment and additional time was requested to the SEC to review the privately held affiliate data and finalize accounting for the comprehensive filing. The filing will include the required late reports for the years ended May 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The filing will also include quarterly financial information for the three month periods ended August 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The three month and six month periods ended November 30, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and the three month and nine month periods ended February 28, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and February 29, 2004. The Company and the SEC have agreed that it can file one comprehensive filing to satisfy the SEC required reports for the periods above. The SEC and Haber originally agreed to file this document no later than August 31, 2007. Since that date the SEC has granted Haber three additional extensions for the required financial data to September 30, 2007, October 31, 2007 and most recently November 30, 2007. The Company is including the required comprehensive filing with this report. The Company is also delinquent in filing its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the three month period ended August 31, 2007 and for the six month period ended November 30, 2007. The Company expects will use its best efforts to file these reports in the Company’s fiscal fourth quarter. 34 