Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the common stock of any company involves a degree of risk. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, and all other information included in this Annual Report 6 on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase the Company’s common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to management or that management currently deems immaterial may also become important factors that may harm Ryan’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of any one or more of the following risks could harm Ryan’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and shareholders may lose part or all of their investment. Our family-style buffet restaurants operate in a very competitive environment. Our restaurants operate in a highly competitive industry comprised of a large number of restaurants, including national and regional restaurant chains and franchised restaurant operations, as well as locally-owned, independent restaurants. Price, restaurant location, food quality, service and attractiveness of facilities are important aspects of competition, and the competitive environment is often affected by factors beyond a particular restaurant management’s control, including changes in the public’s taste and eating habits, population and traffic patterns and economic conditions. Therefore, new competitors may emerge at any time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or earnings. We are dependent on attracting and retaining qualified managers and employees while controlling labor costs. We are extremely dependent upon the availability of qualified restaurant personnel. Availability of staff varies widely from location to location. If restaurant management and staff turnover trends increase, we would suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting and retaining replacement personnel. Moreover, we could suffer from significant indirect costs, including restaurant disruptions due to management changeover and potential delays in new store openings due to staff shortages. Competition for qualified employees exerts upward pressure on wages paid to attract such personnel, resulting in higher labor costs, together with greater expense to recruit and train them. Many of our employees are hourly workers whose wages are likely to be impacted by an increase in the federal or state minimum wage. Proposals have been made at federal and state levels to increase minimum wage levels. An increase in the minimum wage may require an increase or create pressure to increase the pay scale for our employees. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase our labor costs. We are dependent on timely delivery of fresh ingredients by our suppliers. Our restaurant operations are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand and economic and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. Historically, when operating expenses increased due to inflation or increases in food costs, we generally have been able to offset these higher costs by increasing our menu prices. However, we may not be able to recover increased costs in the future because competition may limit or even prohibit such future increases. If the variety or quality of our food products declines due to the lack or lower quality of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients and similar factors, customer traffic may decline and negatively affect our sales. We have contracted with a third-party distributor for the delivery of approximately 90% of the food and other products used in our restaurants. If this contract was suddenly and unexpectedly terminated, supply costs could increase and disruptions in distribution could occur during the transition to another third-party distributor. General economic factors may adversely affect our results of operations. National, regional and local economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles or a worsening economy, could adversely affect disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Unfavorable changes in these factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce customer traffic in some or all of our restaurants, impose practical limits on our pricing and increase our costs, any of 7 which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The impact of inflation on food, beverages, labor, utilities and other aspects of our business can negatively affect our results of operations. Although we attempt to offset inflation through periodic menu price increases, cost controls and incremental improvement in operating margins, we may not be able to completely do so which could negatively affect our results of operations. We face the risk of adverse publicity and litigation relating to food-borne illness, employment and other issues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We may from time to time be the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. While the risk of food-borne illness is real, whether it results from improper operations, new diseases (such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or “mad cow disease”) or from chemicals in certain food products, this risk would generally only affect a limited number of our restaurants. As soon as any food issue became known to us, those food items that were potentially at risk would be no longer served to customers. While the risk of food-borne illness or injury would likely be localized, the risk of the adverse publicity that might result from such an incident is more generalized and accordingly much greater. The general public’s response to adverse publicity relating to Ryan’s, Fire Mountain or another buffet restaurant brand could materially adversely affect a significant number of our restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations underlying the adverse publicity are valid or whether we are liable. In addition, we are from time to time subject to employee claims alleging injuries, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Currently, we are the subject of a collective-action lawsuit that is described in Item 3 (“Legal Proceedings”) of this Form 10-K. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our financial performance. A significant judgment for any claim(s) could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our planned sales growth through new, relocated and converted stores may not provide acceptable results. Our ability to open and profitably operate restaurants is subject to various risks such as the identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations, the negotiation of acceptable terms for new locations, the need to obtain the required government permits (including zoning approvals) on a timely basis, the need to comply with other regulatory requirements, the availability of necessary contractors and subcontractors, the availability of construction materials and labor, the ability to meet construction schedules and budgets, increases in labor and building materials costs, changes in weather or other acts of God that could result in construction delays and adversely affect the results of one or more restaurants for an indeterminate amount of time. At each potential location, we compete with other restaurants and retail businesses for desirable development sites, construction contractors, management personnel, hourly employees and other resources. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower than anticipated revenues and earnings in future periods. We face risks associated with government regulations. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. The development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local authorities relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards, building codes, federal and state laws governing our relationships with employees (including the Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, employment tax rates, family leave, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and citizenship 8 requirements), federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission, and disposal of hazardous materials. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore, have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Inclement weather can adversely affect our financial performance. Although we generally maintain property and casualty insurance to protect against property damage caused by casualties and natural disasters, inclement weather, flooding, hurricanes and other acts of God can adversely impact our sales in several ways. For example, severe winter weather typically discourages potential customers from dining out. In addition, a restaurant that is damaged by a natural disaster can be inoperable for a significant amount of time due to either physical damage or to a shortage of employees resulting from a relocation of the general population. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Information as to Classes of Similar Products or Services The Company operates in only one industry segment. All significant revenues and pre-tax earnings relate to retail sales of food and beverages to the general public through Company-operated restaurants. At December 28, 2005, the Company had no operations outside the continental United States. 