Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to the Company A significant stockholder has the ability to substantially influence the Company and it may conflict with or differ from other stockholders. Hallwood Financial Limited (“Hallwood Financial”), a corporation controlled by the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Anthony J. Gumbiner and members of his family, owns approximately 66% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of March 30, 2012. Accordingly, Mr. Gumbiner can exert substantial influence over the affairs of the Company. The Company’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The Company is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, loss of their services could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Any failure by Brookwood to pay dividends or tax sharing payments to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. As a holding company, the Company is dependent on Brookwood to receive the cash necessary to fund its ongoing operations and its obligations. At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $6,700,000 of cash and cash equivalents (of which $1,800,000 was used in February 2012 to settle the Hallwood Energy litigation, except the Adversary Proceeding, as discussed in Item 3. Legal Proceedings). Any failure to receive from Brookwood cash required by the Company, including cash required to pay or appeal any judgment or pay any settlement of the Adversary Proceeding, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See “—Litigation and costs related thereto could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows”, below. 6 Table of Contents Brookwood’s ability to pay dividends and tax sharing payments or make advances to the Company is contingent upon Brookwood’s compliance with loan covenants and other factors. Brookwood’s ability to pay dividends and tax sharing payments or make advances to the Company are contingent upon Brookwood’s compliance with the loan covenants in the New Revolving Credit Facility with BB&T and are limited in amount by terms of the loan agreement. This limitation could adversely affect the Company if these payments were restricted. Additionally, any payment of a dividend, tax sharing payment or advance to the Company by Brookwood is dependent on a number of other factors, including approval of Brookwood’s board of directors, Brookwood’s ability to meet the requirements of the Delaware corporate laws for payment of dividends, and compliance with other applicable laws and requirements. In addition, a significant adverse judgment against Brookwood in the Nextec Applications, Inc. litigation matter (See Item 3. Legal Proceedings) could adversely affect Brookwood’s ability to make payments or advances to the Company. As a result, no assurance can be given that these amounts will be available when needed or required. Litigation and costs related thereto could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is involved in certain litigation matters, as described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, and the court in the Adversary Proceeding described in that Item has issued Proposed Findings proposing that the United States District Court award damages against the Company totaling approximately $18,700,000 plus prejudgment and postjudgment interest and attorneys’ fees as may be requested and awarded pursuant to a subsequent motion. The Proposed Findings (including the proposed monetary awards) are not final. The Company and each of the other parties has objected to various aspects of the Proposed Findings to the United States District Court, which will review the portions to which objections have been raised on a de novo basis. The Company intends to vigorously defend against the entry of any final judgment and would likely appeal any adverse final judgment to the extent it is able. The ability to appeal any adverse final judgment would be dependent on a number of factors, including the ability to post a bond in connection with the appeal of such judgment. See “--Any failure by Brookwood to pay dividends or tax sharing payments to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.” The Company does not currently have sufficient cash, directly or through Brookwood, to pay the amount of the damages proposed in the Proposed Findings. Payment by the Company of a significant judgment based on the Proposed Findings, if ultimately required, would have a material adverse effect on the Company, its financial position, results of operation and cash flows. The Company’s insurance carrier for its directors and officers liability policy has also been released from any obligation it may have had to make any payments toward the resolution of the Adversary Proceeding. The Company’s ability to meet in cash a final judgment arising out of the Proposed Findings, including any requirement to post any supersedeas bond to appeal any such judgment or any agreed to cash settlement, would be dependent on the Company’s then available cash and its ability to receive cash dividends or other advances from Brookwood. See “—Brookwood’s ability to pay dividends and tax sharing payments or make advances to the Company is contingent upon Brookwood’s compliance with loan covenants and other factors” above. To pay any such cash dividends or advances to the Company above the permitted annual discretionary dividend not to exceed 50% of Brookwood’s net income, Brookwood has indicated that it would be required (pursuant to the terms of the New Revolving Credit Facility) to obtain consent from BB&T for such payments. The New Revolving Credit Facility provides for aggregate borrowings of up to $25,000,000, of which $2,121,000 was utilized at April 2, 2012. Brookwood has not requested BB&T to approve any such payments and does not intend to do so unless and until requested by the Company and approved by Brookwood’s board of directors. Any such payments or advances would also be contingent upon Brookwood’s ability to meet the requirements of the Delaware corporate laws for the payment of dividends and compliance with other applicable laws and requirements. If for any reason Brookwood is unable to pay a cash dividend or other advance to the Company, the Company would be required to seek alternative sources of funding. The Company has not yet determined what, if any, sources would be available to it, but will consider such alternatives as an additional or new facility or term loan and potential sales of assets or additional securities. No assurance can be given that any such additional sources of funding will be available to the Company. Although the Company does not believe that the results of the other litigation matters, other than the Adversary Proceeding, are likely to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows, it is possible that any of the litigation matters, could result in material liability. Risks related to our Textile Products Business The Company’s textile products business may be affected by the following risk factors, each of which could adversely affect the Company. Brookwood depends upon a limited number of third-party suppliers for raw materials. Brookwood purchases a significant 7 Table of Contents amount of the fabric and other materials it processes and sells from a small number of suppliers. Brookwood believes that the loss of any one of its direct suppliers would not have a long-term adverse effect because other manufacturers with which Brookwood conducts business would be able to fulfill those requirements. However, the loss of certain of Brookwood’s suppliers could, in the short term, adversely affect Brookwood’s business until alternative supply arrangements were secured. In addition, there can be no assurance that any new supply arrangements would have terms as favorable as those contained in current supply arrangements. Some of Brookwood’s suppliers are entering the military markets in competition to Brookwood, targeting specific military specifications. However, there has been no material effect upon Brookwood’s business relationship to date. As of March 30, 2012, Brookwood has not experienced any significant disruptions in supply as a result of shortages in fabrics or other materials from its suppliers. The loss of one or more of Brookwood’s key customers could result in a significant loss of revenues. Brookwood has two customers who accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in one or more of the three years ended December 31, 2011. Sales to one Brookwood customer, Tennier Industries, Inc. (“Tennier”), accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in each of the three years ended December 31, 2011. Brookwood’s relationship with Tennier is ongoing. Sales to Tennier, which are included in military sales, were $13,916,000, $51,637,000 and $60,994,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which represented 10.0%, 30.7% and 34.0% of Brookwood’s sales. Sales to another customer, ORC Industries, Inc. (“ORC”), accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in 2009. Brookwood’s relationship with ORC is ongoing. Sales to ORC, which are also included in military sales, were $5,324,000, $14,375,000 and $24,598,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which represented 3.8%, 8.5% and 13.7% of Brookwood’s sales. Military sales were $73,906,000, $114,266,000 and $130,103,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which represented 53.0%, 67.9% and 72.5% of Brookwood’s sales. Generally, military sales represent sales of a product to a customer (prime and sub-prime contractors) that will be incorporated into an end product that will be used to fulfill a U.S. or international military contract. While Brookwood has enjoyed substantial revenues from its military business, there is no assurance that such revenues will continue. Brookwood’s sales to the customers from whom it derives its military business have been volatile and difficult to predict, a trend management believes will continue. In recent years, orders from the military for goods generally were significantly affected by the activity of the U.S. military. If activity changes, then orders from the military generally, including orders for Brookwood’s products, may be similarly affected. Changes in military procurement practices or regulations could adversely affect Brookwood’s business. From time to time, the military limits orders for existing products and adopts revised specifications for new products to replace the products for which Brookwood’s customers have been suppliers. The U.S. government released orders in recent years that include Brookwood’s products, which resulted in significant military sales. Changes in specifications, procurement entity budgets, or orders present a potential opportunity for additional sales; however, it is a continuing challenge to adjust to changing specifications, budgetary and production requirements. Brookwood has regularly conducted research and development on various processes and products intended to comply with the revised specifications and participates in the bidding process for new military products. However, to the extent Brookwood’s products are not included in future purchases by the U.S. government for any reason, Brookwood’s sales could be adversely affected. A provision of U.S. federal law, known as the Berry Amendment, generally requires the Department of Defense to give preference in procurement to domestically produced products, including textiles. Brookwood’s sales of products to the U.S. military market is highly dependent upon the continuing application and enforcement of the Berry Amendment by the U.S. government. In addition, the U.S. government is releasing contracts for shorter periods than in the past. Management acknowledges the unpredictability in revenues and margins due to military sales and is unable at this time to predict future sales trends. Global capital and credit market conditions could have an adverse effect on Brookwood’s business, operating results and financial condition. Brookwood maintains factoring agreements with several factors, which provide that receivables resulting from credit sales to customers, excluding the U.S. government, may be sold to the factor, subject to a commission and the factor’s prior approval. The amount of receivables that Brookwood can factor is subject to certain limitations as specified in individual factoring agreements. The factoring agreements expose Brookwood to credit risk if any of the factors fail to meet their obligations. Brookwood seeks to manage this risk by conducting business with a number of reputable factors and monitoring the factors’ performance under their agreements. Brookwood continues to monitor its factors and their ability to fulfill their obligations to Brookwood in a timely manner. As of March 30, 2012, all of Brookwood’s factors were complying with payment terms in accordance with factor agreements. Brookwood’s ability to comply with its New Revolving Credit Facility is subject to future performance and other factors. Brookwood’s New Revolving Credit Facility with BB&T, entered into on March 30, 2012, requires compliance with various loan covenants and financial ratios on a quarterly basis, principally (i) a ratio of total current assets to the sum of total current liabilities and the outstanding loan balance of not less than 1.40 to 1.00; (ii) a ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth of not greater than 1.50 to 1.00; and (iii) a ratio of funded debt (as defined) to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) for the trailing four quarters of not greater than 2.75 to 1.00. 8 Table of Contents Brookwood was in compliance with its principal loan covenants on its former Working Capital Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 and for all interim periods, except one as discussed below, during those years. Due to a decline in military sales for the 2011 first quarter, Brookwood was unable to meet the financial covenant that requires income before taxes of at least $1 in each quarter. Brookwood’s unaudited loss before taxes for the 2011 first quarter was $299,000. Accordingly, in May 2011, Brookwood requested and received a waiver from KeyBanc for the income covenant for the 2011 first quarter. Brookwood received an increased level of military orders in late March 2011 and into the subsequent 2011 periods, and reported income before taxes in excess of $1 in the 2011 second quarter, third quarter and fourth quarter, respectively, and was in compliance with its loan covenants for the three remaining 2011 quarters. If Brookwood does not comply with its loan covenants for any quarter, under the New Revolving Credit Facility, the bank may require payment of outstanding amounts and prohibit cash dividends and tax sharing payments by Brookwood to the Company. Brookwood would have been in compliance with the loan covenants of the New Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2011, if they had been in effect at such date. Brookwood is subject to many environmental regulations that may result in significant costs or liabilities or cause interruptions in its operations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are subject to a broad range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the pollution and protection of the environment. Among the many environmental requirements applicable to Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are laws relating to air emissions, ozone depletion, wastewater discharges and the handling, disposal and release of solid and hazardous substances and wastes. Based on continuing internal review and advice from independent consultants, Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating believe that they are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are also subject to such laws as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), that may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at on-site or off-site locations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are not aware of any releases for which they may be liable under CERCLA or any analogous provision. Actions by federal, state and local governments concerning environmental matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of producing the products manufactured by Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating or otherwise adversely affect demand for their products. Widespread adoption of any prohibitions or restrictions could adversely affect the cost and/or the ability to produce products and thereby have a material adverse effect upon Kenyon, Brookwood Laminating or Brookwood. Brookwood does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of its efforts to comply with environmental requirements. Some risk of environmental liability is inherent, however, in the nature of Brookwood’s business. There can be no assurance that material environmental liabilities will not arise. It is also possible that future developments in environmental regulation could lead to material environmental compliance or cleanup costs. Brookwood’s business could lose a significant competitive advantage if it fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights. Brookwood considers its patents and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to its business and seeks to protect this proprietary know-how in part through U. S. patent and trademark registrations. No assurance can be given, however, that such protection will give Brookwood any material competitive advantage. In addition, Brookwood maintains certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, it has not sought patent or trademark protection. As a result, such trade secrets could be infringed upon and such infringement could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position. In July 2007, Nextec Applications Inc. filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York claiming that Brookwood infringed five United States patents pertaining to internally-coated webs. Nextec later added additional patents to the lawsuit. After a number of motions, only two patents remain in the action and are being asserted against the process and machine for making certain fabrics. Brookwood intends to vigorously defend against all remaining claims. Trial on this matter is currently scheduled to begin on April 30, 2012. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a further description of this lawsuit. The strength of Brookwood’s competitors may impact its ability to maintain and grow sales, which could decrease revenues. The cyclical nature of the textile and apparel industries, characterized by rapid shifts in military procurement, fashion and consumer demand and competitive pressures, results in both price and demand volatility. The demand for any particular product varies from time to time based largely upon changes in military specifications, consumer and industrial preferences, and general economic conditions affecting the textile and apparel industries, such as consumer expenditures for non-durable goods. The textile and apparel industries are also cyclical because the supply of particular products changes as competitors enter or leave the market. Brookwood sells primarily to domestic manufacturers, some of which operate offshore sewing operations. Some of 9 Table of Contents Brookwood’s customers have moved their business offshore. Brookwood has responded by shipping fabric Asia to Asia and also by supplying finished products directly to manufacturers. Brookwood competes with numerous domestic and foreign fabric manufacturers, including companies larger in size and having greater financial resources than Brookwood. The principal competitive factors in the woven fabrics markets are price, service, delivery time, quality and flexibility, with the relative importance of each factor depending upon the needs of particular customers and the specific product offering. Brookwood’s management believes that Brookwood maintains its ability to compete effectively by providing its customers with a broad array of high-quality fabrics at competitive prices on a timely basis. There are an increasing number of competitors entering the military market. These competitors vary and include converters from other market segments, as well as major mills, some of which are Brookwood suppliers, who are selectively targeting specific military specifications. As these companies enter the military market, the competitive pressures may result in further price and demand volatility. Changes in the trade regulatory environment could weaken Brookwood’s competitive position and have a material adverse effect on its business, net sales and profitability. Imports of foreign-made textile and apparel products are a significant source of competition for most sectors of the domestic textile industry. The U.S. government has attempted to regulate the growth of certain textile and apparel imports through tariffs and bilateral agreements, which establish quotas on imports from lesser-developed countries that historically account for significant shares of U.S. imports. Despite these efforts, imported apparel, which represents the area of heaviest import penetration, is estimated to represent in excess of 90% of the U.S. market. The U.S. textile industry has been and continues to be negatively impacted by existing worldwide trade practices, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”), the Central American Free Trade Agreement (“CAFTA”), anti-dumping and duty enforcement activities by the U.S. government and by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies. The establishment of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) in 1995 has resulted in the phase out of quotas on textiles and apparel, effective January 1, 2005. Under NAFTA and CAFTA there are no textile and apparel quotas between the U.S. and the other parties for products that meet certain origin criteria. Tariffs among the countries are either already zero or are being phased out. Although these actions have the effect of exposing Brookwood’s market to the lower price structures of the other countries and, therefore, continuing to increase competitive pressures, management is not able to predict their specific impact. Accordingly, Brookwood believes it must fully utilize other competitive strategies to replace sales lost to importers. One strategy is to identify new market niches. In addition to its existing products and proprietary technologies, Brookwood has developed advanced breathable, waterproof laminate and other materials, which have been well received by its customers. Continued development of these fabrics for military, industrial and consumer application is a key element of Brookwood’s business plan. The U.S. government is engaged in discussions with a number of countries or trading blocs with the intent of further liberalizing trade. Authority to negotiate new “fast track” agreements has been granted by Congress, making new agreements in this field more likely. Any employee slowdown or strike or the failure to renew the collective bargaining agreement could disrupt Brookwood’s business. Although, in 2010, Kenyon entered into an agreement for a new three-year collective bargaining agreement with Local 1321T of the New England Joint Board of UNITE HERE! union, representing approximately 250 employees at its Rhode Island plant facility, effective from March 1, 2010 through February 28, 2013, any employee slowdown or strike or failure to renew the collective bargaining agreement in 2013 could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Brookwood’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. Brookwood is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Risks Related to Investments in Financial Instruments Hallwood Group invests in cash equivalents and marketable securities that carry investment risk and may incur loss. As of December 31, 2011, cash is held in demand deposit accounts or is invested in a variety of highly liquid cash equivalents, principally money market funds. At December 31, 2010, marketable securities included variable-rate demand notes, which have long-term nominal maturity dates with interest rates that generally reset weekly. Despite the long-term nature of the variable rate demand 10 Table of Contents notes, management believes that it has the ability to quickly liquidate these securities, which have an embedded put option that allows the bondholder to sell the security at par plus accrued interest. Neither the Company or Brookwood held any variable-rate demand notes at December 31, 2011. While management believes the investments in demand deposits, cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2011 carry limited risk, no guarantee is made that the investments will be recovered at their full value. As previously discussed, the Company opened an investment account with UBS AG in the 2011 first quarter. The Company intended to transfer a significant portion of the cash it holds from time to time to the UBS account to be invested in various instruments, including equity and debt that is publicly traded or is issued by United States and foreign publicly traded companies, financial institutions, mutual funds and exchange traded funds. Because of the current pending Adversary Proceeding, the Company does not currently intend to transfer funds into the UBS account, but may reconsider this matter after the Adversary Proceeding is concluded. Risk factors related to the Company’s investment account at UBS are not provided as such activities have not commenced, nor is it determinable when such activities will occur. Risks Related to our Energy Business Risk factors for the Company’s energy business are not provided as the Company’s involvement in the energy business ceased in 2009 following the bankruptcy reorganization of its former energy affiliate, Hallwood Energy. In October 2009, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed a plan of reorganization of the debtors that, among other things, extinguished Hallwood Energy’s general partnership and limited partnership interests, including those held by the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 