Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to the Company A significant stockholder has the ability to substantially influence the Company and it may conflict with or differ from other stockholders. Hallwood Financial Limited (“Hallwood Financial”), a corporation controlled by the Company’s chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Anthony J. Gumbiner and members of his family, owns approximately 66% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of March 29, 2010. Accordingly, Mr. Gumbiner can exert substantial influence over the affairs of the Company. The Company’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The Company is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, loss of their services could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Brookwood’s ability to pay cash dividends and tax sharing payments to the Company are contingent upon Brookwood’s compliance with loan covenants required by its revolving credit agreement. Cash dividends and tax sharing payments by Brookwood to the Company are contingent upon compliance with the loan covenants in Brookwood’s Working Capital Revolving Credit Facility with Key Bank National Association. This limitation on the transferability of assets could adversely affect the Company’s operations if such payments were restricted. Compliance with corporate governance and disclosure standards is costly. The Company has spent and continues to spend a significant amount of management time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), SEC regulations and stock exchange rules. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires management’s annual review and evaluation of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these controls by management. Because the Company qualifies as a smaller reporting company, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is not required to provide an attestation report. In early 2008, the Company completed its first Section 404 report for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company continued to enhance its internal controls and completed its annual review and evaluation of its internal controls and issued its Section 404 report for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 in April 2009 and March 2010, respectively. However, there is no guarantee that the Company will receive management assurance or an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm that internal control over financial reporting is effective in future periods. In the event that the Company’s chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is not effective as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, investor perceptions of the Company may be adversely affected. In addition, overhead may increase as a result of the additional costs associated with complying with the complex legal requirements associated with being a public reporting company. Litigation may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of litigation matters, as described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this report. Although the Company does not believe that the results of any of these matters are likely to have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, it is possible that any of the matters could result in material liability to the Company. In addition, the Company has spent and will likely continue to spend significant amounts in professional fees in connection with these matters. Risks related to our Textile Products Business The Company’s textile products business may be affected by the following risk factors, each of which could adversely affect the Company. Brookwood depends upon a limited number of third-party suppliers for raw materials. Brookwood purchases a significant amount of the fabric and other materials it processes and sells from a small number of suppliers. Brookwood believes that the loss of any one of its suppliers would not have a long-term material adverse effect because other manufacturers with which Brookwood conducts business would be able to fulfill those requirements. However, the loss of certain of Brookwood’s suppliers could, in the short term, adversely affect Brookwood’s business until alternative supply arrangements were secured. In addition, there can be no assurance that any new 6 Table of Contents supply arrangements would have terms as favorable as those contained in current supply arrangements. Some of Brookwood’s suppliers are entering the military markets in competition to Brookwood, targeting specific military specifications, however, there has been no material effect upon Brookwood’s business relationship to date. Brookwood is monitoring its suppliers and any effect the current economic conditions may have upon their ability to deliver required materials in a timely manner. The financial markets’ inability to determine the extent and longevity of the current economic downturn may have an effect upon key and multiple suppliers which cannot be determined at this time. As of March 31, 2010, Brookwood has not experienced any significant disruptions in supply as a result of shortages in fabrics or other materials from its suppliers. The loss of one or more of Brookwood’s key customers could result in a significant loss of revenues. Brookwood has several customers who accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in one or more of the three years ended December 31, 2009. Sales to one Brookwood customer, Tennier Industries, Inc. (“Tennier”), accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in each of the three years ended December 31, 2009. Brookwood’s relationship with Tennier is ongoing. Sales to Tennier, which are included in military sales, were $60,994,000, $47,310,000 and $40,844,000 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which represented 34.0%, 29.2% and 30.8% of Brookwood’s sales. Sales to another customer, ORC Industries, Inc. (“ORC”), accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in 2009 and 2008. Brookwood’s relationship with ORC is ongoing. Sales to ORC, which are also included in military sales, were $24,598,000, $18,436,000 and $8,971,000 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which represented 13.7%, 11.4% and 6.8% of Brookwood’s sales. Sales to another customer accounted for slightly more than 10% of sales for 2008 only. Brookwood’s relationship with the customer is ongoing. Sales to that customer, which are also included in military sales, were $16,752,000 in 2008, which represented 10.3% of Brookwood’s sales. Military sales were $130,103,000, $101,813,000 and $70,006,000 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which represented 72.5%, 62.8% and 52.8% of Brookwood’s sales. While Brookwood has enjoyed substantial growth in its military business, there is no assurance this trend will continue. Brookwood’s sales to the customers from whom it derives its military business have been volatile and difficult to predict, a trend the Company believes will continue. In recent years, orders from the military for goods generally were significantly affected by the increased activity of the U.S. military. If this activity does not continue or declines, then orders from the military generally, including orders for Brookwood’s products, may be similarly affected. Changes in military procurement practices or regulations could adversely effect Brookwood’s business. From time to time, the military limits orders for existing products and adopts revised specifications for new products to replace the products for which Brookwood’s customers have been suppliers. The U.S. government released orders in recent years that include Brookwood’s products, which resulted in a substantial increase in military sales over prior periods. Changes in specifications or orders present a potential opportunity for additional sales; however, it is a continuing challenge to adjust to changing specifications and production requirements. Brookwood has regularly conducted research and development on various processes and products intended to comply with the revised specifications and participates in the bidding process for new military products. However, to the extent Brookwood’s products are not included in future purchases by the U.S. government for any reason, Brookwood’s sales could be adversely affected. A provision of U.S. federal law, known as the Berry Amendment, generally requires the Department of Defense to give preference in procurement to domestically produced products, including textiles. Brookwood’s sales of products to the U.S. military market is highly dependent upon the continuing application and enforcement of the Berry Amendment by the U.S. government. In addition, the U.S. government is releasing contracts for shorter periods than in the past. The Company acknowledges the unpredictability in revenues and margins due to military sales and is unable at this time to predict future sales trends. Global capital and credit market conditions could have a material adverse effect on Brookwood’s business, operating results and financial condition. The financial instruments that potentially subject Brookwood to concentration of credit risk consist principally of accounts receivable. Brookwood grants credit to customers based on an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition. Exposure to losses on receivables is principally dependent on each customer’s financial condition. Brookwood manages its exposure to credit risks through credit approvals, credit limits, monitoring procedures and the use of factors. Brookwood continues to monitor its customers and the effect the current economic conditions may have upon their ability to fulfill their obligations to Brookwood in a timely manner. As of March 31, 2010, Brookwood’s key customers were complying with their payment terms. 7 Table of Contents The amount of receivables that Brookwood can factor is subject to certain limitations as specified in individual factoring agreements. The factoring agreements expose Brookwood to credit risk if any of the factors fail to meet their obligations. Brookwood seeks to manage this risk by conducting business with a number of reputable factors and monitoring the factors’ performance under their agreements. Brookwood continues to monitor its factors and the effect the current economic conditions may have upon their ability to fulfill their obligations to Brookwood in a timely manner. The parent company of one of Brookwood’s factors, CIT Group Inc. (“CIT”), previously announced it had liquidity issues and filed for bankruptcy on October 31, 2009. Brookwood took steps to protect its interests with CIT and expanded its relationships with other factors. Additionally, Brookwood has amended its factor agreement with CIT that, among other things, allows CIT to be a Brookwood receivables management agent in connection with post-September 30, 2009 receivables and further clarifies Brookwood’s ownership of the receivables. As of March 31, 2010, all of Brookwood’s factors were complying with payment terms in accordance with factor agreements, although such terms from the other factors have resulted in timing differences that have increased Brookwood’s end-of-month receivables balances. Brookwood’s ability to comply with its revolving credit agreement is subject to future performance and other factors. Brookwood’s revolving credit agreement requires compliance with various loan covenants and financial ratios, principally a total debt to tangible net worth ratio of 1.50, a requirement that net income in each quarter must exceed one dollar and a new covenant, effective December 31, 2009, of total funded debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), for the trailing four quarters, ratio not to exceed 2.00. Brookwood was in compliance with its principal loan covenants as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and for all interim periods during those years, although a waiver regarding a pro forma (inclusive of projected dividend) total debt to tangible net worth ratio for the 2007 third quarter was granted to allow a $1,500,000 dividend payment in November 2007 and an amendment to the revolving credit agreement was entered into in June 2008 to allow a $4,800,000 dividend payment in June 2008 and restrict calendar 2008 total dividends from Brookwood to $9,300,000. Brookwood is subject to many environmental regulations that may result in significant costs or liabilities or cause interruptions in its operations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are subject to a broad range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the pollution and protection of the environment. Among the many environmental requirements applicable to Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are laws relating to air emissions, ozone depletion, wastewater discharges and the handling, disposal and release of solid and hazardous substances and wastes. Based on continuing internal review and advice from independent consultants, Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating believe that they are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are also subject to such laws as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (‘‘CERCLA”), that may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at on-site or off-site locations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are not aware of any releases for which they may be liable under CERCLA or any analogous provision. Actions by federal, state and local governments concerning environmental matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of producing the products manufactured by Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating or otherwise adversely affect demand for their products. Widespread adoption of any prohibitions or restrictions could adversely affect the cost and/or the ability to produce products and thereby have a material adverse effect upon Kenyon, Brookwood Laminating or Brookwood. Brookwood does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of its efforts to comply with environmental requirements. Some risk of environmental liability is inherent, however, in the nature of Brookwood’s business. There can be no assurance that material environmental liabilities will not arise. It is also possible that future developments in environmental regulation could lead to material environmental compliance or cleanup costs. Brookwood’s business could lose a significant competitive advantage if it fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights. Brookwood considers its patents and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to its business and seeks to protect this proprietary know-how in part through U.S. patent and trademark registrations. No assurance can be given, however, that such protection will give Brookwood any material competitive advantage. In addition, Brookwood maintains certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, it has not sought patent or trademark protection. As a result, such trade secrets could be infringed upon 8 Table of Contents and such infringement could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position. In July 2007, Nextec Applications Inc. filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York claiming that Brookwood infringed five United States patents pertaining to internally-coated webs. Nextec sought leave of Court to add two additional patents to the lawsuit. The Court conducted a hearing on February 17, 2010 to hear argument on motions for summary judgment filed by both parties on various issues and defenses. No ruling has yet been issued following the hearing. Brookwood intends to vigorously defend against these claims. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this report for a further description of this lawsuit. The strength of Brookwood’s competitors may impact its ability to maintain and grow sales, which could decrease revenues. The cyclical nature of the textile and apparel industries, characterized by rapid shifts in military procurement, fashion and consumer demand and competitive pressures, results in both price and demand volatility. The demand for any particular product varies from time to time based largely upon changes in military specifications, consumer and industrial preferences, and general economic conditions affecting the textile and apparel industries, such as consumer expenditures for non-durable goods. The textile and apparel industries are also cyclical because the supply of particular products changes as competitors enter or leave the market. Brookwood sells primarily to domestic manufacturers, some of which operate offshore sewing operations. Some of Brookwood’s customers have moved their business offshore. Brookwood has responded by shipping fabric Asia to Asia and also by supplying finished products and garments directly to manufacturers. Brookwood competes with numerous domestic and foreign fabric manufacturers, including companies larger in size and having greater financial resources than Brookwood. The principal competitive factors in the woven fabrics markets are price, service, delivery time, quality and flexibility, with the relative importance of each factor depending upon the needs of particular customers and the specific product offering. Brookwood’s management believes that Brookwood maintains its ability to compete effectively by providing its customers with a broad array of high-quality fabrics at competitive prices on a timely basis. There are an increasing number of competitors entering the military market. These competitors vary and include converters from other market segments, as well as major mills, some of which are Brookwood suppliers, who are selectively targeting specific military specifications. As these companies enter the military market, the competitive pressures may result in further price and demand volatility. Changes in the trade regulatory environment could weaken Brookwood’s competitive position and have a material adverse effect on its business, net sales and profitability. Imports of foreign-made textile and apparel products are a significant source of competition for most sectors of the domestic textile industry. The U.S. government has attempted to regulate the growth of certain textile and apparel imports through tariffs and bilateral agreements, which establish quotas on imports from lesser-developed countries that historically account for significant shares of U.S. imports. Despite these efforts, imported apparel, which represents the area of heaviest import penetration, is estimated to represent in excess of 90% of the U.S. market. The U.S. textile industry has been and continues to be negatively impacted by existing worldwide trade practices, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (‘‘NAFTA”), anti-dumping and duty enforcement activities by the U.S. government and by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies. The establishment of the World Trade Organization (‘‘WTO”) in 1995 has resulted in the phase out of quotas on textiles and apparel, effective January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding quota elimination, China’s accession agreement for membership in the WTO provides that WTO member countries (including the United States, Canada and European countries) may re-impose quotas on specific categories of products in the event it is determined that imports from China have surged and are threatening to create a market disruption for such categories of products. During 2005, the United States and China agreed to a new quota arrangement, which imposed quotas on certain textile products through the end of 2008. The industry is monitoring Chinese imports and continues to explore all current trade remedy laws that will address unfair trade practices that China has failed to eliminate under its WTO commitment. The United States may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries) in such increased quantities as to cause (or threaten) serious damage to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as “anti-dumping” actions). In addition, China has imposed an export tax on all 9 Table of Contents textile products manufactured in China; Brookwood does not believe this tax will have a material impact on its business. Under NAFTA there are no textile and apparel quotas between the U.S. and either Mexico or Canada for products that meet certain origin criteria. Tariffs among the three countries are either already zero or are being phased out. Also, the WTO recently phased out textile and apparel quotas. The U.S. government has also approved the Central American Free Trade Agreement (“CAFTA”) with several Central American countries (Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua). Under CAFTA, textile and apparel originating from CAFTA countries will be duty and quota-free, provided that yarn formed in the United States or other CAFTA countries is used to produce the fabric. In addition, the United States recently implemented bilateral free trade agreements with Bahrain, Chile, Israel, Jordan, Morocco and Singapore. Although these actions have the effect of exposing Brookwood’s market to the lower price structures of the other countries and, therefore, continuing to increase competitive pressures, management is not able to predict their specific impact. In 2002, the U.S. government unveiled a proposal to eliminate worldwide tariffs for manufactured goods by 2015. The European Union has also proposed significant reductions in tariffs. These proposals have been discussed during the ongoing WTO Doha Round of multilateral negotiations, and could lead to further significant changes in worldwide tariffs beyond those already anticipated. A seven-year effort under the WTO Doha Round to establish further tariff liberalization was delayed in August 2008 due to a breakdown in agricultural negotiations between developed and emerging economies. Further Doha rounds are scheduled, however, major obstacles remain in the global trade talks and little progress is expected in the near term. Accordingly, Brookwood believes it must fully utilize other competitive strategies to replace sales lost to importers. One strategy is to identify new market niches. In addition to its existing products and proprietary technologies, Brookwood has been developing advanced breathable, waterproof laminate and other materials, which have been well received by its customers. Continued development of these fabrics for military, industrial and consumer application is a key element of Brookwood’s business plan The U.S. government is engaged in discussions with a number of countries or trading blocs with the intent of further liberalizing trade. Authority to negotiate new “fast track” agreements has been granted by Congress, making new agreements in this field more likely. The U.S. government has also entered into a free trade agreement with Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Israel, Jordan, Morocco and Singapore. Any employee slowdown or strike or the failure to renew the collective bargaining agreement could disrupt Brookwood’s business. Although, on February 28, 2010, Kenyon reached agreement for a new three-year collective bargaining agreement with Local 1321T of the New England Joint Board of UNITE HERE! union, representing approximately 250 employees at its Rhode Island plant facility, effective from March 1, 2010 through February 28, 2013, any employee slowdown or strike or failure to renew the collective bargaining agreement in 2013 could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Brookwood’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. Brookwood is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Risks Related to our Energy Business Risk factors for the Company’s energy business are not provided as the Company’s involvement in the energy business ceased in 2009 following the bankruptcy reorganization of its former energy affiliate, Hallwood Energy. On October 16, 2009, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed a plan of reorganization of the debtors that, among other things, extinguished Hallwood Energy’s general partnership and limited partnership interests, including those held by the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 Table of Contents 