Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully review and consider the risks described below and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K before evaluating the Company’s business or making an investment decision. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Investors should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes thereto. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated. Additional risks which the Company does not presently consider material, or of which it is not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on the business. Also see the section of this Form 10-K entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on Page 3. Risks related to the Company There is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed in depth throughout this Form 10-K, the Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of litigation matters and have spent significant amounts in professional fees in connection with the defense of its pending legal matters. As further discussed in Item 3 of this Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings,” in connection with Hallwood Energy’s bankruptcy proceeding, Hallwood Energy and other parties filed a number of lawsuits against the Company, its directors and various other parties. In July 2011, the court in the Adversary Proceeding issued Proposed Findings setting forth damages totaling approximately $18,700,000, plus prejudgment and postjudgment interest. In April 2012, the United States District Court substantially adopted the Proposed Findings. The Company satisfied the Judgment of $21,721,000, including prejudgment and postjudgment interest, in May 2012. The Company is in the process of appealing to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals the portions of the Judgment awarding a combined $17,947,000 on the plaintiffs’ tort claims. Additionally, the amount and timing of an award of plaintiff attorney fees are currently unresolved and will be determined by the court. As discussed separately in the other risk factors set forth below, (i) the Company is dependent upon Brookwood for cash, (ii) the Company does not currently have sufficient cash, either directly or through Brookwood, to pay its operating costs at the holding company or the HFL Loan, and (iii) Brookwood’s ability to pay the Company a dividend or other advance is dependent upon circumstances that are outside of the Company’s control. The Company can give no assurance that Brookwood will have the ability to satisfy the Company’s cash flow needs, or that the Company would be able to obtain other sources of funding in such a circumstance, and therefore there is substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Any failure by Brookwood to pay dividends or tax sharing payments to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. As a holding company, the Company is dependent on Brookwood to receive the cash necessary to fund its ongoing operations and its obligations. At December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately $193,000 of cash and cash equivalents. Any failure to receive from Brookwood cash required by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows and could substantially impair the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Brookwood’s ability to pay dividends and tax sharing payments or make advances to the Company is contingent upon Brookwood’s compliance with loan covenants and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Brookwood’s ability to pay dividends and tax sharing payments or make advances to the Company are contingent upon Brookwood’s compliance with the loan covenants in the New Revolving Credit Facility with BB&T and are limited in amount by terms of the loan agreement for the New Revolving Credit Facility. This limitation could adversely affect the Company if these payments were restricted and such a restriction could 11 Table of Contents substantially impair the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The August 24, 2012 amendment (discussed in more detail in Item 1 of this Form 10-K) provides that limited cash dividends or advances to the Company may be made provided if no event of default has occurred or would result from any such payment. Brookwood may pay to the Company (a) periodic payments for tax sharing obligations, (b) discretionary dividends in an aggregate amount not to exceed 50% of Brookwood’s net income for the fiscal year with respect to which such dividends are made, and (c) other dividends or distributions in an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000 (of which, as of March 25, 2013, a total of $11,000,000 has been utilized with an $8,000,000 dividend in May 2012 and the reclassification of the $3,000,000 of discretionary dividends attributable to 2012 due to Brookwood’s financial results for 2012). Any future payments or advances would also be contingent upon the approval of Brookwood’s board of directors and Brookwood’s ability to meet the requirements of the Delaware corporate laws for the payment of dividends and compliance with other applicable laws and requirements. The voting power in the Company is substantially controlled by one significant stockholder, who has the ability to substantially influence the Company, and the interests of this stockholder may conflict with or differ from those of other stockholders. Hallwood Financial, a corporation controlled by the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Anthony J. Gumbiner, and members of his family, is its largest shareholder, with ownership representing approximately 66% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of March 25, 2013. Consequently, Mr. Gumbiner, through Hallwood Financial, is in a position to significantly influence any matters that are brought to a vote of the shareholders, including, but not limited to, the election of members of the Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including any amendments to its governing documents, mergers or sales of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of the Company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Hallwood Financial. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. The Judgment in particular, and litigation in general, have been expensive and have added substantial debt to the Company, which the Company may not be able to repay without new funding, if available. As further discussed in Item 3 of this Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings”, in connection with Hallwood Energy’s bankruptcy proceeding, Hallwood Energy and other parties filed a number of lawsuits against the Company, its directors and various other parties. In July 2011, the court in the Adversary Proceeding issued Proposed Findings (as that term is defined in Item 3 of this Form 10-K) setting forth damages totaling approximately $18,700,000, plus prejudgment and postjudgment interest. In April 2012, the United States District Court substantially adopted the Proposed Findings. The Company satisfied the Judgment of $21,721,000, including prejudgment and postjudgment interest, in May 2012. The Company is in the process of appealing to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals the portions of the Judgment awarding a combined $17,947,000 on the plaintiffs’ tort claims. Additionally, the amount and timing of an award of plaintiff attorney fees are currently unresolved and will be determined by the court. In May 2012, to fund in part the payment of the Judgment, the Company obtained the $10,000,000 HFL Loan from Hallwood Family (BVI) L.P., a limited partnership associated with Mr. Anthony J. Gumbiner, the Company’s chairman, Chief Executive Officer and principal stockholder. The HFL Loan is secured by a subordinated pledge of all of the stock of Brookwood and by the Company’s interest in the anticipated refunds of federal income taxes, which are approximately $4,570,000 that the Company expects to receive in 2013. In connection with the HFL Loan, a Pledge and Security Agreement and a Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement (“Intercreditor Agreement”) were entered into and effective May 9, 2012. The Intercreditor Agreement, among other things, subordinates any security interest or lien that Hallwood Family (BVI) L.P. may have in certain assets of the Company, including the stock of Brookwood, to BB&T. The HFL Loan bears 12 Table of Contents interest at the rate of 6% per year, payable on a quarterly basis. The Company may prepay the HFL Loan at any time without penalty. The documents reflecting the HFL Loan contain representations, warranties and covenants that are typical for loans of this type. The outstanding balance on the HFL Loan was $8,747,000 at December 31, 2012. The Company does not currently have sufficient cash, either directly or through Brookwood, to pay its operating costs at the holding company or the HFL Loan, however on March 11, 2013, the promissory note associated with the HFL Loan was amended to primarily (i) extend the maturity date of the HFL Loan by two years until June 30, 2015 and (ii) provide for an additional advance of $300,000 under the promissory note, resulting in an outstanding balance of $9,047,000. If for any reason Brookwood is unable to pay cash dividends or other advances to the Company, the Company would be required to seek alternative sources of funding. The Company has not yet determined what, if any, sources would be available to it, but may consider such alternatives as an additional or new facility or term loan and potential sales of assets or additional securities. No assurance can be given that any such additional sources of funding will be available to the Company, which could result in the Company not being able to continue as a going concern. The Company’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The Company is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, loss of their services could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Risks related to the Company’s Textile Products Business Brookwood depends on a few key customers for a significant portion of its annual sales revenue, and loss of one or more of these key customers could result in a significant loss of revenues. Sales to Tennier accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010. Brookwood’s relationship with Tennier is ongoing. Sales to Tennier, which are included in military sales, were $21,282,000, $13,916,000 and $51,637,000 in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which represented 16.3%, 10.0% and 30.7% of Brookwood’s sales. Military sales were $68,091,000, $73,906,000 and $114,266,000 in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which represented 52.2%, 53.0% and 67.9% of Brookwood’s sales. These sales amounts were 3.8% lower in 2012 and 35.3% lower in 2011 from the respective previous years. Generally, military sales represent sales of a product to a customer (prime and sub-prime contractors) that will be incorporated into an end product that will be used to fulfill a U.S. or international military contract. While Brookwood has enjoyed substantial revenues from its military business, there is no assurance that such revenues will continue. Brookwood’s sales to the customers from whom it derives its military business have been volatile and difficult to predict, a trend management believes will continue. In recent years, orders from the military for goods generally were significantly decreased as a result of changes in the activity of the U.S. military. If such activity continues to change, then orders from the military generally, including orders for Brookwood’s products, may experience further decline. There is no assurance that the revenues that Brookwood has previously enjoyed from its military sales will continue, which could have a material adverse effect on Brookwood’s operating results and financial condition. Changes in military procurement practices or regulations could adversely affect Brookwood’s business. From time to time, the military limits orders for existing products and adopts revised specifications for new products to replace the products for which Brookwood’s customers have been suppliers. Adjusting to changing specifications, procurement entity budgets, or orders is a continuing challenge. To the extent Brookwood’s 13 Table of Contents products are not included in future purchases by the U.S. government for any reason, Brookwood’s sales could be adversely affected. A provision of U.S. federal law, known as the Berry Amendment, generally requires the Department of Defense to give preference in procurement to domestically produced products, including textiles. Brookwood’s sales of products to the U.S. military market are highly dependent upon the continuing application and enforcement of the Berry Amendment by the U.S. government. Brookwood’s management acknowledges the unpredictability in revenues and margins due to military sales and is unable at this time to predict future sales trends. Brookwood depends upon a limited number of third-party suppliers for raw materials, and the loss of certain suppliers could adversely affect Brookwood’s business. As discussed in Item 1 of this Form 10-K, Brookwood purchases a significant amount of the fabric and other materials it processes and sells from a small number of suppliers, some of which compete with Brookwood, targeting specific military specifications. The loss of certain of Brookwood’s suppliers could, in the short term, adversely affect Brookwood’s business until alternative supply arrangements were secured, if at all. In addition, if Brookwood were able to secure alternative arrangements, there can be no assurance that such arrangements would include terms as favorable to Brookwood as those contained in Brookwood’s current supply arrangements. Brookwood’s factoring agreements expose it to credit risks, which could result in an adverse effect on Brookwood’s business, operating results and financial condition. Brookwood maintains factoring agreements with several factors, which provide that receivables resulting from credit sales to customers, excluding the U.S. government, may be assigned for collection to the factor, subject to a commission and the factor’s prior approval. The factoring agreements expose Brookwood to credit risk if any of the factors fail to meet their respective obligations. Brookwood seeks to manage this risk by conducting business with a number of reputable factors and monitoring the factors’ performance under their agreements. Brookwood continues to monitor its factors and their ability to fulfill their obligations to Brookwood in a timely manner. Brookwood’s ability to comply with its New Revolving Credit Facility is subject to future performance and other factors. Brookwood’s New Revolving Credit Facility with BB&T, entered into on March 30, 2012 and amended August 24, 2012, requires compliance with various loan covenants and financial ratios on a quarterly basis, principally (i) a ratio of total current assets to the sum of total current liabilities and the outstanding loan balance of not less than 1.40 to 1.00; (ii) a ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth of not greater than 1.50 to 1.00; and (iii) a ratio of funded debt (as defined in the New Revolving Credit Facility)-to-EBITDA for the trailing four quarters of not greater than 4.00 to 1.00. If Brookwood does not comply with its loan covenants for any quarter, under the New Revolving Credit Facility, BB&T may (i) declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and payable; (ii) require Brookwood or the Company to pledge additional collateral; (iii) take immediate possession of and foreclose upon any collateral; (iv) exercise any and all other rights available under the New Revolving Credit Facility or Texas law and (v) terminate its obligations to advance funds to Brookwood, any or all of which would effectively prohibit cash dividends and tax sharing payments by Brookwood to the Company. The strength of Brookwood’s competitors may impact its ability to maintain and grow sales, which could decrease revenues. The cyclical nature of the textile and apparel industries, characterized by rapid shifts in military procurement, fashion and consumer demand and competitive pressures, results in both price and demand volatility. The demand for any particular product varies from time to time based largely upon changes in military specifications, consumer and industrial preferences, and general economic conditions affecting the textile and apparel industries, such as consumer expenditures for non-durable goods. The textile and apparel industries are also cyclical because the supply of particular products changes as competitors enter or leave the market. 14 Table of Contents Brookwood sells primarily to domestic manufacturers, some of which operate offshore sewing operations. Some of Brookwood’s customers have moved their business offshore. Brookwood has responded by shipping fabric Asia to Asia and also by supplying finished products directly to manufacturers. Brookwood competes with numerous domestic and foreign fabric manufacturers, including companies larger in size and having greater financial resources than Brookwood. The principal competitive factors in the woven fabrics markets are price, service, delivery time, quality and flexibility, with the relative importance of each factor depending upon the needs of particular customers and the specific product offering. There are an increasing number of competitors entering the military market. These competitors vary and include converters from other market segments, as well as major mills, some of which are Brookwood suppliers, who are selectively targeting specific military specifications. As these companies enter the military market, the competitive pressures may result in further price and demand volatility, which could decrease revenues. Brookwood is subject to many environmental regulations that may result in significant costs or liabilities or cause interruptions in its operations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are subject to a broad range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the pollution and protection of the environment. Among the many environmental requirements applicable to Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are laws relating to air emissions, ozone depletion, wastewater discharges and the handling, disposal and release of solid and hazardous substances and wastes. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are also subject to such laws as CERCLA, which may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at on-site or off-site locations. Actions by federal, state and local governments concerning environmental matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of producing the products manufactured by Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating or otherwise adversely affect demand for their products. Widespread adoption of any prohibitions or restrictions could adversely affect the cost and/or the ability to produce products and thereby have a material adverse effect upon Kenyon, Brookwood Laminating or Brookwood. Some risk of environmental liability is inherent in the nature of Brookwood’s business. There can be no assurance that material environmental liabilities will not arise. It is also possible that future developments in environmental regulation could lead to significant environmental compliance or cleanup costs. Brookwood’s business could lose a significant competitive advantage if it fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights. Brookwood considers its patents and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to its business and seeks to protect this proprietary know-how in part through U. S. patent and trademark registrations. No assurance can be given, however, that such protection will give Brookwood any material competitive advantage. In addition, Brookwood maintains certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, it has not sought patent or trademark protection. As a result, such trade secrets could be infringed upon and such infringement could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position. In July 2007, Nextec Applications Inc. (“Nextec”) filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York claiming that Brookwood infringed five United States patents pertaining to internally-coated webs. Nextec later added additional patents to the lawsuit. After a number of motions, only two patents remained in the action and were being asserted against the process and machine for making certain fabrics. After a five week trial that ended on June 1, 2012, the Court ruled from the bench that, while Nextec’s patents were valid, Brookwood had not infringed any of the patents in the lawsuit. Nextec filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; Brookwood subsequently filed a notice of cross-appeal. Brookwood will continue to vigorously defend this litigation. For a further description of this lawsuit, see Item 3 of this Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings”. 15 Table of Contents Changes in international trade regulations could adversely affect Brookwood’s competitive position and have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations or financial condition. Imports of foreign-made textile and apparel products are a significant source of competition for most sectors of the domestic textile industry. Changes in international trade regulation, including future trade agreements, could provide Brookwood’s competitors an advantage, increase Brookwood’s costs, limit the countries from which it can purchase raw materials and setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country, either of which could have a material adverse effect on Brookwood’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Brookwood’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. Brookwood is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 