Item 1A. Risk Factors Any dissolution of the Company is subject to various uncertainties. Under the Company’s lock up agreement with Verizon, a dissolution of the Company is not permitted until 360 days after the exchange of the Preferred Exchangeable Interest for Verizon stock. The Company currently expects that the Preferred Exchangeable Interest will be exchanged for common stock of Verizon Communications on or about August 15, 2006. If this happens, dissolution cannot, in general, occur prior to approximately August 2007. Notwithstanding that the board is pursuing the dissolution of the Company, under New York State law, the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of Price’s outstanding shares will be required at a shareholders meeting to approve a dissolution of the Company. In recent votes of Price’s shareholders between 6% and 18% of Price’s shareholders have failed to vote (with any such failure to vote at a meeting of shareholders making it more difficult to reach the 66 2/3% affirmative vote required to approve dissolution). The board of directors consequently believes that it may be difficult at any future shareholders’ meeting to obtain the necessary votes to approve dissolution. A failure to dissolve the Company could result in significant adverse tax consequences to the Company and the Company’s shareholders. Unless the Company is dissolved within one year following an exchange of the Preferred Exchangeable Interest for shares of Verizon common Stock, and the Verizon common stock is distributed to shareholders pursuant to a plan of dissolution, any subsequent sale or distribution of Verizon common stock will cause the Company to recognize a substantial amount of taxable gain which may result in the Company incurring substantial tax liability. For example, if the Company were to receive 29,473,000 shares of Verizon common stock and sell all of those shares at $31.66 per share, which was the closing market price of Verizon common stock on January 31, 2006, the taxable gain resulting from the sale would exceed $1.17 billion. In addition, in the event the Company were not dissolved within such one year period, if the Company’s board of directors determined to make a subsequent distribution of the Verizon common stock to the Company’s shareholders that was not in dissolution of the Company, the value of the stock distributed would be treated as a dividend to the extent of the Company’s current or accumulated earnings and profits (which would include the gain recognized by the Company on the distribution of the stock), and taxed to the shareholders as ordinary dividend income. Any amount in excess of earnings and profits would be treated as a return of basis, to the extent thereof, and thereafter as capital gain. If the Verizon common stock is sold by the Company, a 11 distribution of the cash proceeds would be treated in the same manner. Alternatively, if the shareholders approved a subsequent distribution to shareholders at a future meeting of shareholders in dissolution of the Company (which would require a 66 2/3% affirmative vote of the shareholders at a future meeting of shareholders), each shareholder would recognize gain or loss to the extent of the difference between the value of the Verizon common stock (and any other Company assets) received by the shareholder and the aggregate tax basis of shares in the Company held by the shareholder. If the Company does not dissolve it may be unable to identify a new business meeting the Company’s economic and fiduciary requirements. Although the Company has reviewed a number of potential acquisitions and other opportunities, it has been unable to identify or succeed in acquiring any business that would meet the economic and fiduciary requirements of its board of directors particularly in light of the adverse tax consequences that would result if the Company is not dissolved. If the Company retains the Verizon common stock, it may have to register as an investment company. If the Company retains the Verizon common stock, it may have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, which could significantly limit the Company’s ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities and would also impose stringent regulatory requirements. The Company or PCW may be subject to substantial income tax liability as a result of the asset contribution and the exchange of the Preferred Exchangeable Interest. Although Proskauer Rose LLP has opined, subject to certain assumptions and conditions, that neither the asset contribution nor the exchange of the Preferred Exchangeable Interest for Verizon common stock should be a taxable transaction to PCC or PCW, there is a risk that the asset contribution or the exchange will be a taxable transaction, which may result, in either case, in PCC or PCW incurring in excess of $500 million of federal, state and local income tax liability. Future activities of Robert Price. Although Robert Price has informed the Company that he currently plans to remain with the Company if it determines to seek to acquire another business, Mr. Price has stated that it is possible that he will leave the Company and begin another company, including for the purpose of pursuing one of the acquisitions or other business opportunities studied by the Company and Mr. Price. The Preferred Exchangeable Interest is non-transferable and the Verizon common stock issuable upon an exchange is subject to lock-up agreements. Except for certain intercompany transfers or a pledge of all of the Preferred Exchangeable Interest in connection with a financing transaction consented to by Cellco Partnership, the Preferred Exchangeable Interest is non-transferable by the Company. In addition, the shares of Verizon common stock issuable upon an exchange are subject to lock-up agreements, which restrict the ability of the Company to dispose of such shares for a period of time. The Company has limited sources of cash, and its funds may be insufficient to meet its obligations. Until the exchange of the Preferred Exchangeable Interest for Verizon common stock, the Preferred Exchangeable Interest and the investments in the collateral account are expected to be substantially all of the Company’s assets. For a period of up to four years after August 15, 2002, PCW will receive taxable allocations of any profits from the Verizon Partnership equal to its preferred return (which allocations to the extent not distributed in cash, will increase PCW’s capital account in the Verizon Partnership). PCW will receive cash distributions equal to 50% of its preferred return. During the period, the Company expects to have as sources of cash, the cash distributions from the Verizon Partnership prior to the exchange for Verizon stock, income from interest or dividends on investments in the collateral account, and other cash balances and funds that the Company may be able to borrow. The Company currently anticipates that its cash and income are sufficient to meet any cash obligations in the future. There is a remote risk, however, if significant unexpected cash needs arise (such as a demand for payment under the 12 Company’s guaranty to Verizon Communications), that its funds will be insufficient to meet its obligations and if the Company needs to borrow money, to meet such obligations, it may be forced to do so on unfavorable terms. There are restrictions on the Company’s activities Price and PCW obtained an order from the SEC exempting them from all provisions of the Investment Company Act in connection with the asset contribution. The exemption will terminate in August 2006, and will coincide with the exchange of the Preferred Exchangeable Interest in the Verizon Partnership for shares of Verizon Communications common stock. Until August 2006, Price and PCW will remain subject to the conditions of the order, which include limits on the types of securities that Price may hold, and prohibitions on certain types of business. The Company has limited management rights with respect to the Verizon Partnership. Subject to the veto rights granted to the Company under the limited partnership agreement of the Verizon Partnership relating to, among other things, acquisitions and dispositions of assets, engaging in other business activities, incurring indebtedness, capital contributions and distributions, related party transactions and equity issuances, a subsidiary of Cellco Partnership will have the right to manage the Verizon Partnership as its managing general partner. There are no assurances that such subsidiary will be successful in managing the Verizon Partnership or that such subsidiary’s interests in managing the Verizon Partnership will not conflict with the interests of the Company. Possible delisting of the Company’s shares. As a result of the asset contribution transaction with Verizon Wireless, the Company currently has no operating assets. Under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, if a listed company’s operating assets are substantially reduced or if the company ceases to be an operating company, the Exchange may in its discretion initiate delisting procedures. If the dissolution is approved by the Company’s shareholders, the Company expects that its shares will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 