Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to the Company Influence of Significant Stockholder. The Company’s chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Anthony J. Gumbiner, owns approximately 66% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of March 27, 2009. Accordingly, Mr. Gumbiner can exert substantial influence over the affairs of the Company. The Company is Dependent on its Key Personnel Whose Continued Service Is Not Guaranteed. The Company is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, loss of their services could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Compliance with Corporate Governance and Disclosure Standards. The Company has spent and continues to spend a significant amount of management time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley), SEC regulations and stock exchange rules. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires management’s annual review and evaluation of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these controls by management. Because the Company qualifies as a smaller reporting company, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is not required to provide an attestation report. In early 2008, the Company completed its first Section 404 report for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company continued to enhance its internal controls during 2008 and completed its annual review and evaluation of its internal controls and issued its Section 404 report for the year ended December 31, 2008 in April 2009. However, there is no guarantee that the Company will receive management assurance or an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm that internal control over financial reporting is effective in future periods. In the event that the Company’s chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is not effective as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, investor perceptions of the Company may be adversely affected. In addition, overhead may increase as a result of the additional costs associated with complying with the complex legal requirements associated with being a public reporting company. Risks related to our Textile Products Business The Company’s textile products business may be affected by the following risk factors, each of which could adversely affect the Company. Suppliers. Brookwood purchases a significant amount of the fabric and other materials it processes and sells from a small number of suppliers. Brookwood believes that the loss of any one of its suppliers would not have a long-term material adverse effect because other manufacturers with which Brookwood conducts business would be able to fulfill those requirements. However, the loss of certain of Brookwood’s suppliers could, in the short term, adversely affect Brookwood’s business until alternative supply arrangements were secured. In addition, there can be no assurance that any new supply arrangements would have terms as favorable as those contained in current supply arrangements. Some of Brookwood’s suppliers are entering the military markets in competition to Brookwood, targeting specific military specifications, however, there has been no material effect upon Brookwood’s business relationship to date. Brookwood is monitoring its suppliers and any effect the current economic crisis may have upon their ability to deliver required materials in a timely manner. The financial markets’ inability to determine the extent and longevity of the current economic downturn may have an effect upon key and multiple suppliers which cannot be determined at this time. As of March 1, 2009, Brookwood has not experienced any significant disruptions in supply as a result of shortages in fabrics or other materials from its suppliers. Sales Concentration. Brookwood has several customers who have accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in one or more of the three years ended December 31, 2008. Sales to one Brookwood customer, Tennier Industries, Inc. (“Tennier”), accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in each of the three years ended December 31, 2008. Its relationship with Tennier is ongoing. Sales to Tennier, which are included in military sales, were $47,310,000, $40,844,000 and $31,300,000 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which represented 29.2%, 30.8% and 27.9% of Brookwood’s sales. Sales to another customer, ORC Industries, Inc. (“ORC”), 6 Table of Contents accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in 2008 and 2006. Its relationship with ORC is ongoing. Sales to ORC, which are also included in military sales, were $18,436,000, $8,971,000 and $12,609,000 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which represented 11.4%, 6.8% and 11.2% of Brookwood’s sales. Sales to another customer accounted for slightly more than 10% of sales for 2008 only. Brookwood’s relationship with the customer is ongoing. Sales to that customer, which are also included in military sales, were $16,752,000 in 2008, which represented 10.3% of Brookwood’s sales. Military sales were $101,813,000, $70,006,000 and $53,885,000 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which represented 62.8%, 52.8% and 48.0% of Brookwood’s sales. While Brookwood has enjoyed substantial growth in its military business, there is no assurance this trend will continue. Brookwood’s sales to the customers from whom it derives its military business have been more volatile and difficult to predict, a trend the Company believes will continue. In recent years, orders from the military for goods generally were significantly affected by the increased activity of the U.S. military. If this activity does not continue or declines, then orders from the military generally, including orders for Brookwood’s products, may be similarly affected. The military had limited orders in 2006 and the 2007 first quarter for existing products and adopted revised specifications for new products to replace the products for which Brookwood’s customers have been suppliers. However, the U.S. government released orders in the remaining 2007 quarters and into 2008 for goods that include Brookwood’s products, which resulted in a substantial increase in military sales. Changes in specifications or orders present a potential opportunity for additional sales; however, it is a continuing challenge to adjust to changing specifications and production requirements. Brookwood has regularly conducted research and development on various processes and products intended to comply with the revised specifications and participates in the bidding process for new military products. However, to the extent Brookwood’s products are not included in future purchases by the U.S. government for any reason, Brookwood’s sales could be adversely affected. In addition, the U.S. government is releasing contracts for shorter periods than in the past. The Company acknowledges the unpredictability in revenues and margins due to military sales and is unable at this time to predict future sales trends. Concentration of Credit. The financial instruments that potentially subject Brookwood to concentration of credit risk consist principally of accounts receivable. Brookwood grants credit to customers based on an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition. Exposure to losses on receivables is principally dependent on each customer’s financial condition. Brookwood manages its exposure to credit risks through credit approvals, credit limits, monitoring procedures and the use of factors. Brookwood continues to monitor its customers and the effect the current economic crisis may have upon their ability to fulfill their obligations to Brookwood in a timely manner. The financial markets’ inability to determine the extent and longevity of the current economic downturn may have an effect upon Brookwood’s customers that cannot be determined at this time. As of March 1, 2009, Brookwood’s key customers were complying with their payment terms. The amount of receivables that Brookwood can factor is subject to certain limitations as specified in individual factoring agreements. The factoring agreements expose Brookwood to credit risk if any of the factors fail to meet their obligations. Brookwood seeks to manage this risk by conducting business with a number of reputable factors and monitoring the factors’ performance under their agreements. Brookwood continues to monitor its factors and the effect the current economic crisis may have upon their ability to fulfill their obligations to Brookwood in a timely manner. The financial markets’ inability to determine the extent and longevity of the current economic downturn may have an effect upon Brookwood’s factors that cannot be determined at this time. As of March 1, 2009, all of Brookwood’s factors were complying with payment terms in accordance with factor agreements. Loan Covenants. Brookwood’s revolving credit agreement requires compliance with various loan covenants and financial ratios, principally a total debt to tangible net worth ratio of 1.50 and a requirement that net income in each quarter must exceed one dollar. Brookwood was in compliance with its principal loan covenants as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and for all interim periods during 2008 and 2007, although a waiver regarding a pro forma (inclusive of projected dividend) total debt to tangible net worth ratio for the 2007 third quarter was granted to allow a $1,500,000 dividend payment in November 2007 and an amendment to the revolving credit facility was entered into in June 2008 to allow a $4,800,000 dividend payment in June 2008 and restrict calendar 2008 total dividends from Brookwood to $9,300,000. 7 Table of Contents Environmental. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are subject to a broad range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the pollution and protection of the environment. Among the many environmental requirements applicable to Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are laws relating to air emissions, ozone depletion, wastewater discharges and the handling, disposal and release of solid and hazardous substances and wastes. Based on continuing internal review and advice from independent consultants, Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating believe that they are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are also subject to such laws as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), that may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at on-site or off-site locations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are not aware of any releases for which they may be liable under CERCLA or any analogous provision. Actions by federal, state and local governments concerning environmental matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of producing the products manufactured by Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating or otherwise adversely affect demand for their products. Widespread adoption of any prohibitions or restrictions could adversely affect the cost and/or the ability to produce products and thereby have a material adverse effect upon Kenyon, Brookwood Laminating or Brookwood. Brookwood does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of its efforts to comply with environmental requirements. Some risk of environmental liability is inherent, however, in the nature of Brookwood’s business. There can be no assurance that material environmental liabilities will not arise. It is also possible that future developments in environmental regulation could lead to material environmental compliance or cleanup costs. Patent and Trademark. Brookwood considers its patents and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to its business and seeks to protect this proprietary know-how in part through U.S. patent and trademark registrations. No assurance can be given, however, that such protection will give Brookwood any material competitive advantage. In addition, Brookwood maintains certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, it has not sought patent or trademark protection. As a result, such trade secrets could be infringed upon and such infringement could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position. In July 2007, Nextec Applications Inc. filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York claiming that Brookwood infringed five United States patents pertaining to internally-coated webs. Brookwood timely answered the lawsuit. Nextec sought leave of Court to add two additional patents to the lawsuit: U.S. Patent No. 5,954,902 and 6,289,841. The Court granted leave to Nextec, and Nextec filed its amended complaint September 19, 2008. Brookwood intends to vigorously defend all claims. Refer to Item 3. — Legal Proceedings for a further description of this lawsuit. Competition. The cyclical nature of the textile and apparel industries, characterized by rapid shifts in military procurement, fashion and consumer demand and competitive pressures, results in both price and demand volatility. The demand for any particular product varies from time to time based largely upon changes in military specifications, consumer and industrial preferences, and general economic conditions affecting the textile and apparel industries, such as consumer expenditures for non-durable goods. The textile and apparel industries are also cyclical because the supply of particular products changes as competitors enter or leave the market. Brookwood sells primarily to domestic manufacturers, some of which operate offshore sewing operations. Some of Brookwood’s customers have moved their business offshore during the past few years. Brookwood has responded by shipping fabric Asia to Asia and also by supplying finished products and garments directly to manufacturers. Brookwood competes with numerous domestic and foreign fabric manufacturers, including companies larger in size and having greater financial resources than Brookwood. The principal competitive factors in the woven fabrics markets are price, service, delivery time, quality and flexibility, with the relative importance of each factor depending upon the needs of particular customers and the specific product offering. Brookwood’s management believes that Brookwood maintains its ability to compete effectively by providing its customers with a broad array of high-quality fabrics at competitive prices on a timely basis. There are an increasing number of competitors entering the military market. These competitors vary and include converters from other market segments, as well as major mills, some of which are Brookwood suppliers, 8 Table of Contents who are selectively targeting specific military specifications. As these companies enter the military market, the competitive pressures may result in further price and demand volatility. Brookwood’s competitive position varies by product line. There are several major domestic competitors in the synthetic fabrics business, none of which dominates the market. Brookwood believes, however, that it has a strong competitive position. In addition, Brookwood believes it is one of a few finishers successful in printing camouflage on nylon for sale to apparel suppliers of the U.S. government. Additional competitive strengths of Brookwood include: knowledge of its customers’ business needs; its ability to design and produce special fabrics such as textured blends; waterproof breathable fabrics; state of the art fabric finishing equipment at its facilities; substantial vertical integration; and its ability to communicate electronically with its customers. Imports and Worldwide Trade Practices. Imports of foreign-made textile and apparel products are a significant source of competition for most sectors of the domestic textile industry. The U.S. government has attempted to regulate the growth of certain textile and apparel imports through tariffs and bilateral agreements, which establish quotas on imports from lesser-developed countries that historically account for significant shares of U.S. imports. Despite these efforts, imported apparel, which represents the area of heaviest import penetration, is estimated to represent in excess of 90% of the U.S. market. The U.S. textile industry has been and continues to be negatively impacted by existing worldwide trade practices, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”), anti-dumping and duty enforcement activities by the U.S. Government and by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies. The establishment of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) in 1995 has resulted in the phase out of quotas on textiles and apparel, effective January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding quota elimination, China’s accession agreement for membership in the WTO provides that WTO member countries (including the United States, Canada and European countries) may re-impose quotas on specific categories of products in the event it is determined that imports from China have surged and are threatening to create a market disruption for such categories of products. During 2005, the United States and China agreed to a new quota arrangement, which imposed quotas on certain textile products through the end of 2008. The United States may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries) in such increased quantities as to cause (or threaten) serious damage to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as “anti-dumping” actions). In addition, China has imposed an export tax on all textile products manufactured in China; Brookwood does not believe this tax will have a material impact on its business. The United States and China have not finalized a new quota arrangement subsequent to December 31, 2008. Under NAFTA there are no textile and apparel quotas between the U.S. and either Mexico or Canada for products that meet certain origin criteria. Tariffs among the three countries are either already zero or are being phased out. Also, the WTO recently phased out textile and apparel quotas. The U.S. has also approved the Central American Free Trade Agreement (“CAFTA”) with several Central American countries (Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua). Under CAFTA, textile and apparel originating from CAFTA countries will be duty and quota-free, provided that yarn formed in the United States or other CAFTA countries is used to produce the fabric. In addition, the United States recently implemented bilateral free trade agreements with Bahrain, Chile, Israel, Jordan, Morocco and Singapore. Although these actions have the effect of exposing Brookwood’s market to the lower price structures of the other countries and, therefore, continuing to increase competitive pressures, management is not able to predict their specific impact. In 2002, the U.S. government unveiled a proposal to eliminate worldwide tariffs for manufactured goods by 2015. The European Union has also proposed significant reductions in tariffs. These proposals have been discussed during the ongoing WTO Doha Round of multilateral negotiations, and could lead to further significant changes in worldwide tariffs beyond those already anticipated. Accordingly, Brookwood believes it must fully utilize other competitive strategies to replace sales lost to importers. One strategy is to identify new market niches. In addition to its existing products and proprietary technologies, Brookwood has been developing advanced breathable, waterproof laminate and other materials, which have been well received by its customers. Continued development of these fabrics for military, industrial and consumer application is a key element of Brookwood’s business plan. The ongoing enterprise value of Brookwood is contingent on its ability to maintain its level of military business and 9 Table of Contents adapt to the global textile industry; however, there can be no assurance that the positive results of the past can be sustained or that competitors will not aggressively seek to replace products developed by Brookwood. The U.S. government engaged in discussions with a number of countries or trading blocs with the intent of further liberalizing trade. Authority to negotiate new “fast track” agreements has been granted by Congress, making new agreements in this field more likely. The U.S. government has also entered into a free trade agreement with Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Israel, Jordan, Morocco and Singapore. Labor Relations. Kenyon entered into a three-year collective bargaining agreement with the UNITE HERE! union, representing approximately 245 employees at its Rhode Island plant facility, effective from March 1, 2007 through February 28, 2010. The union has expressed concerns over certain aspects of that agreement. Kenyon’s management continues to work in good faith to maintain its previous positive relationship with its union employees, as it has with its non-union employees. Brookwood is Dependent on its Key Personnel Whose Continued Service Is Not Guaranteed. Brookwood is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Risks Related to our Energy Business The Company’s energy investment may be affected by the following risk factors, each of which could adversely affect the value of the investment. Bankruptcy filing by Hallwood Energy. On March 1, 2009, Hallwood Energy, L.P., HEM (the general partner of Hallwood Energy), and Hallwood Energy’s subsidiaries, filed petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The cases are being jointly administered and are pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division, in In re Hallwood Energy, L.P., et al, Case No. 09-31253. In addition, as described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, Hallwood Energy has filed a lawsuit against the Company seeking that the Company contribute to Hallwood Energy an additional $3.2 million pursuant to an Equity Support Agreement. The bankruptcy court has granted Hallwood Energy authority to use its existing cash collateral for operating needs through May 2009. On April 8, 2009, Hallwood Energy’s primary secured lender filed a motion for relief from the automatic stay seeking authority to foreclose on real and personal property owned by Hallwood Energy. Hallwood Energy will be seeking to develop a plan of reorganization with the goal of enabling it to continue operations. However, Hallwood Energy has not yet proposed a plan and there is no assurance that a plan will be developed, approved or successfully implemented or that the existing investors in Hallwood Energy will have any continuing interest in the reorganized entity. Accordingly, the extent or value of the Company’s continuing interest in Hallwood Energy, if any, is uncertain. Volatility of Natural Gas Prices. A decline in natural gas prices could adversely affect financial results. Revenues, operating results, profitability, cash flows, future rate of growth and the value of the natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices received for natural gas sold. Historically, the markets for natural gas have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including: worldwide and domestic supplies of natural gas; weather conditions; the level of consumer demand; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the availability of pipeline capacity; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future natural gas price movements. Declines in natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of natural gas that can be produced economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and reserves for Hallwood Energy. Drilling Activities. Hallwood Energy’s success is materially dependent upon the success of its drilling program. Future drilling activities may not be successful and, if drilling activities are unsuccessful, such failure will have an adverse effect on Hallwood Energy’s future results of operations and financial condition. Oil and gas 10 Table of Contents drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered, even if the reserves targeted are classified as proved. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. Although numerous drilling prospects have been identified, there can be no assurance that such prospects will be drilled or that oil or natural gas will be produced from any such identified prospects or any other prospects. Significant Capital Expenditures Required. Hallwood Energy’s acquisition, exploration and development activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, these capital expenditures have been funded through operations, debt and equity issuances. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as level of production, natural gas prices and its success in developing and producing new reserves, as well as availability of additional debt or equity capital. Hallwood Energy requires access to debt and equity capital in order to have sufficient funds to complete the capital expenditures required to fully develop its reserves. Regulations. The oil and gas industry is subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level, and some of the laws, rules and regulations carry substantial penalties for noncompliance. Such regulations include requirements for permits to drill and to conduct other operations and for provision of financial assurances covering drilling and well operations. Operations are also subject to various conservation regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units and the unitization or pooling of oil or natural gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production. Environmental regulations concerning the discharge of contaminants into the environment, the disposal of contaminants and the protection of public health, natural resources and wildlife affect exploration, development and production operations. Under state and federal laws, Hallwood Energy could be required to remove or remedy previously disposed wastes or suspend operations in contaminated areas or perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination. Competition. Hallwood Energy operates in a highly competitive area of acquisition, development, exploration and production of natural gas properties with competitors who have greater financial and other resources. Competitors from both major and independent oil and natural gas companies may be able to pay more for development prospects than the financial resources or human resources of Hallwood Energy permit. Hallwood Energy’s ability to develop and exploit its natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on its ability to successfully conduct operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Quantity and Present Value of Reserves. Financial information for Hallwood Energy is based on estimates of proved reserves and the estimated future net revenues for the proved reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions relating to natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating natural gas reserves is complex and these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual results will most likely vary from these estimates. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of an estimate. Operational Hazards. Natural gas operations are subject to many environmental hazards and risks, including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failures, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, brine or well fluids, and other hazards and risks. Drilling operations involve risks from high pressures and mechanical difficulties such as stuck pipes, collapsed casings and separated cables. If any of these risks occur, substantial losses could result from injury or loss of life, severe damages to or destruction of property, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. Insurance is maintained against some of these risks, but may not adequately cover all of a catastrophic loss. Loan Indebtedness and Covenants. In April 2007, Hallwood Energy entered into a $100,000,000 senior secured credit facility (the “Senior Secured Credit Facility”) with an affiliate of one of the investors. As of 11 Table of Contents December 31, 2007, Hallwood Energy borrowed the full amount available under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and in January 2008, entered into a second loan facility (the “Junior Credit Facility” and together with the Senior Secured Credit Facility, the “Secured Credit Facilities”) with the same lender and borrowed the full $15,000,000 available under the Junior Credit Facility. The level of indebtedness affects Hallwood Energy’s operations in various ways: a portion of cash flows must be used to service the debt and is not available for other purposes; it may put Hallwood Energy at a competitive disadvantage as compared to companies with less debt; and loan covenants may limit Hallwood Energy’s financial and operational flexibility. The Secured Credit Facilities contain various financial covenants, including maximum general and administrative expenditures and current and proved collateral coverage ratios. Hallwood Energy is in default of various covenants under the Secured Credit Facilities, but under the automatic stay provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code, Hallwood Energy’s lender has not been able to foreclose on its collateral. The Secured Credit Facilities contain a make-whole provision whereby Hallwood Energy is required to pay the lender the present value amount of interest that would have been payable on the principal balance of the loan from the date of prepayment through February 8, 2010. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 