Item 1A. Risk Factors Additional liabilities and expenses may reduce the amount available for distribution to shareholders from the liquidating trust. The Company might incur additional claims, liabilities and other expenses (such as regulatory filings, legal expenses, consulting fees. taxes and miscellaneous office expenses). These amounts will reduce the extent to which assets will be available for distribution to shareholders from the liquidating trust in the future. The Company or PCW may be subject to substantial income tax liability as a result of the asset contribution and the exchange of the Preferred Exchangeable Interest. Although Proskauer Rose LLP has opined, subject to certain assumptions and conditions, that neither the asset contribution nor the exchange of the Preferred Exchangeable Interest for Verizon common stock should be a taxable transaction to PCC or PCW, there is a risk that the asset contribution or the exchange will be a taxable transaction, which may result, in either case, in PCC or PCW incurring in excess of $500 million of federal, state and local income tax liability. If we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, each shareholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of his or her pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such shareholder. In the event we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, each shareholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of such shareholder’s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such shareholder. Although the liability of any shareholder is limited to the amounts previously received by such shareholder from us (and from any liquidating trust or trusts) in the dissolution, this means that a shareholder could be required to return all distributions previously made to such shareholder and receive nothing from us under the Plan. Moreover, in the event a shareholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a shareholder incurring a net tax cost if the shareholder’s repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. While we will endeavor to make adequate reserves for all known and contingent liabilities, there is no guarantee that the reserves established by us will be adequate to cover all such expenses and liabilities. We continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We expect to apply to the Securities and Exchange Commission for relief from the reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for a period beginning after August 2007. We cannot guarantee that the Securities and Exchange Commission will grant us the requested relief. If such relief is not granted, we will have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. There is no trading market for the interests in the liquidating trust. There is no trading market for the interests in the liquidating trust, and it is not anticipated that such a market will develop in the foreseeable future. 5 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 