Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to the Company A significant stockholder has the ability to substantially influence the Company and it may conflict with or differ from other stockholders. Hallwood Financial Limited (“Hallwood Financial”), a corporation controlled by the Company’s chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Anthony J. Gumbiner and members of his family, owns approximately 66% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of March 28, 2011. Accordingly, Mr. Gumbiner can exert substantial influence over the affairs of the Company. The Company’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The Company is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, loss of their services could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Brookwood’s ability to pay cash dividends and tax sharing payments to the Company are contingent upon Brookwood’s compliance with loan covenants required by its revolving credit agreement. Cash dividends and tax sharing payments by Brookwood to the Company are contingent upon compliance with the loan covenants in Brookwood’s Working Capital Revolving Credit Facility with Key Bank National Association. This limitation on the transferability of assets could adversely affect the Company’s operations if such payments were restricted. Compliance with corporate governance and disclosure standards is costly. The Company has spent and continues to spend a significant amount of management time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), SEC regulations and stock exchange rules. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires management’s annual review and evaluation of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and attestations of 6 Table of Contents the effectiveness of these controls by management. Because the Company qualifies as a smaller reporting company, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm is not required to provide an attestation report. In early 2008, the Company completed its first Section 404 report for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company continued to enhance its internal controls and completed its annual review and evaluation of its internal controls and issued its Section 404 report for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, in April 2009, March 2010 and April 2011, respectively. However, there is no guarantee that the Company will receive management assurance that internal control over financial reporting is effective in future periods. In the event that the Company’s chief executive officer or chief financial officer determines that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is not effective as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, investor perceptions of the Company may be adversely affected. In addition, overhead may increase as a result of the additional costs associated with complying with the complex legal requirements associated with being a public reporting company. Litigation may adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of litigation matters, as described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this report. Although the Company does not believe that the results of any of these matters are likely to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows, it is possible that any of the matters could result in material liability to the Company. In addition, the Company has spent and will likely continue to spend significant amounts in professional fees and associated costs in connection with these matters. Risks related to our Textile Products Business The Company’s textile products business may be affected by the following risk factors, each of which could adversely affect the Company. Brookwood depends upon a limited number of third-party suppliers for raw materials. Brookwood purchases a significant amount of the fabric and other materials it processes and sells from a small number of suppliers. Brookwood believes that the loss of any one of its direct suppliers would not have a long-term material adverse effect because other manufacturers with which Brookwood conducts business would be able to fulfill those requirements. However, the loss of certain of Brookwood’s suppliers could, in the short term, adversely affect Brookwood’s business until alternative supply arrangements were secured. In addition, there can be no assurance that any new supply arrangements would have terms as favorable as those contained in current supply arrangements. Some of Brookwood’s suppliers are entering the military markets in competition to Brookwood, targeting specific military specifications. However, there has been no material effect upon Brookwood’s business relationship to date. As of March 31, 2011, Brookwood has not experienced any significant disruptions in supply as a result of shortages in fabrics or other materials from its suppliers. The loss of one or more of Brookwood’s key customers could result in a significant loss of revenues. Brookwood has several customers who accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in one or more of the three years ended December 31, 2010. Sales to one Brookwood customer, Tennier Industries, Inc. (“Tennier”), accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in each of the three years ended December 31, 2010. Brookwood’s relationship with Tennier is ongoing. Sales to Tennier, which are included in military sales, were $51,637,000, $60,994,000, $47,310,000 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which represented 30.7%, 34.0% and 29.2% of Brookwood’s sales. Sales to another customer, ORC Industries, Inc. (“ORC”), accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in 2009 and 2008. Brookwood’s relationship with ORC is ongoing. Sales to ORC, which are also included in military sales, were $14,375,000, $24,598,000 and $18,436,000 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which represented 8.5%, 13.7% and 11.4% of Brookwood’s sales. Sales to another customer accounted for slightly more than 10% of sales for 2008 only. Brookwood’s relationship with the customer is ongoing. Sales to that customer, which are also included in military sales, were $16,752,000 in 2008, which represented 10.3% of Brookwood’s sales. Military sales were $114,266,000, $130,103,000 and $101,813,000 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which represented 67.9%, 72.5% and 62.8% of Brookwood’s sales. While Brookwood has enjoyed substantial growth in its military business, there is no assurance this trend will continue. Brookwood’s sales to the customers from whom it derives its military business have been volatile and difficult to predict, a trend the Company believes will continue. In recent years, orders from the military for goods generally were significantly affected by the 7 Table of Contents increased activity of the U.S. military. If this activity does not continue or declines, then orders from the military generally, including orders for Brookwood’s products, may be similarly affected. Changes in military procurement practices or regulations could adversely affect Brookwood’s business. From time to time, the military limits orders for existing products and adopts revised specifications for new products to replace the products for which Brookwood’s customers have been suppliers. The U.S. government released orders in recent years that include Brookwood’s products, which resulted in substantial military sales. Changes in specifications or orders present a potential opportunity for additional sales; however, it is a continuing challenge to adjust to changing specifications and production requirements. Brookwood has regularly conducted research and development on various processes and products intended to comply with the revised specifications and participates in the bidding process for new military products. However, to the extent Brookwood’s products are not included in future purchases by the U.S. government for any reason, Brookwood’s sales could be adversely affected. A provision of U.S. federal law, known as the Berry Amendment, generally requires the Department of Defense to give preference in procurement to domestically produced products, including textiles. Brookwood’s sales of products to the U.S. military market is highly dependent upon the continuing application and enforcement of the Berry Amendment by the U.S. government. In addition, the U.S. government is releasing contracts for shorter periods than in the past. The Company acknowledges the unpredictability in revenues and margins due to military sales and is unable at this time to predict future sales trends. Global capital and credit market conditions could have a material adverse effect on Brookwood’s business, operating results and financial condition. The financial instruments that potentially subject Brookwood to concentration of credit risk consist principally of accounts receivable. Brookwood grants credit to customers based on an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition. Exposure to losses on receivables is principally dependent on each customer’s financial condition. Brookwood manages its exposure to credit risks through credit approvals, credit limits, monitoring procedures and the use of factors. Brookwood continues to monitor its customers and the effect the current economic conditions may have upon their ability to fulfill their obligations to Brookwood in a timely manner. As of March 31, 2011, Brookwood’s key customers were complying with their payment terms. Brookwood maintains factoring agreements which provide that receivables resulting from credit sales to customers, excluding the U.S. government, may be sold to the factor, subject to a commission and the factor’s prior approval. The amount of receivables that Brookwood can factor is subject to certain limitations as specified in individual factoring agreements. The factoring agreements expose Brookwood to credit risk if any of the factors fail to meet their obligations. Brookwood seeks to manage this risk by conducting business with a number of reputable factors and monitoring the factors’ performance under their agreements. Brookwood continues to monitor its factors and their ability to fulfill their obligations to Brookwood in a timely manner. As of March 31, 2011, all of Brookwood’s factors were complying with payment terms in accordance with factor agreements. Brookwood’s ability to comply with its revolving credit agreement is subject to future performance and other factors. Brookwood’s revolving credit agreement requires compliance with various loan covenants and financial ratios, principally (i) a total debt to tangible net worth ratio of 1.50; (ii) a requirement that net income in each quarter must exceed one dollar and (iii) a covenant of total funded debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), for the trailing four quarters, ratio not to exceed 2.00. Brookwood was in compliance with its principal loan covenants as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and for all interim periods during those years. If Brookwood does not comply with these covenants for any quarter, under its Working Capital Revolving Credit Facility with Key Bank National Association, the bank may require payment of outstanding amounts and prohibit cash dividends and tax sharing payments by Brookwood to the Company. Primarily as a result of a reduction in the volume of military orders during the fourth quarter of 2010 and first quarter of 2011, Brookwood’s revenue and net income have decreased from the first half of 2010. Continued compliance with the covenants under its Working Capital Revolving Credit Facility depend primarily on Brookwood’s military orders during 2011 increasing from the levels in the fourth quarter of 2010 and first quarter of 2011. Brookwood is subject to many environmental regulations that may result in significant costs or liabilities or cause interruptions in its operations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are subject to a broad range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the pollution and protection of the environment. Among the many environmental requirements applicable to Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are laws relating to air emissions, 8 Table of Contents ozone depletion, wastewater discharges and the handling, disposal and release of solid and hazardous substances and wastes. Based on continuing internal review and advice from independent consultants, Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating believe that they are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are also subject to such laws as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), that may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at on-site or off-site locations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are not aware of any releases for which they may be liable under CERCLA or any analogous provision. Actions by federal, state and local governments concerning environmental matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of producing the products manufactured by Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating or otherwise adversely affect demand for their products. Widespread adoption of any prohibitions or restrictions could adversely affect the cost and/or the ability to produce products and thereby have a material adverse effect upon Kenyon, Brookwood Laminating or Brookwood. Brookwood does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of its efforts to comply with environmental requirements. Some risk of environmental liability is inherent, however, in the nature of Brookwood’s business. There can be no assurance that material environmental liabilities will not arise. It is also possible that future developments in environmental regulation could lead to material environmental compliance or cleanup costs. Brookwood’s business could lose a significant competitive advantage if it fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights. Brookwood considers its patents and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to its business and seeks to protect this proprietary know-how in part through U.S. patent and trademark registrations. No assurance can be given, however, that such protection will give Brookwood any material competitive advantage. In addition, Brookwood maintains certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, it has not sought patent or trademark protection. As a result, such trade secrets could be infringed upon and such infringement could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position. In July 2007, Nextec Applications Inc. filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York claiming that Brookwood infringed five United States patents pertaining to internally-coated webs. Nextec later added additional patents to the lawsuit. On April 1, 2010, the Court issued its initial Order, following a hearing held on February 17, 2010 on various motions for summary judgment filed by both parties. In the Order, the Court dismissed Nextec’s claims for infringement based on seven of the ten remaining patent claims asserted in the action. On June 28, 2010, Brookwood filed a renewed motion for summary judgment with respect to one of the remaining patent claims, which was denied by Order entered on March 8, 2011 due to the presence of a disputed issue of fact. Brookwood intends to vigorously defend against any remaining claims. Trial on this matter is currently scheduled to begin on October 31, 2011. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this report for a further description of this lawsuit. The strength of Brookwood’s competitors may impact its ability to maintain and grow sales, which could decrease revenues. The cyclical nature of the textile and apparel industries, characterized by rapid shifts in military procurement, fashion and consumer demand and competitive pressures, results in both price and demand volatility. The demand for any particular product varies from time to time based largely upon changes in military specifications, consumer and industrial preferences, and general economic conditions affecting the textile and apparel industries, such as consumer expenditures for non-durable goods. The textile and apparel industries are also cyclical because the supply of particular products changes as competitors enter or leave the market. Brookwood sells primarily to domestic manufacturers, some of which operate offshore sewing operations. Some of Brookwood’s customers have moved their business offshore. Brookwood has responded by shipping fabric Asia to Asia and also by supplying finished products and garments directly to manufacturers. Brookwood competes with numerous domestic and foreign fabric manufacturers, including companies larger in size and having greater financial resources than Brookwood. The principal competitive factors in the woven fabrics markets are price, service, delivery time, quality and flexibility, with the relative importance of each factor depending upon the needs of particular customers and the specific product offering. Brookwood’s management believes that Brookwood 9 Table of Contents maintains its ability to compete effectively by providing its customers with a broad array of high-quality fabrics at competitive prices on a timely basis. There are an increasing number of competitors entering the military market. These competitors vary and include converters from other market segments, as well as major mills, some of which are Brookwood suppliers, who are selectively targeting specific military specifications. As these companies enter the military market, the competitive pressures may result in further price and demand volatility. Changes in the trade regulatory environment could weaken Brookwood’s competitive position and have a material adverse effect on its business, net sales and profitability. Imports of foreign-made textile and apparel products are a significant source of competition for most sectors of the domestic textile industry. The U.S. government has attempted to regulate the growth of certain textile and apparel imports through tariffs and bilateral agreements, which establish quotas on imports from lesser-developed countries that historically account for significant shares of U.S. imports. Despite these efforts, imported apparel, which represents the area of heaviest import penetration, is estimated to represent in excess of 90% of the U.S. market. The U.S. textile industry has been and continues to be negatively impacted by existing worldwide trade practices, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”), the Central American Free Trade Agreement (“CAFTA”), anti-dumping and duty enforcement activities by the U.S. government and by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies. The establishment of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) in 1995 has resulted in the phase out of quotas on textiles and apparel, effective January 1, 2005. Brookwood does not believe these developments will have a material impact on its business. Under NAFTA and CAFTA there are no textile and apparel quotas between the U.S. and the other parties for products that meet certain origin criteria. Tariffs among the countries are either already zero or are being phased out. Although these actions have the effect of exposing Brookwood’s market to the lower price structures of the other countries and, therefore, continuing to increase competitive pressures, management is not able to predict their specific impact. Accordingly, Brookwood believes it must fully utilize other competitive strategies to replace sales lost to importers. One strategy is to identify new market niches. In addition to its existing products and proprietary technologies, Brookwood has developed advanced breathable, waterproof laminate and other materials, which have been well received by its customers. Continued development of these fabrics for military, industrial and consumer application is a key element of Brookwood’s business plan. The U.S. government is engaged in discussions with a number of countries or trading blocs with the intent of further liberalizing trade. Authority to negotiate new “fast track” agreements has been granted by Congress, making new agreements in this field more likely. Any employee slowdown or strike or the failure to renew the collective bargaining agreement could disrupt Brookwood’s business. Although, in 2010, Kenyon entered into an agreement for a new three-year collective bargaining agreement with Local 1321T of the New England Joint Board of UNITE HERE! union, representing approximately 250 employees at its Rhode Island plant facility, effective from March 1, 2010 through February 28, 2013, any employee slowdown or strike or failure to renew the collective bargaining agreement in 2013 could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Brookwood’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. Brookwood is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Investments in Financial Instruments The Company and Brookwood invest in cash equivalents and marketable securities that carry investment risk and may incur loss. As of December 31, 2010, the Company and Brookwood invested excess cash in a variety of highly liquid cash equivalents, such as money market funds, and certain marketable securities, variable-rate demand notes. Although the variable-rate demand notes have long-term nominal maturity dates, the interest rates generally 10 Table of Contents reset weekly. Despite the long-term nature of the variable rate demand notes, the Company believes that it has the ability to quickly liquidate these securities, which have an embedded put option that allows the bondholder to sell the security at par plus accrued interest. While the Company and Brookwood believe their investments in cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2010 carry limited risk, no guarantee is made that the investments will be recovered at their full value. The Company’s investment activities in the UBS account, which was opened in the 2011 first quarter, will be subject to a number of risks, including those described below. The Company will attempt to assess these risk factors, and others, in determining the extent of the position it will take in the relevant securities and the price it is willing to pay for such securities. However, such risks cannot be eliminated. The Company and its executives have limited experience in investment activities similar to those in which the Company intends to engage. The Company has not previously invested in instruments similar to those in which it intends to invest through the UBS account, although Mr. Gumbiner, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer has managed similar investments through other entities with which he is associated. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts will be successful and there is a risk that the Company could suffer significant losses through its investments. The Company’s investment activities will be dependent upon one key individual. The success of the Company’s investments is expected to be significantly dependent upon the expertise of Mr. Gumbiner, its Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Gumbiner’s services for any reason could be detrimental to the Company. The Company may change its investment strategy without notice, which may result in it making investments that entail more risk than its disclosed investments. The Company’s investment strategy may evolve, in light of existing market conditions and investment opportunities, and this evolution may involve additional risks. Investment opportunities that present unattractive risk-return profiles relative to other available investment opportunities under particular market conditions may become relatively attractive under changed market conditions and changes in market conditions may therefore result in changes in the investments targeted. Decisions to make investments in new asset categories present risks that may be difficult for the Company to assess adequately and could therefore have adverse effects on the Company’s financial condition. A change in the Company’s investment strategy may also increase its exposure to interest rate, commodity, foreign currency or credit market fluctuations. The Company’s failure to assess accurately the risks inherent in new asset categories or the financing risks associated with such assets could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The Company may invest in foreign securities, which have risks different than those associated with investing in U.S. securities. The Company intends to acquire U.S. and non-U.S. securities and other instruments, which may be denominated in non-U.S. currencies and/or traded outside of the United States. To the extent these positions include non-U.S. securities or instruments denominated in non-U.S. currencies or are traded outside of the U.S., such positions require consideration of certain risks not typically associated with trading United States’ securities or property. Such risks include unfavorable currency or exchange rate developments, restrictions on repatriation of investment income and capital, imposition of exchange control regulation by the United States or foreign governments, confiscatory taxation and economic or political instability in foreign nations. In addition, there may be less publicly available information about non-U.S. companies than would be the case for comparable companies in the United States, and non-U.S. companies may not be subject to accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards and requirements comparable to or as uniform as those of U.S. companies. The Company may incur losses in its investments. All securities positions taken by the Company risk the loss of capital. The Company intends to moderate this risk through a careful selection of securities and other financial instruments. No guarantee or representation is made that the Company’s program will be successful. The Company’s program may utilize such techniques as trading in derivatives, limited diversification and margin transactions and short sales, which practices can, in certain circumstances, increase the adverse impact to which the Company may be subject. As part of its program, the Company may acquire positions in securities and other instruments that may result in significant returns to the Company, but that involve a substantial degree of risk. The Company may lose a substantial portion or all of its investment or may be required to accept cash or securities with a value less than the 11 Table of Contents Company’s investment. The market prices of the instruments in which the Company may invest are also subject to abrupt and erratic market movements and above average price volatility, and the spread between the bid and asked prices of such instruments may be greater than normally expected. The Company’s investments may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. The values of certain securities are sensitive to movements in interest rates and, as such, are subject to interest rate risk. Fixed-income securities generally decrease in value as a result of increases in interest rates and/or spreads. The Company may invest in derivatives, which may increase the risk of the Company’s activities. In connection with its activities through the UBS account, the Company may invest in derivative instruments. Derivative instruments, or “derivatives,” include options, futures and other instruments and contracts that are derived from or the value of which is related to one or more underlying securities, financial benchmarks, currencies or indices. Derivatives allow an investor to hedge or speculate upon the price movements of a particular security, financial benchmark currency or index at a fraction of the cost of investing in the underlying asset. There is no assurance that derivatives that the Company may acquire will be available at any particular times upon satisfactory terms or at all. The value of a derivative is frequently difficult to determine and depends largely upon price movements in the underlying asset. Therefore, many of the risks applicable to trading the underlying asset are also applicable to derivatives of such asset. However, there are a number of other risks associated with derivatives trading. For example, because many derivatives are “leveraged,” and thus provide significantly more market exposure than the money paid or deposited when the transaction is entered into, a relatively small adverse market movement can not only result in the loss of the entire investment, but may also expose the Company to the possibility of a loss exceeding the original amount invested. In addition, the Company will be exposed to the risk of non-performance of contracts, for financial and other reasons, on the part of counterparties with which the Company enters into derivatives agreements. The Company will not be subject to regulatory oversight as an investment company. While the Company’s activities in the UBS account may be considered similar to those of an investment company, the Company is not registered as such under the ICA, in reliance upon an exemption available to companies the primary business of which is other than investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and, accordingly, the provisions of the ICA (which among other things, require investment companies to have a majority of disinterested directors, require securities held in custody to at all times be individually segregated from the securities of any other person and marked to clearly identify such securities as the property of such investment company, and regulate the relationship between the advisor and the investment company) are not applicable. Because securities of the Company held by brokers will generally not be held in the Company’s name, a failure of any such broker is likely to have a greater adverse impact on the Company than if such securities were registered in the Company’s name. If the Company is deemed to be an investment company, there would be an adverse impact on the Company. The ICA defines an investment company as any issuer that is, holds itself out as being, or proposes to be, primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities or any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire “investment securities” having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of United States government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis (the “40% test”). Excluded from the term “investment securities” are, among others, securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries unless the subsidiary is an investment company or relies on specified exceptions from the definition of an investment company. The Company is a holding company. It conducts its operations primarily through Brookwood, its wholly owned subsidiary. Brookwood is not an investment company under the definition in the ICA because its activities and assets consist of its textile products operations. Because the fair market value of the Company’s assets on an unconsolidated basis substantially exceeds the fair market value of the assets the Company intends to hold in the UBS account, and because the Company does not intend that investments in securities constitute a business line of the Company, the Company does not believe that its activities will subject it to regulation under the ICA as an investment company. The Company intends to continue to conduct its operations so that it is not required to register as an investment company under the ICA and to monitor its holdings regularly to confirm its continued compliance with the 40% test. 12 Table of Contents If the Company were deemed to be an investment company and required to register under the ICA, its activities may be restricted, including restrictions on the nature of its investments. In addition, the Company may have imposed upon it burdensome requirements, including registration as an investment company and reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations, with which it may not be able or willing to comply. If it were determined that the Company was an investment company and failed timely to register under the ICA, the penalties and other consequences to the Company could be severe. In order not to be regulated as an investment company under the ICA, the Company must ensure that it is engaged primarily in a business other than investing, reinvesting or trading in securities and that the Company’s activities do not include investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in “investment securities” constituting more than 40% of its assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. The Company’s business will continue to be in the textile industry, conducted through the ownership and operation of its wholly owned Brookwood subsidiary, and not investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. The Company’s investments will be subject to the risks of a general market decline. A decline in the overall market may affect the value of the Company’s investments. The Company’s use of leverage and margin could increase the risks of its investments. The Company may borrow funds to invest through the UBS account or might have long and short positions in excess of the Company’s net assets in order to be able to increase the amount of funds available for securities investments. In addition, the Company may in effect “leverage” its investment return with options, forwards and other derivative instruments. The amount of borrowings that the Company may have outstanding at any time may be significant in relation to its capital. Consequently, the level of interest rates, generally, and the rates at which the Company can borrow, in particular, will affect the operating results of the Company. In general, the Company’s anticipated use of borrowings results in certain additional risks to the Company. For example, should the securities pledged to brokers to secure the Company’s loans decline in value, the Company could be subject to a “margin call”, pursuant to which the Company must either deposit additional funds with the broker, or suffer mandatory liquidation of the pledged securities to compensate for the decline in value. In the event of a sudden precipitous drop in the value of the Company’s assets, the Company might not be able to liquidate assets quickly enough to pay off its debt. The Company may deal with counterparties and custodians who may not properly segregate the Company’s investments. There are risks involved in dealing with the custodians or brokers who settle the Company’s trades, particularly with respect to non-U.S. positions. It is expected that all securities and other assets deposited with custodians or brokers will be clearly identified as being assets of the Company and hence the Company should not be exposed to a credit risk with respect to such parties. However, it may not always be possible to achieve this segregation and there may be practical or timing problems associated with enforcing the Company’s rights to its assets in the case of an insolvency of any such party. The Company may invest in low grade debt securities, which could increase the risk of loss of the investment. The Company may trade in unrated or low grade debt securities that are subject to greater risk of loss of principal and interest than higher-rated debt securities. The Company may trade in debt securities that rank junior to other outstanding securities and obligations of the issuer, all or a significant portion of which may be secured on substantially all of that issuer’s assets. The Company may invest in debt securities that are not protected by financial covenants or limitations on additional indebtedness. In addition, evaluating credit risk for foreign debt securities involves greater uncertainty because credit rating agencies throughout the world have different standards, making comparison across countries difficult. The Company may loan or pledge its securities to other parties, which may subject it to the risk of those parties’ financial condition. Pursuant to master securities lending agreements or similar agreements, the Company may lend securities from its portfolio to brokers, dealers and financial institutions and receive collateral in the form of cash and securities in an amount equal to or greater than the current market value of the loaned securities, including any accrued interest or dividend receivable. The Company will retain all rights of beneficial ownership as to the loaned portfolio securities, including voting rights and rights to interest or other distributions, and will have 13 Table of Contents the right to regain record ownership of the loaned securities to exercise such beneficial rights. Such loans will be terminable at any time. It should be noted that some brokers may lend Company securities to third parties without notice to the Company or the Company and without providing any collateral to the Company. If a broker makes such loans of securities from the Company’s account, the Company may not be able to vote such securities. In addition, if a broker were to become insolvent in the United States, the Company would not have a claim against any specific assets of the broker, but would have a claim against the pool of assets held for the benefit of the broker’s customers. Jurisdictions outside of the United States may not provide any similar rights to the Company. Risks Related to our Energy Business Risk factors for the Company’s energy business are not provided as the Company’s involvement in the energy business ceased in 2009 following the bankruptcy reorganization of its former energy affiliate, Hallwood Energy. In October 2009, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed a plan of reorganization of the debtors that, among other things, extinguished Hallwood Energy’s general partnership and limited partnership interests, including those held by the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 