Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully review and consider the risks described below and the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K before evaluating the Company’s business or making an investment decision. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Investors should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes thereto. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated. Additional risks that the Company does not presently consider material, or of which it is not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on the business. Also see the section of this annual report on Form 10-K entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on Page 3. Risks related to the Company There is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed in depth throughout this annual report on Form 10-K, (i) as a holding company, the Company is dependent upon Brookwood for cash, (ii) the Company does not currently have sufficient cash, either directly or through Brookwood, to pay its operating costs at the holding company level or the HFL Loan (described below), and (iii) Brookwood’s ability to pay the Company a dividend or other advance is dependent upon circumstances that are outside of the Company’s control. The Company can give no assurance that Brookwood will have the ability to satisfy the Company’s cash flow needs, or that the Company would be able to obtain other sources of funding if needed, and therefore there is substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Any failure by Brookwood to pay dividends or tax sharing payments to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. As a holding company, the Company is dependent on Brookwood to receive the cash necessary to fund its ongoing operations and its obligations, including the HFL Loan. At December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately $972,000 of cash and cash equivalents, including a $1,000,000 dividend from Brookwood received in December 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the outstanding balance of the HFL Loan was $5,411,000. Any failure to receive from Brookwood cash required by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows and could substantially impair the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Brookwood’s ability to pay dividends and tax sharing payments or make advances to the Company is contingent upon Brookwood’s compliance with loan covenants and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Brookwood’s ability to pay dividends and tax sharing payments or make advances to the Company are contingent upon Brookwood’s compliance with its loan covenants and is limited by the Amended and Restated Credit Facility with BB&T. This limitation could adversely affect the Company if these payments were restricted and such a restriction could substantially impair the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. On March 28, 2014 Brookwood executed an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as defined and discussed below. Although Brookwood expects to have sufficient borrowing capacity in 2014, dividends and other distributions to Hallwood in 2014 are limited to $750,000 payable after September 30, 2014. In subsequent periods, Brookwood may make dividends and distributions to Hallwood as long as Brookwood is in compliance with both the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and minimum excess availability covenants. 12 Table of Contents In addition to the limitations described in the Amended and Restated Credit Facility, any future payments or advances would also be contingent upon the approval of Brookwood’s board of directors and Brookwood’s ability to meet the requirements of the Delaware corporate laws for the payment of dividends and compliance with other applicable laws and requirements. The voting power in the Company is substantially controlled by one significant stockholder, who has the ability to substantially influence the Company, and the interests of this stockholder may conflict with or differ from those of other stockholders. Hallwood Financial, a corporation controlled by the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Anthony J. Gumbiner, and members of his family, is its largest shareholder, with ownership representing approximately 65.7% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of March 25, 2014. Consequently, Mr. Gumbiner, through Hallwood Financial, is in a position to significantly influence any matters that are brought to a vote of the shareholders, including, but not limited to, the election of members of the Board and any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including any amendments to its governing documents, mergers or sales of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of the Company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Hallwood Financial. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of the Company’s common stock. The Judgment in particular, and litigation in general, have been expensive and have added substantial debt to the Company, which the Company may not be able to repay without new funding, if available. As further discussed in Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10-K, “Legal Proceedings”, in connection with Hallwood Energy’s bankruptcy proceeding, Hallwood Energy and other parties filed a number of lawsuits against the Company, its directors and various other parties. In July 2011, the court in the Adversary Proceeding issued Proposed Findings (as that term is defined in Item 3 of this annual report on Form 10-K) setting forth damages totaling approximately $18,700,000, plus prejudgment and postjudgment interest. In April 2012, the United States District Court substantially adopted the Proposed Findings. The Company satisfied the Judgment of $21,721,000, including prejudgment and postjudgment interest, in May 2012. The Adversary Proceeding was closed by the Bankruptcy Court on November 22, 2013. In May 2012, to fund in part the payment of the Judgment, the Company obtained the $10,000,000 HFL Loan from Hallwood Family (BVI) L.P., a limited partnership associated with Mr. Anthony J. Gumbiner, the Company’s chairman, Chief Executive Officer and principal stockholder (the “HFL Loan”). The HFL Loan is secured by a subordinated pledge of all of the stock of Brookwood and by the Company’s interest in the anticipated refunds of federal income taxes, which were approximately $4,570,000 that the Company received in 2013. In connection with the HFL Loan, a Pledge and Security Agreement and a Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement (“Intercreditor Agreement”) were entered into and effective May 9, 2012. The Intercreditor Agreement, among other things, subordinates any security interest or lien that Hallwood Family (BVI) L.P. may have in certain assets of the Company, including the stock of Brookwood, to BB&T. The HFL Loan bears interest at the rate of 6% per year, payable on a quarterly basis. The Company may prepay the HFL Loan at any time without penalty. The documents reflecting the HFL Loan contain representations, warranties and covenants that are typical for loans of this type. The outstanding balance on the HFL Loan was $8,747,000 at December 31, 2012. On March 11, 2013, the promissory note associated with the HFL Loan was amended to primarily (i) extend the maturity date of the HFL Loan by two years until June 30, 2015 and (ii) provide for an additional advance of $300,000 under the promissory note, resulting in a then outstanding balance of $9,047,000. 13 Table of Contents On May 13, 2013, the promissory note associated with the HFL Loan was amended, pursuant to a Second Amendment to Promissory Note, to convert it to a revolving credit facility, under certain conditions until December 31, 2013, to provide additional liquidity to the Company. The Company was advanced $405,000 under the HFL Loan’s revolving credit facility in May 2013. In late May 2013, the Company received a net refund of approximately $4,300,000 from the IRS of 2010 federal taxes. The proceeds of these funds were used to pay $4,000,000 towards principal and interest outstanding on the HFL Loan, with the balance retained for the Company’s expenses and cash needs. As of December 31, 2013, the outstanding balance of the HFL Loan was $5,411,000. On March 26, 2014, the promissory note associated with the HFL Loan was amended, pursuant to a Third Amendment to Promissory Note, to extend the revolving credit facility under certain conditions until December 31, 2014 to provide up to $3,000,000 in funding for general and administrative expenses of the Company. Hallwood Family (BVI) L.P. will not have any obligation to advance any additional amounts to the Company on or after December 31, 2014. If for any reason Brookwood is unable to pay cash dividends or other advances to the Company, the Company would be required to seek alternative sources of funding. The Company has not yet determined what, if any, sources would be available to it (other than the HFL Loan, which was amended on March 26, 2014 to provide up to $3,000,000 of liquidity in 2014), but may consider such alternatives as an additional or new facility or term loan and potential sales of assets or additional securities. No assurance can be given that any such additional sources of funding will be available to the Company, which could result in the Company not being able to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might result should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. The Company’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. The Company is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, loss of their services could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Risks related to the Company’s Textile Products Business Brookwood relies on sales of its military products for a substantial portion of its revenue and weakness in sales of these products can lead to a significant reduction in profitability. Military sales were $69,419,000, $68,091,000 and $73,906,000 in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which represented 53.7%, 52.2% and 53.0% of Brookwood’s sales. These sales amounts were 2.0% higher in 2013 and 7.9% lower in 2012 from the respective previous years. Generally, military sales represent sales of a product to a customer (prime and sub-prime contractors) that will be incorporated into an end product that will be used to fulfill a U.S. or international military contract. While Brookwood has enjoyed substantial revenues from its military business, sales of, and orders for, such products have been volatile and difficult to predict. In fact, orders have been weak in the fourth quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014 through the date of this annual report on Form 10-K resulting in weak military revenues in the first quarter of 2014. We believe that such reduction of sales and orders is due at least in part to a reduction of deployed troops and continued debate in congress and the administration regarding federal spending. If such conditions persist, orders from the military, including orders for Brookwood’s products, may experience further decline which could have a material adverse effect on Brookwood’s operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Brookwood depends on a few key customers for a significant portion of its annual sales revenue, and loss of one or more of these key customers could result in a significant loss of revenues. Sales to Tennier, a significant customer, accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011. Brookwood’s relationship with Tennier is ongoing. Sales to Tennier, which are included in military sales, were $25,071,000, $21,282,000 and $13,916,000 in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which represented 19.4%, 16.3% and 10.0% of Brookwood’s sales. Brookwood continues to identify new market niches. In addition to its existing products and proprietary technologies, Brookwood has developed advanced breathable, waterproof laminate and other materials, which have been well received by its customers. Continued development of these fabrics for military, industrial and consumer applications is a key element of Brookwood’s business plan. The ongoing success of Brookwood is contingent on its ability to maintain its level of military business or expand its sales of its consumer and industrial product lines. While volatile, the significant opportunities for the military product line necessitate that it be a key focus of Brookwood’s sales and marketing efforts; however, during this time of relative weakness of sales and orders of military products, Brookwood is aggressively seeking new customers and opportunities for our consumer and industrial product lines. There can be no assurance that the positive results of the past can be sustained or that competitors will not aggressively seek to replace products developed by Brookwood. Changes in military procurement practices or regulations could adversely affect Brookwood’s business. From time to time, the military limits orders for existing products and adopts revised specifications for new products to replace the products for which Brookwood’s customers have been suppliers. Adjusting to changing specifications, procurement entity budgets, or orders is a continuing challenge. To the extent Brookwood’s products are not included in future purchases by the U.S. government for any reason, Brookwood’s sales could be adversely affected. A provision of U.S. federal law, known as the Berry Amendment, generally requires the U.S. Department of Defense to give preference in procurement to domestically produced products, including textiles. Brookwood’s sales of products to the U.S. military market are highly dependent upon the continuing application and enforcement of the Berry Amendment by the U.S. government. Brookwood’s management acknowledges the unpredictability in revenues and margins due to military sales and is unable at this time to predict future sales trends. Brookwood depends upon a limited number of third-party suppliers for raw materials, and the loss of certain suppliers could adversely affect Brookwood’s business. As discussed in Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K, Brookwood purchases a significant amount of the fabric and other materials it processes and sells from a small number of suppliers, some of which compete with Brookwood, targeting specific military specifications. The loss of certain of Brookwood’s suppliers could adversely affect Brookwood’s business unless or until alternative supply arrangements were secured. In addition, if Brookwood were able to secure alternative arrangements, there can be no assurance that such arrangements would include terms as favorable to Brookwood as those contained in Brookwood’s current supply arrangements. Brookwood’s factoring agreements expose it to credit risks, which could result in an adverse effect on Brookwood’s business, operating results and financial condition. Brookwood maintains factoring agreements with several factors, which provide that receivables resulting from credit sales to customers, excluding the U.S. government, may be assigned for collection to the factor, subject to a commission and the factor’s prior approval. While factoring credit sales helps to mitigate credit risk related to specific customers, the factoring agreements expose Brookwood to credit risk of the factors if any of them fail to meet their respective obligations. Brookwood seeks to manage this risk by conducting business with a number of reputable factors and monitoring the factors’ performance under their agreements, but there is no guarantee that such factors will have the ability to fulfill their obligations to Brookwood in a timely manner, which failure could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 15 Table of Contents Brookwood’s ability to comply with its Amended and Restated Credit Facility is subject to future performance and other factors. On March 28, 2014, Brookwood and its subsidiaries executed an amended and restated credit agreement with BB&T (the “Amended and Restated Credit Facility”). The Amended and Restated Credit Facility, which matures on March 30, 2016, allows for borrowings based generally on a percentage of eligible receivables with maximum borrowings of $25 million. Interest rates are based on LIBOR plus a margin of between 1.50% and 2.50% based upon the fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Facility. The Amended and Restated Credit Facility contains a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio covenant and a minimum excess availability covenant, each as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Facility. The minimum fixed charge coverage ratio is 1.10 to 1.00 and will be measured quarterly beginning with the quarter ended September 30, 2014. The minimum excess availability covenant is measured monthly. In 2014, dividends and other distributions to Hallwood are limited to $750,000 payable after September 30, 2014. In subsequent periods, Brookwood may make dividends and distributions to Hallwood as long as Brookwood is in compliance with both the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and minimum excess availability covenants. While borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility are likely to be limited to amounts less than $25 million, management believes that it will provide adequate liquidity for Brookwood through at least December 31, 2014. Should Brookwood, at its option, terminate its factoring relationship with BB&T, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility would also terminate. Brookwood management at this time has no intention of terminating its factoring relationship with BB&T during the term of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility. As of March 28, 2014, subject to the provisions of the Amended and Restated Credit Facility and current borrowings of approximately $4 million, Brookwood had unused borrowing availability of approximately $4 million under this credit facility. The strength of Brookwood’s competitors may impact its ability to maintain and grow sales, which could decrease revenues. The cyclical nature of the textile and apparel industries, characterized by rapid shifts in military procurement, fashion and consumer demand and competitive pressures, results in volatility in both price and demand. The demand for any particular product varies from time to time based largely upon changes in military specifications, consumer and industrial preferences, and general economic conditions affecting the textile and apparel industries, such as consumer expenditures for non-durable goods. The textile and apparel industries are also cyclical because the supply of particular products changes as competitors enter or leave the market. Brookwood sells primarily to domestic manufacturers, some of which operate offshore sewing operations. Some of Brookwood’s customers have moved their business offshore. Brookwood has responded by shipping fabric Asia to Asia and also by supplying finished products directly to manufacturers. Brookwood competes with numerous domestic and foreign fabric manufacturers, including companies larger in size and having greater financial resources than Brookwood. The principal competitive factors in the woven fabrics markets are price, service, delivery time, quality and flexibility, with the relative importance of each factor depending upon the needs of particular customers and the specific product offering. There are an increasing number of competitors entering the military market. These competitors vary and include converters from other market segments, as well as major mills, some of which are Brookwood suppliers, who are selectively targeting specific military specifications. As these companies enter the military market, the competitive pressures may result in further price and demand volatility, which could decrease Company revenues. Brookwood is subject to many environmental regulations that may result in significant costs or liabilities or cause interruptions in its operations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are subject to a broad range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the pollution and protection of the environment. Among the many environmental requirements applicable to Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are laws relating to air emissions, ozone 16 Table of Contents depletion, wastewater discharges and the handling, disposal and release of solid and hazardous substances and wastes. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are also subject to such laws as CERCLA, which may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at on-site or off-site locations. Actions by federal, state and local governments concerning environmental matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of producing the products manufactured by Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating or otherwise adversely affect demand for their products. Widespread adoption of any prohibitions or restrictions could adversely affect the ability to produce products and the cost of such products, and thus have a material adverse effect upon Kenyon, Brookwood Laminating, Brookwood, and the Company. Some risk of environmental liability is inherent in the nature of Brookwood’s business. There can be no assurance that material environmental liabilities will not arise. It is also possible that future developments in environmental regulation could lead to significant environmental compliance or cleanup costs. Brookwood’s business could lose a significant competitive advantage if it fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights. Brookwood considers its patents and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to its business and seeks to protect this proprietary know-how in part through U. S. patent and trademark registrations. No assurance can be given, however, that such protection will give Brookwood any material competitive advantage. In addition, Brookwood maintains certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, it has not sought patent or trademark protection. As a result, such trade secrets could be infringed upon and such infringement could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position. Changes in international trade regulations could adversely affect Brookwood’s competitive position and have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations or financial condition. Imports of foreign-made textile and apparel products are a significant source of competition for most sectors of the domestic textile industry. Changes in international trade regulation, including future trade agreements, could provide Brookwood’s competitors an advantage, increase Brookwood’s costs, limit the countries from which it can purchase raw materials and set quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Brookwood’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Brookwood’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. Brookwood is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Risks Related to the Merger The Merger is subject to various closing conditions described in Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K and other uncertainties, and there can be no assurances as to whether or when it may be completed. We cannot predict with certainty whether or when any of the required closing conditions will be satisfied or if other uncertainties may arise, as some of the conditions to close the Merger are outside of our control. In addition, third parties, such as regulators and lenders, could impose requirements or obligations as conditions for their approvals which could delay or increase the cost of the Merger and otherwise negatively impact our performance and financial condition. Despite our best efforts, we may not be able to satisfy or receive in a timely fashion the various closing conditions and obtain the necessary approvals, and such failure or delay in completing the Merger may cause uncertainty or other negative consequences that may materially and adversely affect our performance, financial condition, results of operations, and price per share of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Failure to complete the Merger could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, stock price, and cash flows. There is no assurance that the Merger will consummated at all, or that any event, change or other circumstances will not occur that could give rise to the termination of the Merger Agreement. If the Merger is not consummated for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including without limitation, (i) the price of our common stock may decline if the Merger does not occur; (ii) we will remain liable for significant transaction costs that would be payable even if the Merger is not consummated; and (iii) we will not have enough cash to meet the needs of the Company as a going concern. For these and other reasons, failure to consummate the Merger would adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, stock price, and cash flows. Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. For example, our shareholders should be aware that Mr. Gumbiner has interests in the Merger that are different to those of our stockholders. Further, certain executives may receive severance and other payments in the event of the Merger or if their employment is terminated following consummation of the Merger. The interests of our directors and executive officers in the proposed Merger will be described in more detail in the definitive proxy statement regarding the proposed Merger that we will file with the SEC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 