Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company Influence of Significant Stockholder. The Company’s chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Anthony J. Gumbiner, owns approximately 66.0% of the Company’s outstanding common stock (65.5% on a fully diluted basis) as of March 23, 2007. Accordingly, Mr. Gumbiner can exert substantial influence over the affairs of the Company. The Company is Dependent on its Key Personnel Whose Continued Service Is Not Guaranteed. The Company is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, loss of their services could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Risks Related to Our Textile Products Business The Company’s textile products business may be affected by the following risk factors, each of which could adversely affect the Company. Suppliers. Brookwood purchases a significant amount of the fabric and other materials it processes and sells from a small number of suppliers. Brookwood believes that the loss of any one of its suppliers would not have a long-term material adverse effect because other manufacturers with which Brookwood conducts business would be able to fulfill those requirements. However, the loss of certain of Brookwood’s suppliers could, in the short term, adversely affect Brookwood’s business until alternative supply arrangements were secured. In addition, there can be no assurance that any new supply arrangements would have terms as favorable as those contained in current supply arrangements. Brookwood has not experienced any significant disruptions in supply as a result of shortages in fabrics or other materials from its suppliers. Sales Concentration. Sales to one Brookwood customer, Tennier Industries, Inc. (“Tennier”), accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales in each of the three years ended December 31, 2006. Its relationship with Tennier is ongoing. Sales to Tennier, which are included in military sales, were $31,300,000, $56,883,000 and $53,149,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which represented 27.9%, 42.7% and 39.0% of Brookwood’s sales. Sales to another customer, ORC Industries, Inc. (“ORC”), have increased in 2006 and accounted for more than 10% of Brookwood’s sales. Its relationship with ORC is ongoing. Sales to ORC, which are also included in 6 Table of Contents military sales, were $12,609,000, $10,099,000 and $13,229,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which represented 11.2%, 7.6% and 9.7% of Brookwood’s sales. Through 2005, military sales, including the sales to Tennier and ORC, generally comprised an increased portion of Brookwood’s total sales and a greater share of gross profit. However, Brookwood experienced reduced military sales in 2006. Military sales were $53,885,000, $72,456,000 and $75,899,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which represented 48.0%, 54.4% and 55.7% of Brookwood’s sales. Brookwood’s sales to the customers from whom it derives its military business have been more volatile and difficult to predict, a trend the Company believes is likely to continue. In recent years, orders from the military for goods generally were significantly affected by the increased activity of the U.S. military. If this activity does not continue or declines, then orders from the military generally, including orders for Brookwood’s products, may be similarly affected. The military has recently limited orders for existing products and adopted revised specifications for new products to replace the products for which Brookwood’s customers have been suppliers. While any change in specifications or orders presents a potential opportunity for additional sales, it is a continuing challenge to adjust to changing specifications and production requirements. Brookwood is currently conducting research and development on various processes and products intended to comply with the revised specifications and participating in the bidding process for new military products. The U.S. government has recently released orders for goods that include Brookwood’s products. However, to the extent Brookwood’s products are not included in future purchases by the U.S. government for any reason, Brookwood’s sales could be adversely affected. In addition, the U.S. government is releasing contracts for shorter periods than in the past. Therefore, the Company is unable at this time to predict future sale trends. Concentration of Credit. The financial instruments that potentially subject Brookwood to concentration of credit risk consist principally of accounts receivable. Brookwood grants credit to customers based on an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition. Exposure to losses on receivables is principally dependent on each customer’s financial condition. Brookwood manages its exposure to credit risks through credit approvals, credit limits, monitoring procedures and the use of factors. The amount of receivables that Brookwood can factor is subject to certain limitations as specified in individual factoring agreements. The factoring agreements expose Brookwood to credit risk if any of the factors fail to meet their obligations. Brookwood seeks to manage this risk by conducting business with a number of reputable factors and monitoring the factors’ performance under their agreements. Loan Covenants. Brookwood’s revolving credit agreement requires compliance with various loan covenants and financial ratios, principally a total debt to tangible net worth ratio of 1.50 and a requirement that net income must exceed one dollar. Brookwood was in compliance with its loan covenants as of December 31, 2006 and for all interim periods during 2006. Environmental. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are subject to a broad range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the pollution and protection of the environment. Among the many environmental requirements applicable to Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are laws relating to air emissions, ozone depletion, wastewater discharges and the handling, disposal and release of solid and hazardous substances and wastes. Based on continuing internal review and advice from independent consultants, Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating believe that they are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are also subject to such laws as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), that may impose liability retroactively and without fault for releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at on-site or off-site locations. Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating are not aware of any releases for which they may be liable under CERCLA or any analogous provision. Actions by federal, state and local governments concerning environmental matters could result in laws or regulations that could increase the cost of producing the products manufactured by Kenyon and Brookwood Laminating or otherwise adversely affect demand for their products. Widespread adoption of any prohibitions or restrictions could adversely affect the cost and/or the ability to produce products and thereby have a material adverse effect upon Kenyon, Brookwood Laminating or Brookwood. 7 Table of Contents Brookwood does not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of its efforts to comply with environmental requirements. Some risk of environmental liability is inherent, however, in the nature of Brookwood’s business. There can be no assurance that material environmental liabilities will not arise. It is also possible that future developments in environmental regulation could lead to material environmental compliance or cleanup costs. Patent and Trademark. Brookwood considers its patents and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be important to its business and seeks to protect this proprietary know-how in part through U.S. patent and trademark registrations. No assurance can be given, however, that such protection will give Brookwood any material competitive advantage. In addition, Brookwood maintains certain trade secrets for which, in order to maintain the confidentiality of such trade secrets, it has not sought patent or trademark protection. As a result, such trade secrets could be infringed upon and such infringement could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position. Competition. The cyclical nature of the textile and apparel industries, characterized by rapid shifts in fashion, consumer demand and competitive pressures, results in both price and demand volatility. The demand for any particular product varies from time to time based largely upon changes in consumer, military or industrial preferences and general economic conditions affecting the textile and apparel industries, such as consumer expenditures for non-durable goods. The textile and apparel industries are also cyclical because the supply of particular products changes as competitors enter or leave the market. Brookwood sells primarily to domestic manufacturers, some of which operate offshore sewing operations. Some of Brookwood’s customers have moved their business offshore during the past few years. Brookwood has responded by shipping fabric Asia to Asia and also by supplying finished products and garments directly to manufacturers. Brookwood competes with numerous domestic and foreign fabric manufacturers, including companies larger in size and having greater financial resources than Brookwood. The principal competitive factors in the woven fabrics markets are price, service, delivery time, quality and flexibility, with the relative importance of each factor depending upon the needs of particular customers and the specific product offering. Brookwood’s management believes that Brookwood maintains its ability to compete effectively by providing its customers with a broad array of high-quality fabrics at competitive prices on a timely basis. Brookwood’s competitive position varies by product line. There are several major domestic competitors in the synthetic fabrics business, none of which dominates the market. Brookwood believes, however, that it has a strong competitive position. In addition, Brookwood believes it is one of a few finishers successful in printing camouflage on nylon for sale to apparel suppliers of the U.S. government. Additional competitive strengths of Brookwood include: knowledge of its customers’ business needs; its ability to produce special fabrics such as textured blends; waterproof breathable fabrics; state of the art fabric finishing equipment at its facilities; substantial vertical integration; and its ability to communicate electronically with its customers. Imports and Worldwide Trade Practices. Imports of foreign-made textile and apparel products are a significant source of competition for most sectors of the domestic textile industry. The U.S. government has attempted to regulate the growth of certain textile and apparel imports through tariffs and bilateral agreements, which establish quotas on imports from lesser-developed countries that historically account for significant shares of U.S. imports. Despite these efforts, imported apparel, which represents the area of heaviest import penetration, is estimated to represent in excess of 90% of the U.S. market. The U.S. textile industry has been and continues to be negatively impacted by existing worldwide trade practices, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”), anti-dumping and duty enforcement activities by the U.S. Government and by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies. The establishment of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) in 1995 has resulted in the phase out of quotas on textiles and apparel, effective January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding quota elimination, China’s accession agreement for membership in the WTO provides that WTO member countries (including the United States, Canada and European countries) may re-impose quotas on specific categories of products in the event it is determined that imports from China have surged and are threatening to create a market disruption for such categories of products. During 2005, the United States and China agreed to a new quota arrangement, which will impose quotas on certain textile products through the end of 2008. In addition, the European Union also agreed with China on a new textile 8 Table of Contents arrangement, which imposed quotas through the end of 2007. The United States may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries) in such increased quantities as to cause (or threaten) serious damage to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as “anti-dumping” actions). In addition, China has imposed an export tax on all textile products manufactured in China; we do not believe this tax will have a material impact on our business. In 2002, the U.S. government unveiled a proposal to eliminate worldwide tariffs for manufactured goods by 2015. The European Union has also proposed significant reductions in tariffs. These proposals have been discussed during the ongoing WTO Doha Round of multilateral negotiations, and could lead to further significant changes in worldwide tariffs beyond those already anticipated. Accordingly, Brookwood believes it must fully utilize other competitive strategies to replace sales lost to importers. One strategy is to identify new market niches. In addition to its existing products and proprietary technologies, Brookwood has been developing advanced breathable, waterproof laminate and other materials, which have been well received by its customers. Continued development of these fabrics for military, industrial and consumer application is a key element of Brookwood’s business plan. The ongoing enterprise value of Brookwood is contingent on its ability to maintain its level of military business and adapt to the global textile industry; however, there can be no assurance that the positive results of the past can be sustained or that competitors will not aggressively seek to replace products developed by Brookwood. The U.S. government engaged in discussions with a number of countries or trading blocs with the intent of further liberalizing trade. Authority to negotiate new “fast track” agreements has been granted by Congress, making new agreements in this field more likely. The U.S. government has also entered into a free trade agreement with Australia, Bahrain, Chile, Israel, Jordan, Morocco and Singapore. Labor Relations. Kenyon has entered into a three-year collective bargaining agreement with the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, at its Rhode Island facility, effective from March 1, 2007. Management believes that overall relations with employees are good. Brookwood is Dependent on its Key Personnel Whose Continued Service is Not Guaranteed. Brookwood is dependent upon its executive officers for strategic business direction and specialized industry experience. While the Company believes that it could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could adversely affect Brookwood’s operations. Risks Related to Our Energy Business The Company’s energy investment may be affected by the following risk factors, each of which could adversely affect the value of the investments. Volatility of Natural Gas Prices. A decline in natural gas prices could adversely affect financial results. Revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the value of the natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices received for natural gas sold. Historically, the markets for natural gas have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including: worldwide and domestic supplies of natural gas; weather conditions; the level of consumer demand; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the availability of pipeline capacity; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and the overall economic environment. Declines in natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of natural gas that can be produced economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and reserves for our Hallwood Energy affiliate. Drilling Activities. Hallwood Energy’s success is materially dependent upon the continued success of its drilling program. Future drilling activities may not be successful and, if drilling activities are unsuccessful, such failure will have an adverse effect on Hallwood Energy’s future results of operations and financial condition. Oil and gas drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered, even if the reserves targeted are classified as proved. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment 9 Table of Contents failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. Although numerous drilling prospects have been identified, there can be no assurance that such prospects will be drilled or that oil or natural gas will be produced from any such identified prospects or any other prospects. Regulations. The oil and gas industry is subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level, and some of the laws, rules and regulations carry substantial penalties for noncompliance. Such regulations include requirements for permits to drill and to conduct other operations and for provision of financial assurances covering drilling and well operations. Operations are also subject to various conservation regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units and the unitization or pooling of oil or natural gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production. Environmental regulations concerning the discharge of contaminants into the environment, the disposal of contaminants and the protection of public health, natural resources and wildlife affect exploration, development and production operations. Under state and federal laws, Hallwood Energy could be required to remove or remedy previously disposed wastes or suspend operations in contaminated areas or perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination. Competition. Hallwood Energy operates in a highly competitive area of acquisition, development and exploration of natural gas properties and production with competitors who have greater financial and other resources. Competitors from both major and independent oil and natural gas companies may be able to pay more for development prospects than the financial resources or human resources of Hallwood Energy permit. Hallwood Energy’s ability to develop and exploit natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on its ability to successfully conduct operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Quantity and Present Value of Reserves. Financial information for Hallwood Energy may contain or be based on estimates of proved reserves and the estimated future net revenues for the proved reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions relating to gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating natural gas reserves is complex and these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual results will most likely vary from these estimates. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of an estimate. Environmental. Natural gas operations are subject to many environmental hazards and risks, including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failures, fires, formations with abnormal pressure, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, brine or well fluids, and other hazards and risks. Drilling operations involve risks from high pressures and mechanical difficulties such as stock pipes, collapsed casings and separated cables. If any of these risks occur, substantial losses could result from injury or loss of life, severe damages to or destruction of property, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. Insurance is maintained against some of these risks, but may not adequately cover all of a catastrophic loss. Loan Covenants. In April 2007, Hallwood Energy entered into a $100,000,000 senior secured credit facility with an affiliate of one of the investors. The facility contains various financial covenants, including maximum general and administrative expenditures and current and proved collateral coverage ratios. The initial proved collateral coverage ratio test is performed June 30, 2008, and each quarter thereafter. Non-financial covenants restrict the ability of Hallwood Energy to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, prepay other indebtedness or amend certain debt instruments, pay dividends, create liens on assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, make investments, loans or advances, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations or engage in certain transactions with affiliates, and otherwise restrict certain activities by Hallwood Energy. The new lender may demand that Hallwood Energy prepay the outstanding loans in the event of a defined change of control, qualified sale or event of default, including a material adverse event. 10 Table of Contents The facility contains a make-whole provision whereby Hallwood Energy is required to pay the lender the amount by which the present value of interest and principal payable from the date of prepayment through January 31, 2009, exceeds the principal amount at the prepayment date. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 