Item 1A. Risk Factors Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, that are based on management’s belief, assumptions, current expectations, estimates and projections about the global automotive industry, the economy, the impact of stock option expense, the ability to control and leverage fixed manufacturing overhead costs, unit shipment and revenue growth rates, the ability to control E,R&D and S,G&A expenses, gross margins and the Company itself. Words like “anticipates,” “believes,” “confident,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecast,” “hopes”, “likely,” “plans,” “projects,” and “should,” and variations of such words and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements do not guarantee future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict with regard to timing, expense, likelihood and degree of occurrence. These risks include, without limitation, employment and general economic conditions, worldwide automotive production, the maintenance of the Company’s market share, the ability to achieve purchasing cost reductions, competitive pricing pressures, currency fluctuations, interest rates, equity prices, the financial strength/stability of the Company’s customers (including their Tier 1 suppliers), supply chain disruptions, potential sale of OEM business segments or suppliers, potential customer (including their Tier 1 suppliers) bankruptcies, the mix of products purchased by customers, the ability to continue to make product innovations, the success of certain newer products (e.g. SmartBeam® and Rear Camera Display Mirror), and other risks identified in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Therefore actual results and outcomes may materially differ from what is expressed or forecasted. Furthermore, the Company undertakes no obligation to update, amend, or clarify forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The following risk factors, together with all other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered. Automotive Industry. 96% of our net sales are to customers within the automotive industry. The current state of the automotive industry has been well publicized, including the federal government’s loans to certain OEM’s (which require certain conditions be met). While the auto industry has always been cyclical and highly impacted by levels of economic activity, the current environment (global recession, credit crisis, decline in consumer confidence) is unprecedented and is causing increased financial and production stresses evidenced by continuing pricing pressures, lower production levels, consumer preference shift to smaller vehicles due to fuel costs where we have a lower penetration rate and lower content per vehicle, overcapacity, customer and supplier bankruptcies, and commodity material cost increases. If our automotive customers (including their Tier 1 suppliers) experience bankruptcies, work stoppages, strikes, etc., it could disrupt our shipments to these customers, which could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. More than ever before, automakers have been experiencing increased volatility and uncertainty in executing planned new programs which have, in some cases, resulted in cancellation or delays of new vehicle platforms, package reconfigurations and inaccurate volume forecasts. This increased volatility and uncertainty has made it more difficult for us to forecast future sales, effectively manage costs and utilize capital, engineering, research and development, and human resource investments. - 13 - Key Customers. We have several large customers, including five customers which each account for 10% or more of our annual net sales (includes direct sales to OEM customers and sales through their Tier 1 suppliers): Daimler AG, General Motors Corporation, Toyota Motor Corporation, Volkswagen/Audi and BMW. The loss of all or a substantial portion of the sales to, or decreases in production by, any of these customers (or certain other significant customers) would have a material adverse effect on our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Effective October 1, 2003, General Motors Corporation began including a 30-day escape clause into its contracts in the event its suppliers are not competitive on pricing. Effective January 1, 2004, Ford Motor Company began imposing new contract terms, including the right to terminate a supplier contract for any or no reason. Pricing Pressures. In addition to price reductions over the life of our long-term agreements, we continue to experience significant pricing pressures from our automotive customers and competitors, which have affected, and which will continue to affect our margins to the extent that we are unable to offset the price reductions with productivity and manufacturing yield improvements, engineering and purchasing cost reductions, and increases in unit sales volume, all of which continue to be a challenge in the current automotive production environment. In addition, financial pressures at certain automakers are resulting in increased cost reduction efforts by them, including requests for additional price reductions, decontenting certain features from vehicles, customer market testing of future business, dual sourcing initiatives and warranty cost-sharing programs, any of which could adversely impact our sales growth, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Credit Risk. In light of the well publicized financial stresses within the worldwide automotive industry, certain automakers and tier one mirror customers are considering bankruptcy and/or the sale of business segments. Should one or more of our larger customers (including sales through their Tier 1 suppliers) sell their business or declare bankruptcy, it could adversely affect the collection of receivables, our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. The current uncertain economic environment continues to cause increased financial pressures and production stresses on our customers, which could impact timely customer payments and ultimately the collectibility of receivables. Supply Chain Disruptions. Due to the just-in-time supply chains within the automotive industry, a disruption in a supply chain caused by an unrelated supplier due to bankruptcy, work stoppages, strikes, etc. could disrupt our shipments to one or more automaker customers, which could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Competition. We recognize that Magna Mirrors, our main competitor and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Magna International, is considerably larger than our Company and may present a more formidable competitive threat in the future. Our future growth and success will depend on the ability to compete in our highly competitive markets. New Technology and Product Development. We continue to invest a significant portion of our annual sales in engineering, research and development projects as set forth in our Consolidated Statement of Income of our Consolidated Financial Statements filed with this report. Should these efforts ultimately prove unsuccessful, our sales, net income and, as a result, our share price will be adversely affected. Intellectual Property. We believe that our patents and trade secrets provide us with a significant competitive advantage in automotive rearview mirrors. The loss of any significant combination of patents and trade secrets could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, share price. Intellectual Property Litigation and Infringement Claims. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could affect our profitability and growth. If someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved in our business and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increases these risks. Any of these adverse consequences could potentially have an effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 14 - Business Disruptions. Manufacturing of our proprietary products employing electro-optic technology are performed at our five manufacturing facilities in Zeeland, Michigan. Should a catastrophic event occur, our ability to manufacture product, complete existing orders and provide other services would be severely impacted for an undetermined period of time. We have purchased business interruption insurance to address some of these potential costs. Our inability to conduct normal business operations for a period of time may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Other. Other issues and uncertainties which could adversely impact our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price include: • The Company has evaluated and is planning to implement a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System in 2009. While we believe that all necessary system development processes, testing procedures and user training that is planned will be adequate and completed prior to final implementation, there is no guarantee that all system components will function as intended at the date of implementation/conversion. Unanticipated failure(s) could cause delays in our ability to produce or ship its products, process transactions, or otherwise conduct business in its markets, resulting in material financial risk. • Economic conditions have deteriorated in many of the regions in which we do business. Continued adverse worldwide economic conditions, currency exchange rates, war or significant terrorist acts, could each affect worldwide automotive sales and production levels. • Changes in the commodity prices of the materials used in our products. We continue to experience some pressure for select raw material cost increases. • Manufacturing yield issues may negatively impact our margins and profitability. • Our ability to attract or retain key employees to operate our manufacturing facilities and to staff our corporate office. We are dependent on the services of our management team. Losing key members of our management team could adversely affect our operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our officers or directors. • Uncertain equity markets could negatively impact our financial performance due to an increase in realized losses on the sale of equity investments and/or recognized losses due to an other-than–temporary impairment adjustment on available-for-sale securities (mark to market adjustment). • Our ability to successfully design and execute strategic and operating plans, including continuing to obtain new business. Antitakeover Provisions. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, the laws of Michigan, and our Shareholder Protection Rights Plan include provisions which are designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our best interest and the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. All of these provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control at the company level without action by our shareholders, and therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Fluctuations in Market Price. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging between $19.47 and $6.50 during 2008. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. There may be a significant impact on the market price for our common stock due to, among other things: • variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors; • changes in investors’ or analysts’ perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business and in particular our primary industry; • the size of the public float of our common stock; • market conditions, including the industry in which we operate, and • general economic conditions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. - 15 - 