ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, that are based on management's belief, assumptions, current expectations, estimates and projections about the global automotive industry, the economy and the Company itself. Words like "anticipates," "believes," "confident," "estimates," "expects," "forecast," "likely," "plans," "projects," and "should," and variations of such words and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements (e.g. unit shipment growth estimates and maintenance of the Company's market share). These statements do not guarantee future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict with regard to timing, expense, likelihood and degree of occurrence. These risks include, without limitation, employment and general economic conditions, the pace of economic recovery in the U.S. and in international markets, the pace of automotive production worldwide, the types of products purchased by customers, competitive pricing pressures, currency fluctuations, the financial strength of the Company's customers, the mix of products purchased by customers, the ability to continue to make product innovations, the success of certain products, and other risks and uncertainties described herein. Therefore actual results and outcomes may materially differ from what is expressed or forecasted. Furthermore, the Company undertakes no obligation to update, amend, or clarify forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. -10- The following risk factors, together with all other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered. Automotive Industry. 96% of our net sales are to customers within the automotive industry. Supplying products to the automotive industry involves increasing financial and production stresses due to continuing pricing pressures, lower domestic production levels, overcapacity, supplier bankruptcies, and commodity material cost increases. Automakers are experiencing increased volatility and uncertainty in executing planned new programs which have, in some cases, resulted in cancellation or delays of new vehicle platforms, package reconfigurations and inaccurate volume forecasts. This increased volatility and uncertainty has made it more difficult for us to forecast future sales and effectively utilize capital, engineering, research and development, and human resource investments. Key Customers. We have a few large customers, including four customers which each account for 10% or more of our annual net sales - General Motors Corporation, Toyota Motor Corporation, DaimlerChrysler AG and BMW. The loss of all or a substantial portion of the sales to any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Effective October 1, 2003, General Motors Corporation, our largest customer, began including a 30-day escape clause into its contracts in the event its suppliers are not competitive on pricing. Effective January 1, 2004, Ford Motor Company began imposing new contract terms, including the right to terminate a supplier contract for any or no reason, etc. Pricing Pressures. In addition to price reductions over the life of its long-term agreements, we continue to experience pricing pressures from our automotive customers and competitors, which have affected, and which will continue to affect our margins to the extent that we are unable to offset the price reductions with productivity and manufacturing yield improvements, engineering and purchasing cost reductions, and increases in sales volume. In addition, profit pressures at certain automakers are resulting in increased cost reduction efforts by them, including requests for additional price reductions, decontenting certain features from vehicles, and warranty cost-sharing programs, any of which could adversely impact our sales growth, margins, profitability and , as a result, our share price. Credit Risk. In light of the financial stresses within the worldwide automotive industry, certain automakers and tier one mirror customers have already declared bankruptcy or may be considering bankruptcy. Should one or more of our larger customers declare bankruptcy, it could adversely impact the collectibility of our accounts receivable, bad debt expense and net income. Supply Chain Disruptions. Due to the just-in-time supply chains within the automotive industry, a disruption in a supply chain caused by an unrelated supplier due to bankruptcy, work stoppages, strikes, etc. could disrupt our shipments to one or more automaker customers, which could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Competition. We recognize that Magna Donnelly, our main competitor and wholly-owned subsidiary of Magna International, is considerably larger than the Company and may present a more formidable competitive threat in the future. Our future growth and success will depend on the ability to compete in our highly competitive markets. New Technology and Product Development. We continue to invest a significant portion of our annual sales in engineering, research and development projects. Should these efforts ultimately prove unsuccessful, our sales, net income and, as a result, our share price will be adversely affected. Intellectual Property. We believe that our patents and trade secrets provide us with a significant competitive advantage in automotive rearview mirrors. The loss of any significant combination of patents and trade secrets could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, share price. Other. Other issues and uncertainties which could adversely impact our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price include: - Changes in worldwide economic conditions, currency exchange rates, war or significant terrorist acts, which could affect worldwide automotive sales and production levels. - Changes in the commodity prices of the materials used in our products. We continue to experience some pressure for select raw material cost increases. -11- - Our ability to attract or retain key employees to operate our manufacturing facilities and corporate office. We are dependent on the services of our management team. Losing one or more key members of our management team could adversely affect our operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our officers or directors. - Success of the Company's strategic and operating plans to properly direct the Company, including continuing to obtain new business. Antitakeover Provisions. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, the laws of Michigan, and our Shareholder Protection Rights Plan include provisions which are designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our best interest and the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. All of these provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control at the company level without action by our shareholders, and therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Fluctuations in Market Price. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging between $15.38 and $20.32 for 2005. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. There may be a significant impact on the market price for our common stock due to, among other things: - variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors; - changes in investors' or analysts' perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business; - the size of the public float of our common stock; - market conditions, and - general economic conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 