Item 1A. Risk Factors. Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, that are based on management’s belief, assumptions, current expectations, estimates and projections about the global automotive industry, the economy, the ability to control and leverage fixed manufacturing overhead costs, unit shipment and revenue growth rates, the ability to control E,R&D and S,G&A expenses, gross margins and the Company itself. Words like “anticipates,” “believes,” “confident,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecast,” “hopes,” “likely,” “plans,” “projects,” “optimistic” and “should,” and variations of such words and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements do not guarantee future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict with regard to timing, expense, likelihood and degree of occurrence. These risks include, without limitation, employment and general economic conditions, worldwide automotive production, the maintenance of the Company’s market share, the ability to achieve purchasing cost reductions, competitive pricing pressures, currency fluctuations, interest rates, equity prices, the financial strength/stability of the Company’s customers (including their Tier 1 suppliers), supply chain disruptions, potential sale of OEM business segments or suppliers, potential additional customer (including their Tier 1 suppliers) bankruptcies, the mix of products purchased by customers, the ability to continue to make product innovations, the success of certain products (e.g. SmartBeam® and Rear Camera Display Mirror), and other risks identified in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Therefore, actual results and outcomes may materially differ from what is expressed or forecasted. Furthermore, the Company undertakes no obligation to update, amend, or clarify forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The following risk factors, together with all other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered. Automotive Industry. 97% of our net sales are to customers within the automotive industry. The current state of the automotive industry has been well publicized and the auto industry has always been cyclical and highly impacted by levels of economic activity. The current environment (global recession, credit crisis, decline in consumer confidence, government loans to certain OEM’s that require certain conditions to be met) continues to be uncertain and continues to cause increased financial and production stresses evidenced by volatile production levels, supplier part shortages, customer and supplier bankruptcies, automotive plant shutdowns, commodity material cost increases, consumer preference shift to smaller vehicles due to fuel costs and environmental concerns where we have a lower penetration rate and lower content per vehicle. If additional automotive customers (including their Tier 1 suppliers) experience bankruptcies, work stoppages, strikes, part shortages, etc., it could disrupt our shipments to these customers, which could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Automakers continue to experience increased volatility and uncertainty in executing planned new programs which have, in some cases, resulted in cancellation or delays of new vehicle platforms, package reconfigurations and inaccurate volume forecasts. This volatility and uncertainty has made it more difficult for us to forecast future sales, effectively manage costs and utilize capital, engineering, research and development, and human resource investments. The global governmental vehicle stimulus programs, such as the “Cash for Clunkers” program in the United Stated, did not have a significant direct effect on our production levels in 2009, since the smaller vehicles that people were mostly purchasing were those that typically did not contain significant Gentex content. However, there may have been some indirect effect due to the increased showroom traffic that those programs created. While the governmental stimulus programs were in effect, automotive vehicle sales were temporarily higher than automotive production levels. Now that sales levels have decreased and the scenario has reversed, automakers, at some point, we believe, will need to adjust their production plans for the lower sales levels. - 11 - Table of Contents Key Customers. We have a number of large customers, including six automotive customers which each account for 10% or more of our annual net sales (includes direct sales to OEM customers and sales through their Tier 1 suppliers): Toyota Motor Corporation, Volkswagen/Audi, General Motors Corporation, Daimler AG, Ford and BMW. The loss of all or a substantial portion of the sales to, or decreases in production by, any of these customers (or certain other significant customers) would have a material adverse effect on our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Toyota Motor Corporation recently announced a number of vehicle recalls that will impact their production in the near term. The impact to Gentex will depend upon the length and depth of their production cuts resulting from the announced vehicle recalls. To date, the impact is not material. Effective October 1, 2003, General Motors Corporation began including a 30-day escape clause into its contracts in the event its suppliers are not competitive on pricing. Effective January 1, 2004, Ford Motor Company began imposing new contract terms, including the right to terminate a supplier contract for any or no reason. Credit Risk. In light of the continuing well publicized financial stresses within the worldwide automotive industry, certain automakers have filed for bankruptcy and other automakers and Tier 1 mirror customers are considering bankruptcy and/or the sale of certain business segments. Should one or more of our larger customers (including sales through their Tier 1 suppliers) declare bankruptcy or sell their business, it could adversely affect the collection of receivables, our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. The on-going uncertain economic environment continues to cause increased financial pressures and production stresses on our customers, which could impact timely customer payments and ultimately the collectability of receivables. We have been paid for all pre-petition bankruptcy receivables relating to Chrysler who filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code on April 30, 2009. We have also received payment for all pre-petition bankruptcy receivables relating to General Motors who filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code on June 1, 2009. Our increased allowance for doubtful accounts in 2008 related to financially distressed Tier 1 mirror customers. While we have made progress in collecting a portion of the significantly past due account balances from certain Tier 1 mirror customers, we did incur a bad debt write off of approximately $1.1 million in 2009, which was part of the 2008 increase in allowance for doubtful accounts. The remaining overall allowance for doubtful accounts related to all financially distressed Tier 1 mirror customers remains unchanged. We continue to work with certain financially distressed Tier 1 mirror customers in collecting past due balances. Refer to Footnote 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding our allowance for doubtful accounts. Supply Chain Disruptions. Due to the just-in-time supply chains within the automotive industry, a disruption in a supply chain caused by an unrelated supplier due to bankruptcy, work stoppages, strikes, part shortages, etc. could disrupt our shipments to one or more automaker customers, which could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Pricing Pressures. In addition to price reductions over the life of our long-term agreements, we continue to experience significant pricing pressures from our automotive customers and competitors, which have affected, and which will continue to affect our margins to the extent that we are unable to offset the price reductions with productivity and manufacturing yield improvements, engineering and purchasing cost reductions, and increases in unit sales volume, all of which pose increasing challenges in the current automotive production environment. In addition, financial pressures at certain automakers are resulting in increased cost reduction efforts by them, including requests for additional price reductions, decontenting certain features from vehicles, customer market testing of future business, dual sourcing initiatives and warranty cost-sharing programs, which could adversely impact our sales growth, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Competition. We recognize that Magna Mirrors, our main competitor and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Magna International, is considerably larger than we are and may present a more formidable competitive threat in the future. Our future growth and success will depend on the ability to compete in our highly competitive markets. Our RCD Mirror feature competes in the market place with backup sensors and rear backup cameras (which could be in the mirror, navigation system or other LCD displays). We believe that our RCD Mirror is an optimum, ergonomic, easily adaptable method to display the output of a rear camera for increased safety. Ultrasonic sensors cost less but may be less effective. Any color display in a vehicle is relatively costly. When a color display is required for other features such as navigation, radio or other vehicle functions, then it may be less costly on a per-feature basis to display the output of the backup camera in that in-dash display, offering significant competition to the RCD Mirror. The long-term success of our RCD Mirror may depend on automakers willingness and desire to display other information in the RCD Mirror, driving down the per-feature cost. - 12 - Table of Contents Our SmartBeam® product is a single function feature that competes with large electronic automotive suppliers who are marketing multi-function vision systems. Our single function SmartBeam® feature is a cost competitive product when compared to other high-beam assist features. While we expect RCD Mirrors and SmartBeam® to drive growth over the next several years, competition could impact our expectations. New Technology and Product Development. We continue to invest a significant portion of our annual sales in engineering, research and development projects as set forth in our Consolidated Statement of Income of our Consolidated Financial Statements filed with this report. Should these efforts ultimately prove unsuccessful, our sales, net income and, as a result, our share price will be adversely affected. Intellectual Property. We believe that our patents and trade secrets provide us with a significant competitive advantage in automotive rearview mirrors (but none of our patents individually is required for the success of our products). The loss of any significant combination of patents and trade secrets regarding our products could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, share price. Intellectual Property Litigation and Infringement Claims. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could affect our profitability and future growth. If someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved in our business and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation significantly increases these risks. Any of these adverse consequences could potentially have an effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Business Disruptions. Manufacturing of our proprietary products employing electro-optic technology is performed at our five manufacturing facilities in Zeeland, Michigan. Should a catastrophic event occur, our ability to manufacture product, complete existing orders and provide other services would be severely impacted for an undetermined period of time. We have purchased business interruption insurance to address some of these potential costs. Our inability to conduct normal business operations for a period of time may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Other. Other issues and uncertainties which could adversely impact our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price include: • We have implemented the first phase of a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System effective July 1, 2009, which covered key core business areas at our Zeeland, Michigan locations. To date, we have not experienced any significant issues during the implementation process. However, there is no guarantee that all system components will function as intended in the future. In addition, we have implemented our new ERP system for one of its overseas offices effective December 1, 2009. To date, we have not experienced any significant issues during the overseas office implementation process. The implementation of additional lean manufacturing production line scheduling and business reporting capabilities are still in process as of December 31, 2009. While we believe that all necessary system development processes, testing procedures and user training that is planned will be adequate and completed prior to final implementation, there is no guarantee that all system components will function as intended at the time of implementation. Unanticipated failure(s) could cause delays in our ability to produce or ship our products, process transactions, or otherwise conduct business in our markets, resulting in material financial risk. • General economic conditions continue to be of concern in many of the regions in which we do business. Continued adverse worldwide economic conditions, currency exchange rates, war or significant terrorist acts, could each affect worldwide automotive sales and production levels. • Changes in the commodity prices of the materials used in our products. We continue to experience pressure for select raw material cost increases. • Manufacturing yield issues may negatively impact our margins and profitability. • Our ability to attract or retain key employees to operate our manufacturing facilities and to staff our corporate office. We are dependent on the services of our management team. Losing key members of our management team could adversely affect our operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our officers or directors. • Uncertain equity markets could negatively impact our financial performance due to an increase in realized losses on the sale of equity investments and/or recognized losses due to an other-than-temporary impairment adjustment on available-for-sale securities (mark to market adjustment). • Our ability to successfully design and execute strategic and operating plans, including continuing to obtain new business. - 13 - Table of Contents Antitakeover Provisions. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, the laws of Michigan, and our Shareholder Protection Rights Plan include provisions which are designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our best interest and the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, such provisions could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. All of these provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control at the company level without action by our shareholders, and therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Fluctuations in Market Price. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging between $18.36 and $7.01 during 2009. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. There may be a significant impact on the market price for our common stock due to, among other things: • variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors; • changes in investors’ or analysts’ perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business and in particular our primary industry; • the size of the public float of our common stock; • market conditions, including the industry in which we operate, and • general economic conditions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 