ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, that are based on management's belief, assumptions, current expectations, estimates and projections about the global automotive industry, the economy, the impact of stock option expense, the ability to leverage fixed manufacturing overhead costs, unit shipment and revenue growth rates, gross margins and the Company itself. Words like "anticipates," "believes," "confident," "estimates," "expects," "forecast," "likely," "plans," "projects," and "should," and variations of such words and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. These statements do not guarantee future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict with regard to timing, expense, likelihood and degree of occurrence. These risks include, without limitation, employment and general economic conditions, the pace of automotive production worldwide, the maintenance of the Company's market share, competitive pricing pressures, currency fluctuations, the financial strength of the Company's customers, supply chain disruptions, potential sale of OEM business segments or suppliers, the mix of products purchased by customers, the ability to continue to make product innovations, the success of certain newer products (e.g. SmartBeam(R), Z-NAV(R) and Rear Camera Display Mirror), and other risks identified in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Therefore actual results and outcomes may materially differ from what is expressed or forecasted. Furthermore, the Company undertakes no obligation to update, amend, or clarify forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The following risk factors, together with all other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered. Automotive Industry. 96% of our net sales are to customers within the automotive industry. Supplying products to the automotive industry involves increasing financial and production stresses due to continuing pricing pressures, lower domestic production levels, overcapacity, customer and supplier bankruptcies, and commodity material cost increases. If the Company's automotive customers (including their Tier 1 suppliers) experience work stoppages, strikes, etc., it could disrupt our shipments to these customers, which could adversely affect the Company's sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, its share price. Automakers have been experiencing increased volatility and uncertainty in executing planned new programs which have, in some cases, resulted in cancellation or delays of new vehicle platforms, package reconfigurations and inaccurate volume forecasts. This increased volatility and uncertainty has made it more difficult for us to forecast future sales and effectively utilize capital, engineering, research and development, and human resource investments. Key Customers. We have a few large customers, including four customers which each account for 10% or more of our annual net sales (including sales to their Tier 1 suppliers): General Motors Corporation, Daimler AG, Toyota Motor Corporation and BMW. The loss of all or a substantial portion of the sales to any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Effective October 1, 2003, General Motors Corporation, our largest customer, began including a 30-day escape clause into its contracts in the event its suppliers are not competitive on pricing. Effective January 1, 2004, Ford Motor Company began imposing new contract terms, including the right to terminate a supplier contract for any or no reason, etc. Pricing Pressures. In addition to price reductions over the life of our long-term agreements, we continue to experience pricing pressures from our automotive customers and competitors, which have affected, and which will continue to affect our margins to the extent that we are unable to offset the price reductions with productivity and manufacturing yield improvements, engineering and purchasing cost reductions, and increases in unit sales volume, which has been a challenge. In addition, profit pressures at certain automakers are resulting in increased cost reduction efforts by them, including requests for additional price reductions, decontenting certain features from vehicles, and warranty cost-sharing programs, any of which could adversely impact our sales growth, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Credit Risk. In light of the financial stresses within the worldwide automotive industry, certain automakers and tier one mirror customers are considering the sale of business segments or may be considering bankruptcy. Should one or more of our larger -13- customers (including their Tier 1 suppliers) sell their business or declare bankruptcy, it could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, the Company's share price. Supply Chain Disruptions. Due to the just-in-time supply chains within the automotive industry, a disruption in a supply chain caused by an unrelated supplier due to bankruptcy, work stoppages, strikes, etc. could disrupt our shipments to one or more automaker customers, which could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price. Competition. We recognize that Magna Donnelly, our main competitor and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Magna International, is considerably larger than our Company and may present a more formidable competitive threat in the future. Our future growth and success will depend on the ability to compete in our highly competitive markets. New Technology and Product Development. We continue to invest a significant portion of our annual sales in engineering, research and development projects as set forth in our Consolidated Statement of Income of our Consolidated Financial Statements filed with this report. Should these efforts ultimately prove unsuccessful, our sales, net income and, as a result, our share price will be adversely affected. Intellectual Property. We believe that our patents and trade secrets provide us with a significant competitive advantage in automotive rearview mirrors. The loss of any significant combination of patents and trade secrets could adversely affect our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, share price. Intellectual Property Litigation and Infringement Claims. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could affect our profitability and growth. If someone claims that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved in our business and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increases these risks. Any of these adverse consequences could potentially have an effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Business Disruptions. Manufacturing of our proprietary products employing electro-optic technology are performed at our five manufacturing facilities in Zeeland, Michigan. Should a catastrophic event occur, our ability to manufacture product, complete existing orders and provide other services would be severely impacted for an undetermined period of time. We have purchased business interruption insurance to address some of these potential costs. Our inability to conduct normal business operations for a period of time may have an adverse impact on long-term operating results. Other. Other issues and uncertainties which could adversely impact our sales, margins, profitability and, as a result, our share price include: - Changes in worldwide economic conditions, currency exchange rates, war or significant terrorist acts, which could affect worldwide automotive sales and production levels. - Changes in the commodity prices of the materials used in our products. We continue to experience some pressure for select raw material cost increases. - Manufacturing yield issues may negatively impact our margins and profitability. - Our ability to attract or retain key employees to operate our manufacturing facilities and to staff our corporate office. We are dependent on the services of our management team. Losing key members of our management team could adversely affect our operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our officers or directors. - Our ability to successfully design and execute strategic and operating plans, including continuing to obtain new business. Antitakeover Provisions. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, the laws of Michigan, and our Shareholder Protection Rights Plan include provisions which are designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our best interest and the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions, however, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current price for our common -14- stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. All of these provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control at the company level without action by our shareholders, and therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Fluctuations in Market Price. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging between $22.60 and $14.86 for 2007. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate. There may be a significant impact on the market price for our common stock due to, among other things: - variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors; - changes in investors' or analysts' perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business; - the size of the public float of our common stock; - market conditions, including the industry in which we operate, and - general economic conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 