ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks are not the only risks facing United; the Company’s business operations could also be materially adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to United or that United currently deems immaterial. United’s operating results depend on employment rates and the strength of the general economy. The customers that United serves are affected by changes in economic conditions outside the Company’s control, including national, regional and local slowdowns in general economic activity and job markets. Demand for the products and services the Company offers, particularly in the office product, technology and furniture categories, is affected by the number of white collar and other workers employed by the businesses United’s customers serve. The persistent high unemployment rates in recent years have adversely affected United’s results of operations. If employment continues to grow at a slow rate, demand for the products the Company sells will be adversely affected. United may not achieve its growth, cost-reduction and margin enhancement goals. United has set goals to improve its profitability over time by reducing expenses, growing sales to existing and new customers, and increasing sales of higher margin products as a percentage of total sales. There can be no assurance that United will achieve its enhanced profitability goals. Factors that could have a significant effect on the Company’s efforts to achieve these goals include the following: • Failure to achieve the Company’s revenue and margin growth objectives in its sales channels and product categories; • Impact on gross margin from competitive pricing pressures; • Failure to maintain or improve the Company’s sales mix between lower margin and higher margin products; • Inability to pass along cost increases from United’s suppliers to its customers; • Failure to increase sales of United’s private brand products; and • Failure of customers to adopt the Company’s product pricing and marketing programs. The loss of one or more significant customers could significantly reduce United’s revenues and profitability. In 2012 United’s largest customer accounted for 11.6% of net sales and United’s top five customers accounted for approximately 26% of net sales. Increasing direct purchases by major customers from manufacturers, as well as the loss of one or more key customers, changes in the sales mix or sales volume to key customers, or a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of any of them could significantly reduce United’s sales and profitability. United’s reliance on supplier allowances and promotional incentives could impact profitability. Supplier allowances and promotional incentives that are often based on volume contribute significantly to United’s profitability. If United does not comply with suppliers’ terms and conditions, or does not make requisite purchases to achieve certain volume hurdles, United may not earn certain allowances and promotional incentives. Additionally, suppliers may reduce the allowances they pay United if they conclude that the value United creates does not justify the allowances. If United’s suppliers reduce or otherwise alter their allowances or promotional incentives, United’s profit margin for the sale of the products it purchases from those suppliers may decline. The loss or diminution of supplier allowances and promotional support could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operation. United relies on independent resellers for a significant percentage of its net sales. Sales to independent resellers account for a significant portion of United’s net sales. Independent resellers compete with national distributors and retailers that have substantially greater financial resources and technical and marketing capabilities. Over the years, several of the Company’s independent reseller customers have been acquired by competitors or have ceased operation. If United’s customer base of independent resellers declines, the Company’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected. United operates in a competitive environment. The Company operates in a competitive environment. Competition is based largely upon service capabilities and price, as the Company’s competitors include wholesalers that offer products that are the same as or similar to the products the Company offers to the same customers or potential customers. United also faces competition from 5 Table of Contents some of its own suppliers, which sell their products directly to United’s customers. These competitive pressures are exacerbated by the ongoing decline in the overall demand for office products, driven in part by changes in technology that alter the types of office products consumers’ use. The competitive arena is also increasingly shifting online. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations depend on its ability to compete effectively on price, product selection and availability, marketing support, logistics and other ancillary services; diversify its product offering; and provide services and capabilities that enable its customers to succeed online. The loss of key suppliers or supply chain disruptions could decrease United’s revenues and profitability. United believes its ability to offer a combination of well-known brand name products, competitively priced private brand products, and support services is an important factor in attracting and retaining customers. The Company’s ability to offer a wide range of products and services is dependent on obtaining adequate product supply and services from manufacturers or other suppliers. United’s agreements with its suppliers are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or services from key suppliers at competitive prices could cause the Company’s revenues and profitability to decrease. In addition, supply interruptions could arise due to transportation disruptions, labor disputes or other factors beyond United’s control. Disruptions in United’s supply chain could result in a decrease in revenues and profitability. Many of the Company’s independent resellers use third party technology vendors (“3PVs”) to automate their business operations. The 3PVs play an important role in the independent dealer channel, as most purchase orders, order confirmations, stock availability checks, invoices and advanced ship notices are exchanged between United and its independent resellers over 3PV networks. The 3PVs also provide e-commerce portals that United’s customers use to transact online business with their customers. If United is unable to obtain services from one or more 3PVs on terms that are acceptable to United, or if a 3PV fails to provide quality services to United’s customers, United’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A significant disruption or failure of the Company’s information technology systems or in its design, implementation or support of the information technology systems and e-commerce services it provides to customers could disrupt United’s business, result in increased costs and decreased revenues, harm the Company’s reputation and expose the Company to liability. The Company relies on information technology in all aspects of its business, including managing and replenishing inventory, filling and shipping customer orders, and coordinating sales and marketing activities. Several of the Company’s software applications are legacy systems which the Company must periodically update, enhance and replace. A significant disruption or failure of the Company’s existing information technology systems or in the Company’s development and implementation of new systems could put it at a competitive disadvantage and could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company also develops, licenses and implements business management software and e-commerce services for customers. Defects or errors in the software or e-commerce services the Company provides to customers or failure to adequately protect customer information could result in increased costs, litigation, customer attrition, reduced market acceptance of the Company’s goods and services and damage to the Company’s reputation. United is exposed to the credit risk of its customers. United extends credit to its customers. The failure of a significant customer or a significant group of customers to timely pay all amounts due United could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s trade receivables are generally unsecured or subordinated to other lenders, and many of the Company’s customers are thinly capitalized. The extension of credit involves considerable judgment and is based on management’s evaluation of a variety of factors, including customers’ financial condition and payment history and the availability of collateral to secure customers’ receivables. There can be no assurance that United has assessed and will continue to assess the creditworthiness of its existing or future customers accurately. United must manage inventory effectively in order to maximize supplier allowances while minimizing excess and obsolete inventory. To maximize supplier allowances and minimize excess and obsolete inventory, United must project end-consumer demand for over 130,000 items in stock. If United underestimates demand for a particular manufacturer’s products, the Company will lose sales, reduce customer satisfaction, and earn a lower level of allowances from that manufacturer. If United overestimates demand, it may have to liquidate excess or obsolete inventory at a loss. 6 Table of Contents United is focusing on increasing its sales of private brand products. These products can present unique inventory challenges. United sources some of its private brand products overseas, resulting in longer order-lead times than for comparable products sourced domestically. These longer lead-times make it more difficult to forecast demand accurately and require larger inventory investments to support high service levels. United may not be successful in identifying, consummating and integrating future acquisitions. Historically, part of United’s growth and expansion into new product categories or markets has come from targeted acquisitions. Going forward, United may not be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete the acquisition of any identified candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms. Furthermore, competition for attractive acquisition candidates may limit the number of acquisition candidates or increase the overall costs of making acquisitions. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired business systems and personnel with United’s business; the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers; the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; the difficulties in achieving target synergies; and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. Difficulties in identifying, completing or integrating acquisitions could impede United’s revenues, profitability and net worth. In addition, some of the Company’s acquisitions have included foreign operations, and future acquisitions may increase United’s international presence. International operations present a variety of unique risks, including the costs and difficulties of managing foreign enterprises, limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds, currency fluctuations, cultural differences that affect customer preferences and business practices, and unstable political or economic conditions. There can be no assurance that United will manage these risks effectively. The security of private information United’s customers provide to the Company could be compromised. Through United’s sales, marketing and e-commerce activities, the Company collects and stores personally identifiable information and credit card data that customers provide when they buy products or services, enroll in promotional programs, or otherwise communicate with United. United also gathers and retains information about its employees in the normal course of business. United uses vendors to assist with certain aspects of United’s business and, to enable the vendors to perform services for United, the Company shares some of the information provided by customers and employees. Similarly, to enable United to provide goods and services to its customers, United’s customers share with United information their customers provide to them. Loss or disclosure of customer or business information by United or its vendors could disrupt the Company’s operations and expose United to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with more stringent privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. The Company is subject to costs and risks associated with laws, regulations, and industry standards affecting United’s business. United is subject to a wide range of state, federal and foreign laws and industry standards, including laws and standards regarding labor and employment, government contracting, product liability, the storage and transportation of hazardous materials, privacy and data security, imports and exports, and intellectual property, as well as laws relating to the Company’s international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and foreign tax laws. These laws, regulations and standards may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political or economic events. The complex legal and regulatory environment exposes United to compliance and litigation costs and risks that could materially affect United’s operations and financial results. United’s financial condition and results of operation depend on the availability of financing sources to meet its business needs. The Company depends on various external financing sources to fund its operating, investing, and financing activities. The Company’s financing agreements include covenants by the Company to maintain certain financial ratios and comply with other obligations. If the Company violates a covenant or otherwise defaults on its obligations under a financing agreement, the Company’s lenders may refuse to extend additional credit, demand repayment of outstanding indebtedness and terminate the financing agreements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” included below under Item 7. The Company’s primary external financing sources terminate or mature in one to three years. If the Company defaults on its obligations under a financing agreement or is unable to obtain or renew financing sources on commercially reasonable terms, its business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents The Company relies heavily on the ability to recruit, retain and develop high-performing managers and the lack of execution in these areas could harm the Company’s ability to carry out its business strategy. United’s ability to implement its business strategy depends largely on the efforts, skills, abilities and judgment of the Company’s executive management team. United’s success also depends to a significant degree on its ability to recruit and retain sales and marketing, operations and other senior managers. The Company may not be successful in attracting and retaining these employees, which may in turn have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Unexpected events could disrupt normal business operations, which might result in increased costs and decreased revenues. Unexpected events, such as hurricanes, fire, war, terrorism, and other natural or man-made disruptions, may increase the cost of doing business or otherwise impact United’s financial performance. In addition, damage to or loss of use of significant aspects of the Company’s infrastructure due to such events could have an adverse affect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED COMMENT LETTERS. None. 