ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks are not the only risks facing United; the Company's business operations could also be materially adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to United or that United currently deems immaterial. United's operating results depend on the strength of the general economy. The customers that United serves are affected by changes in economic conditions outside the Company's control, including national, regional and local slowdowns in general economic activity and job markets. Demand for the products and services the Company offers, particularly in office products, is affected by the number of white collar and other workers employed by the businesses United's customers serve. An interruption of growth in these markets or a general economic downturn, together with the negative effect this has on the number of workers employed, may adversely affect United's business, financial condition and results of operations. United may not achieve its cost-reduction and margin enhancement goals. United has set goals to improve its profitability over time by reducing expenses and growing sales to existing and new customers. There can be no assurance that United will achieve its enhanced profitability goals. Factors that could have a significant effect on the Company's efforts to achieve these goals include the following: •Inability to achieve the Company's annual "War on Waste" (WOW2) initiatives to reduce expenses and improve productivity and quality; •Impact on gross margin from competitive pricing pressures; •Failure to maintain or improve the Company's sales mix between lower margin and higher margin products; •Inability to pass along cost increases from United's suppliers to its customers; •Failure to increase sales of United's private brand products; and •Failure of customers to adopt the Company's product pricing and marketing programs. The loss of a significant customer could significantly reduce United's revenues and profitability. United's top five customers accounted for approximately 23% of the Company's 2008 net sales. The loss of one or more key customers, changes in the sales mix or sales volume to key customers, a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of any of them or the failure of any of them to timely pay all amounts due United could significantly reduce United's sales and profitability. United's financial condition and results of operation depend on the availability of financing sources to meet its business needs. The Company depends on various external financing sources to fund its operating, investing, and financing activities. The Company's financing agreements include covenants of the Company to maintain certain financial ratios and comply with other obligations. If the Company violates a covenant or otherwise defaults on its obligations under a financing agreement, the Company's lenders may refuse to extend additional credit, demand repayment of outstanding indebtedness and terminate the financing agreements. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—General" included below under Item 7. 6 One of the Company's external financing sources is a receivables securitization program that is dependent on back-up liquidity facilities that must be renewed annually. The Company's other primary external financing sources terminate or mature in three to five years. If the Company defaults on its obligations under a financing agreement or is unable to obtain or renew financing sources on commercially reasonable terms, its business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. United's reliance on supplier allowances and promotional incentives could impact profitability. Supplier allowances and promotional incentives which are often based on volume contribute significantly to United's profitability. If United does not comply with suppliers' terms and conditions, or does not make requisite purchases to achieve certain volume hurdles, United may not earn certain allowances and promotional incentives. In addition, if United's suppliers reduce or otherwise alter their allowances or promotional incentives, United's profit margin for the sale of the products it purchases from those suppliers may be harmed. The loss or diminution of supplier allowances and promotional support could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operation. United relies on independent dealers for a significant percentage of its net sales. Sales to independent office product dealers account for a significant portion of United's net sales. Independent dealers compete with national retailers that have substantially greater financial resources and technical and marketing capabilities. Over the years, several of the Company's independent dealer customers have been acquired by national retailers. If United's customer base of independent dealers declines, the Company's business and results of operations may be adversely affected. United operates in a competitive environment. The Company operates in a competitive environment. Competition is based largely upon service capabilities and price, as the Company's competitors are wholesalers that offer the same or similar products that the Company offers to the same customers or potential customers. United also faces competition from some of its own suppliers, which sell their products directly to United's customers. The Company's financial condition and results of operations depend on its ability to compete effectively on price, product selection and availability, marketing support, logistics and other ancillary services. The loss of key suppliers or supply chain disruptions could decrease United's revenues and profitability. United believes its ability to offer a combination of well-known brand name products, competitively-priced private brand products and support services is an important factor in attracting and retaining customers. The Company's ability to offer a wide range of products and services is dependent on obtaining adequate product supply and services from manufacturers or other suppliers. United's agreements with its suppliers are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or services from key suppliers at competitive prices could cause the Company's revenues and profitability to decrease. In addition, supply interruptions could arise due to transportation disruptions, labor disputes or other factors beyond United's control. Disruptions in United's supply chain could result in a decrease in revenues and profitability. United must manage inventory effectively in order to maximize supplier allowances while minimizing excess and obsolete inventory. To maximize supplier allowances and minimize excess and obsolete inventory, United must project end-consumer demand for over 100,000 SKUs in stock. If United underestimates demand for a particular manufacturer's products, the Company will lose sales, reduce customer satisfaction, and earn a lower 7 level of allowances from that manufacturer. If United overestimates demand, it may have to liquidate excess or obsolete inventory at a loss. United is focusing on increasing its sales of private brand products. These products can present unique inventory challenges. United sources many of its private brand products overseas, resulting in longer order-lead times than for comparable products sourced domestically. These longer lead-times make it more difficult to forecast demand accurately and require larger inventory investments to support high service levels. In addition, United generally does not have the right to return excess inventory of private brand products to the manufacturers. The replacement of legacy systems with new information technology systems better equipped to support the Company's business could disrupt United's business and result in increased costs and decreased revenues. The Company relies on information technology in all aspects of its business, including managing and replenishing inventory, filling and shipping customer orders and coordinating sales and marketing activities. Many of the Company's software applications are legacy systems, including order entry, order processing, pricing, billing, returns and credits, financial, and inventory receiving and control. The Company is building and implementing new applications to replace some of the legacy systems and to provide new services to customers. Interruptions in the proper functioning of the Company's information systems or delays in implementing new systems could disrupt United's business and result in increased costs and decreased revenue. A significant disruption or failure of the Company's existing information technology systems or in the Company's development and implementation of new systems could put it at a competitive disadvantage and could adversely affect its results of operations. United may not be successful in identifying, consummating and integrating future acquisitions. Historically, part of United's growth and expansion into new product categories or markets has come from targeted acquisitions. Going forward, United may not be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete the acquisition of any identified candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Furthermore, competition for attractive acquisition candidates may limit the number of acquisition candidates or increase the overall costs of making acquisitions. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired business systems and personnel with United's business; the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers; the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; the difficulties in achieving target synergies; and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. Difficulties in identifying, completing or integrating acquisitions could impede United's revenues and profitability. The Company relies heavily on its key executives and the loss of one or more of these individuals could harm the Company's ability to carry out its business strategy. United's ability to implement its business strategy depends largely on the efforts, skills, abilities and judgment of the Company's executive management team. United's success also depends to a significant degree on its ability to recruit and retain sales and marketing, operations and other senior managers. The Company may not be successful in attracting and retaining these employees, which may in turn have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Unexpected events could disrupt normal business operations, which might result in increased costs and decreased revenues. Unexpected events, such as hurricanes, fire, war, terrorism, and other natural or man-made disruptions, may increase the cost of doing business or otherwise impact United's financial performance. In addition, 8 damage to or loss of use of significant aspects of the Company's infrastructure due to such events could have an adverse affect on the Company's operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED COMMENT LETTERS. None. 