ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors in addition to the other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our results of operations. Current worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. As widely reported, severe economic challenges throughout the world, including most of the markets we serve, have greatly diminished liquidity and credit availability, and led to declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. We cannot predict the duration of the downturn or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. Global economic conditions could further impact demand for our products and our financial performance. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global markets and decreased consumer confidence in economic conditions. Further economic decline and uncertainty may lead to further turmoil in customer spending and may cause certain customers to cancel or delay placing orders. Our revenue decreased by $4.6 million to $491.8 million during the fiscal year ended May 29, 2010. We plan our operating expenses based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. The economic uncertainty makes it difficult for us to accurately predict future order activity and affects our ability to effectively manage our operating expenses and inventory levels and identify risks that may affect our business. A further shortfall in revenue could lead to financial and operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to manage inventory effectively or reduce operating expenses in response to the shortfall in revenue. We must continue to reduce our costs in order to compete effectively. We have taken, and continue to take, actions intended to reduce costs and increase productivity. Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost-reduction actions, in turn, could have the effect of reducing our talent pool and available resources and, consequently, could have long-term effects on our business by affecting our ability to respond to customers and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could negatively affect our financial performance, whether or not the cost reduction initiatives prove successful, and, as a result, adversely affect our stock price. We maintain a significant investment in inventory. We have also incurred significant charges for inventory obsolescence, and may incur similar charges in the future. We maintain significant inventories in an effort to ensure that customers have a reliable source of supply. The market for many of our products is characterized by rapid change as a result of the development of new technologies, evolving industry standards, and frequent new product introductions by some of our customers. We do not have many long-term supply contracts with our customers. Generally, our product sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to reduce or discontinue their purchases. If we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our customers and accurately forecast our customer demands, our customers may not continue to place orders with us, and we may accumulate significant inventories of products which we will be unable to sell or return to our vendors. This may result in a significant decline in the value of our inventory. We face competitive pressure in the markets we serve and, if we do not compete effectively, we could significantly harm our operating results. We face many competitors, both global and local, in the markets we serve. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including price, engineering capability, vendor representation, product diversity, and the level of customer service. Our competition includes hundreds of electronic component distributors of 6 Table of Contents various sizes, locations, and market focuses, as well as original equipment manufacturers. Some of our competitors have greater resources and broader name recognition than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to better withstand changing conditions within our markets and throughout the economy as a whole. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, or a loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Failure to maintain our relationships with key suppliers could adversely affect our sales. We have entered into distribution agreements or other purchase agreements with most of our suppliers. These agreements are typically non-exclusive and may be cancelled by either party on short notice. Sales of products from one of our suppliers, M/A-Com Technology Solutions, accounted for 13.7% of our consolidated sales in fiscal 2010. To the extent that our significant suppliers reduce the amount of products they sell through distribution, or are unwilling to continue to do business with us, or are unable to continue to meet or significantly alter their obligations, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, to the extent that our suppliers modify the terms of their contracts with us, or extend lead times, limit supplies due to capacity constraints, or other factors, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. During fiscal year 2010, 2009, and 2008, approximately 66%, 65% and 59%, respectively, of our sales came from our operations outside the United States. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. In addition, many of our employees, suppliers, and warehouse facilities are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors including: • interruption to transportation flows for delivery of products to us and to our customers; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; • differing labor regulations; • difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism or war. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations and financial results in the future. We may not have adequate or cost-effective liquidity or capital resources. We need cash for general corporate purposes, such as funding our ongoing working capital and capital expenditure needs. Our ability to satisfy our cash needs depends on our ability to generate cash from operations and to access the financial markets, both of which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. 7 Table of Contents We may in the future need to access the financial markets to satisfy our cash needs. However, external financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, under the terms of any external financing, we may incur higher than expected financing expenses and become subject to additional restrictions and covenants. An additional increase in our financing costs or a breach of our debt instrument covenant could have a material adverse effect on us. Under our credit agreement, we are required to maintain a specific leverage ratio. If we fail to meet these financial ratios and tests, we may be unable to continue to use our credit agreement. If we could not continue to use the credit agreement, we may not have sufficient cash available for general corporate needs. Our products may be found to be defective and, as a result, warranty and/or product liability claims may be asserted against us, which may have a material adverse effect on us. We sell many of our components at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. Since a defect or failure in a product could give rise to failures in the end products that incorporate them, we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits we receive from the components involved in the claims. While we typically have provisions in our agreements with our suppliers that hold the supplier accountable for defective products, and we and our suppliers generally exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited as a result of various factors, including the inability to exclude such damages due to the laws of some of the countries where we do business. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of a significant quality or performance issue in the components sold by us if we are required to pay for the damages that result. Although we have product liability insurance, such insurance is limited in coverage and amount. A single stockholder has voting control over us. As of July 19, 2010, Edward J. Richardson, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, beneficially owned approximately 99% of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 67% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock. This share ownership permits Mr. Richardson to exert control over the outcome of most stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests, and other significant corporate transactions. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results. Since a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., we face exposure to movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates, which may harm our results of operations. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations may make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our margins. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries in which we sell our products, our U.S. dollar reported net revenue and income will decrease. We currently do not engage in any currency hedging transactions. We cannot predict whether foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries will have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results in the future. Substantial defaults by our customers on our accounts receivable or the loss of significant customers could have a significant negative impact on our business. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Future acquisitions are subject to integration and other risks. We anticipate that we may, from time to time, selectively acquire additional businesses or assets. Acquisitions are accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In addition, we may not obtain the expected benefits or cost savings from acquisitions. Acquisitions are subject to risks associated with financing the acquisition and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or assets. If any of these risks materialize, they may result in disruptions to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, which could increase the costs of operating our existing or acquired businesses or negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to detect fraud or report our financial results accurately or timely, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An effective internal control environment is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of our effort to prevent financial fraud. We are required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls over financial reporting. Based on these evaluations, we may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm discovers material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or NASDAQ Global Market . Any such actions could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our access to capital. We are a defendant in a patent infringement lawsuit which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In June 2010, Activision TV, Inc. and Locke International Trust filed a patent infringement complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against us, NEC Display Solutions of America, Inc. and Tek Panel, Inc. The complaint alleges, among other things, that All-in-One display systems sold by our Canvys division, when used in conjunction with the Canvys Private Network offered by Canvys, infringes two patents owned by Locke International Trust. The complaint seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. This lawsuit, with our without merit, may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant expenses in our defense. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, or determine to abandon certain lines of business, that may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Our business is dependent upon the availability of our information systems. The failure of our information systems for any extended period of time could adversely affect our business. We rely on our information systems to process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of our products. We also rely on our systems to receive, process, bill, and ship orders on a timely basis. If our information systems are interrupted, damaged, or fail for any extended period of time, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 