Item 1A Risk Factors Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Item 4A Executive Officers of the Registrant Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. General United Stationers Inc. is North America's largest broad line wholesale distributor of business products, with consolidated net sales of approximately $4.4 billion. The company's network of 68 distribution centers allows it to offer nearly 50,000 items to its approximately 20,000 reseller customers. This network, combined with United's depth and breadth of inventory in technology products, traditional business products, office furniture, janitorial and sanitation products, and foodservice consumables, enables the company to ship products on an overnight basis to more than 90% of the U.S. and major cities in Canada and Mexico. Except where the context otherwise requires, the terms "United" and the "Company" refer to United Stationers Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The parent holding company, United Stationers Inc. (USI), was incorporated in 1981 in the State of Delaware. USI's only direct wholly owned subsidiary—and its principal operating company—is United Stationers Supply Co. (USSC), incorporated in 1922 in the State of Illinois. USSC sells traditional business products, as well as technology products through its Azerty marketing division and janitorial and sanitation products through its Lagasse, Inc. subsidiary. Products United distributes approximately 50,000 stockkeeping units ("SKUs") that are divided into these categories: Technology Products. The Company is a leading wholesale distributor of computer supplies and peripherals in North America. It offers approximately 12,000 items—such as printer cartridges, data storage, computer accessories and computer hardware items such as printers and other peripherals—to value-added computer resellers, office products dealers, drug stores and grocery chains. Technology products generated approximately 42% of the Company's 2005 consolidated net sales. Traditional Office Products. United is one of the largest national wholesale distributors of a broad range of office supplies. The Company carries approximately 20,000 brand-name and private label products—such as shredders, presentation products, writing instruments, paper products, organizers, calendars and general office accessories. These products accounted for approximately 29% of 2005 net sales. Janitorial/Sanitation Products. The Company is a leading wholesaler of janitorial and sanitation supplies throughout the U.S. It offers about 12,000 items in these subcategories: janitorial and sanitation supplies, foodservice consumables, safety and security items, and paper and packaging supplies. The janitorial/sanitation product category contributed approximately 16% of the latest year's net sales. Office Furniture. United is one of the largest office furniture wholesalers in North America. It provides more than 4,500 items—such as educational furniture, vertical and lateral file cabinets, leather chairs, wooden and steel desks and computer furniture—from approximately 60 manufacturers. This product category represented approximately 12% of net sales for the year. The remaining 1% of the Company's consolidated net sales came from freight and advertising revenue. For more information on sales by product category, as well as sales and assets attributable to domestic and international locations where the Company conducts business, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 1 Customers United serves a diverse group of over 20,000 customers. They include independent office products dealers and contract stationers, national mega-dealers, office products superstores, computer products resellers, office furniture dealers, mass merchandisers, mail order companies, sanitary supply distributors, drug and grocery store chains, and e-commerce merchants. No single customer accounted for more than 7.5% of 2005 consolidated net sales. Independent resellers accounted for nearly 80% of consolidated net sales in 2005. The Company provides these customers with specialized services designed to help them market their products and services while improving operating efficiencies and reducing costs. Marketing and Customer Support United's customers can purchase the majority of the products it distributes at similar prices from many other sources. As a matter of fact, most reseller customers purchase their products from more than one source, frequently using "first call" and "second call" distributors. A "first call" distributor typically is a reseller's primary wholesaler. A reseller's "first call" distributor has the first opportunity to fill an order. If the "first call" distributor cannot fill an order, or do so on a timely basis, the reseller will rely on its "second call" distributor. To differentiate itself from the competition, United's marketing efforts focus on providing value-added services to resellers: •A broad line of products for one-stop shopping; •High levels of products in stock, with an average line fill rate greater than 97% in 2005; •Efficient order processing, resulting in a 99.5% order accuracy rate in 2005; •High-quality customer service from several state-of-the-art call centers; •National distribution capabilities that enable same-day or overnight delivery to more than 90% of the U.S. and major metropolitan areas in Canada and Mexico, providing a 99% on-time delivery rate in 2005; •Training programs designed to help resellers improve their operations; and •End-consumer research to help resellers better understand their market. United's marketing programs emphasize two other major strategies. First, the Company produces an extensive array of catalogs for commercial dealers, contract stationers and retail dealers. These catalogs usually are custom printed with each reseller's name, then sold to the resellers who, in turn, distribute them to their customers. The Company markets its product offering through its General Line catalogs (available in both print and electronic versions) and specialty catalogs. Promotional catalogs typically are produced each quarter. United also develops separate quarterly flyers covering most of its product categories, including its private brand lines that offer a large selection of popular commodity products. Since catalogs and electronic content provide product exposure to end consumers and generate demand, United tries to maximize their distribution. Second, United provides its resellers with a variety of dealer support and marketing services. These programs are designed to help resellers differentiate themselves by making it easier for customers to buy from them. Resellers can place orders with the Company through the Internet, by phone, fax and e-mail and through a variety of electronic order entry systems. Electronic order entry systems allow resellers to forward their customers' orders directly to United, resulting in the delivery of pre-sold products to the reseller. In 2005, United received almost 90% of its orders electronically. 2 At year-end, the Company employed approximately 265 field salespeople, 160 tele-salespeople and 475 customer care representatives to support of its sales, marketing and customer service activities. Distribution The Company has a network of 68 distribution centers allowing it to offer nearly 50,000 items to its approximately 20,000 reseller customers. This network, combined with the Company's depth and breadth of inventory in technology products, traditional office products and office furniture, janitorial and sanitation products, and foodservices consumables, enables the Company to ship products on an overnight basis to more that 90% of the U.S. and major cities in Canada and Mexico. United's domestic operations generated $4.2 billion of its $4.4 billion in 2005 consolidated net sales, with its international operations contributing another $0.2 billion to 2005 net sales. Regional distribution centers are supplemented with 25 local distribution points across the U.S., which serve as re-distribution points for orders filled at the regional centers. United uses a dedicated fleet of approximately 550 trucks, most of which are under contract to the Company, enabling direct delivery to resellers from regional distribution centers and local distribution points. Resellers have visibility into United's inventory availability through its inventory locator system. If a reseller places an order for an item that is out of stock at the nearest distribution center, the system automatically searches for the product at other facilities within the shuttle network. When the item is found, the alternate location coordinates shipping with the primary facility. For most resellers, the result is a single on-time delivery of all items. This system gives United added inventory support while minimizing working capital requirements. As a result, the Company can provide higher service levels to its reseller customers, reduce back orders, and minimize time spent searching for substitute merchandise. These factors contribute to a high order fill rate and efficient levels of inventory. To meet its delivery commitments and to maintain high order fill rates, United carries a significant amount of inventory, which contributes to its overall working capital requirements. The "Wrap and Label" program is another important service for resellers. This program gives resellers the option to receive individually packaged orders ready to be delivered to their end consumers. For example, when a reseller places orders for several individual consumers, United can group and wrap the items separately, placing a label on each package with the consumer's name, so that the reseller need only deliver the packages. Resellers appreciate the "Wrap and Label" program because it eliminates the need to break down bulk shipments and repackage orders before delivering them to consumers. In addition to these value-adding programs for resellers, United is committed to reducing its operating costs. United's "War on Waste" program has a goal of removing $20 million in costs per year through a combination of new and continuing activities. These include such areas as enhancing productivity, streamlining the Company's operations, improving its policies and procedures for merchandise returns, and maximizing the efficiency of its fleet and transportation system. Purchasing and Merchandising As the largest broad line wholesale business products distributor in North America, United is able to leverage its broad product selection as a key merchandising strategy. The Company orders products from more than 600 manufacturers. This purchasing volume means United receives substantial supplier allowances and can realize significant economies of scale in its logistics and distribution activities. In 2005, United's largest supplier was Hewlett-Packard Company, representing approximately 24% of its total purchases. The Company's centralized Merchandising Department is responsible for selecting merchandise and for managing the entire supplier relationship. Product selection is based on three factors: end-consumer acceptance; anticipated demand for the product; and the manufacturer's total service, price and product 3 quality. As part of its effort to create an integrated supplier approach, United introduced the "Preferred Supplier Program". It is designed to strengthen relationships with suppliers by offering their products as preferred brands in the Company's marketing efforts, while working closely with them to reduce overall supply chain costs. Competition United competes with other national, regional and specialty wholesalers of office products, office furniture, technology products, and janitorial and sanitation and foodservice consumable supplies. In most cases, competition is based primarily upon net pricing, minimum order quantity, speed of delivery, and value-added marketing and logistics services. The Company also competes with manufacturers who often sell their products directly to resellers and may offer lower prices. United believes that it provides an attractive alternative to manufacturer direct purchases by offering a combination of value-added services, including 1) marketing and catalog programs, 2) same-day and next-day delivery, 3) a broad line of business products from multiple manufacturers on a "one-stop shop" basis, and 4) lower minimum order quantities. Competition with other broad line wholesalers is based on breadth of product lines, availability of products, speed of delivery to resellers, order fill rates, net pricing to resellers, and the quality of marketing and other value-added services. The Company competes with one national broad line office products competitor. Its competition also includes local and regional office products wholesalers and furniture, janitorial/sanitation and foodservice consumables distributors, which typically offer more limited product lines. In addition, United competes with various national distributors of computer consumables primarily on net pricing to resellers. General competition in the office products industry has led to greater price awareness among end consumers. As a result, purchasers of commodity office products are increasingly more price sensitive. The Company is addressing this trend by emphasizing to resellers the continuing advantages of our value-added services and competitive strengths, versus those offered by manufacturers and other wholesalers. Seasonality United's sales generally are relatively steady throughout the year. However, sales also reflect seasonal buying patterns for consumers of office products. In particular, the Company's sales usually are higher than average during January, when many businesses begin operating under new annual budgets and release previously deferred purchase orders. Employees As of March 1, 2006, United employed approximately 6,000 people. Management believes it has good relations with its employees. Approximately 650 of the shipping, warehouse and maintenance employees at certain of the Company's Pennsauken, Baltimore, Los Angeles and New Jersey facilities are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In 2005, United successfully renegotiated agreements with employees in the recently opened New Jersey facility and with the employees in the Pennsauken facility set to close in 2006. The bargaining agreements for Baltimore and Los Angeles are scheduled to expire in 2006 and 2007, respectively. The Company has not experienced any work stoppages during the past five years. Availability of the Company's Reports The Company's principal Web site address is www.unitedstationers.com. This site provides United's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K—as 4 well as amendments and exhibits to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") for free as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, copies of these filings (excluding exhibits) may be requested at no cost by contacting the Investor Relations Department: United Stationers Inc. After May 30, 2006: Attn: Investor Relations Department 2200 East Golf Road One Parkway North Boulevard Des Plaines, IL 60016-1267 Deerfield, IL 60015-2559 Telephone: (847) 699-5000 Telephone: (847) 627-7000 Fax: (847) 699-4716 E-mail: IR@ussco.com E-mail: IR@ussco.com ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks are not the only risks facing United; the Company's business operations could also be materially adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to United or that United currently deems immaterial. United may not achieve its cost-reduction and margin enhancement goals. United has set goals to improve its profitability over time by reducing expenses and enhancing gross margin. There can be no assurance that United will achieve its enhanced profitability goals. Factors that could have a significant effect on the Company's efforts to achieve these goals include the following: •Inability to achieve the Company's annual "War on Waste"(WOW) initiatives to reduce expenses and improve productivity and quality; •Failure to improve its sales mix between lower margin and higher margin products; •Inability to pass along cost increases from United's suppliers to its resellers; •Failure to increase sales of United's private brand products; •Disruption to the Company's supply chain for private branded products, resulting in poor fill rates; and •Failure of resellers to adopt the Company's product pricing and marketing programs. The loss of a significant customer could significantly reduce United's revenues and profitability. United's top five customers accounted for approximately 25% of the Company's 2005 net consolidated sales. The loss of one or more key customers, deterioration in the Company's relations with any of them or a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of any of them could significantly reduce United's sales and profitability. United relies on independent dealers for a significant percentage of its net sales. Sales to independent office product dealers accounted for a significant portion of United's 2005 sales. For many years independent dealers have been under significant competitive pressures from national retailers that have substantially greater financial resources and technical and marketing capabilities. More recently, several of the Company's independent dealer customers have been acquired by national retailers. If United's customer base of independent dealers declines, the Company's business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 5 If United is not able to compete successfully, its sales and profitability may decline. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment. Competition is based largely upon price and customer service, as many of the Company's competitors are distributors that offer the same or similar products that the Company offers to the same customers or potential customers. United also faces competition from some of its own suppliers, which sell their products directly to United's customers. Increased competition could result in lower sales volume, which would have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. United's operating results depend on the strength of the general economy. The customers United serves are affected by changes in economic conditions outside the Company's control, including national, regional and local slowdowns in general economic activity and job markets. Demand for the products and services the Company offers, particularly in office products, is affected by the number of white collar and other workers employed by the businesses United's customers serve. An interruption of growth in these markets or a reduction of white collar and other jobs may adversely affect the Company's operating results. Any future general economic downturn, together with the negative effect this has on the number of white collar workers employed, may adversely affect United's business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key suppliers or supply chain disruptions could decrease United's revenues and profitability. United believes its ability to offer a combination of well-known brand name products as well as competitively priced private brand products is an important factor in attracting and retaining customers. The Company's ability to offer a wide range of products is dependent on obtaining adequate product supply from manufacturers or other suppliers. United's agreements with its suppliers are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from key suppliers at competitive prices could cause the Company's revenues and profitability to decrease. In addition, supply interruptions could arise due to transportation disruptions, labor disputes or other factors beyond United's control. Disruptions in United's supply chain could result in a decrease in revenues and profitability. United's reliance on suppliers' allowances and promotional incentives could impact profitability. Supplier allowances and promotional incentives contribute significantly to United's profitability. If United does not comply with suppliers' terms and conditions, or does not make requisite purchases to achieve certain volume hurdles, United may not earn certain allowances and promotional incentives. In addition, if United's suppliers reduce or otherwise alter their allowances or promotional incentives, United's profit margin for the sale of the products it purchases from those suppliers may be harmed. The loss or diminution of supplier allowances and promotional support could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operation. United must manage inventory effectively in order to maximize supplier allowances while minimizing excess and obsolete inventory. United's profitability depends heavily on supplier allowances, which United earns based on the volume of merchandise United purchases. To maximize supplier allowances and minimize excess and obsolete inventory, United must project end-consumer demand for approximately 50,000 SKUs. If United underestimates demand for a particular manufacturer's products, the Company will lose sales, reduce customer satisfaction, and earn a lower level of allowances from that manufacturer. If United overestimates demand, it may have to liquidate excess or obsolete inventory at a loss. 6 Interruptions in the proper functioning of the Company's information systems or delays in implementing new systems could disrupt United's business and result in increased costs and decreased revenue. The Company relies on information technology in all aspects of its business, including managing and replenishing inventory, filling and shipping customer orders and coordinating sales and marketing activities. United is in the process of implementing Project Vision and developing new systems for its financial processes. In addition, United intends to move its data center beginning in 2006 and continuing through late 2007, following the relocation of the Company's headquarters in 2006. The operations of the data center could be negatively affected by the headquarters move or the subsequent data center move. A significant disruption or failure of the Company's existing information technology systems or in its development and implementation of new systems could put it at a competitive disadvantage and could adversely affect its results of operations. United may not be successful in identifying, consummating and integrating future acquisitions. United's growth strategy depends, in part, on acquiring other businesses. United may not be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete the acquisition of any identified candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Furthermore, competition for attractive acquisition candidates may limit the number of acquisition candidates or increase the overall costs of making acquisitions. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired business systems and personnel with United's business; the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers; the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; the difficulties in achieving target synergies; and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. Difficulties in identifying, completing or integrating acquisitions could impede United's revenues and profitability. The Company relies heavily on its key executives and the loss of one or more of these individuals could harm the Company's ability to carry out its business strategy. United's ability to implement its business strategy depends largely on the efforts, skills, abilities and judgment of the Company's executive management team. United's success also depends to a significant degree on its ability to recruit and retain sales and marketing, operations and other senior managers. The Company may not be successful in attracting and retaining these employees, which may in turn have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Unexpected events could disrupt normal business operations, which might result in increased costs and decreased revenues. Unexpected events, such as hurricanes, fire, war, terrorism, and other natural or man-made disruptions, may increase the cost of doing business or otherwise impact United's financial performance. In addition, damages to or loss of use of significant aspects of the Company's infrastructure due to such events could have an adverse affect on the Company's operating results and financial condition. United is subject to an informal inquiry by the SEC regarding its Canadian division. In March 2005, the staff of the SEC advised United that it was conducting an informal inquiry of United in connection with the Company's Azerty United Canada division and its financial reporting relating to supplier allowances, customer rebates and trade receivables, inventory and other items associated with the Canadian division. The Company conducted its own investigation, which resulted in the termination of several associates and a write-off in 2004 of approximately $13.2 million. (See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this matter.) United intends to continue to cooperate with the SEC in this inquiry. However, United is unable to predict its ultimate scope or outcome. 7 