Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our results of operations. These risks are not the only risks that we currently face. Our business operations and financial condition could also be materially adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that we currently deem immaterial. We have several years of historical losses and may have future losses. We had a loss from continuing operations of $8.5 million during the fiscal year ended May 31, 2008. We also had losses from continuing operations of approximately $4.0 million and $18.8 million during fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, respectively. We may continue to incur losses in the future. As a result, we can give no assurance that we will be capable of sustaining profitable operations. We must continue to reduce our costs in order to compete effectively. We have taken, and continue to take, actions intended to reduce costs and increase productivity. Our ability to complete these actions and the impact of such actions on our business may be limited by a variety of factors. The cost-reduction actions, in turn, could have the effect of reducing our talent pool and available resources and, consequently, could have long-term effects on our business by affecting our ability to respond to customers and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. These circumstances could negatively affect our financial performance and, as a result, adversely affect our stock price. In fiscal 2006 through 2008, we implemented plans to centralize our inventory distribution in three hubs located in the United States, Europe and Asia/Pacific, restructure our Latin American operations, and reduce our total workforce. Total restructuring costs to implement these plans were approximately $4.9 million, of which $2.2 million of severance costs were recorded during fiscal 2007 and $2.7 million of severance costs were recorded during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. During the third quarter of fiscal 2008, our Display Systems Group (“DSG”) began implementing a new business plan that included exiting unprofitable market segments, exiting distribution of low margin branded products, and an increased focus on digital signage. As a result of the shift in business focus, DSG eliminated more than 30 positions which we expect to result in more than $3.0 million of annualized cost savings. The impact of the cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by factors including, but not limited to: (i.) our ability to successfully complete these efforts; (ii.) our ability to generate the level of cost savings we need to effectively compete; (iii.) delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly-regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia; (iv.) decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees; and (v.) our ability to retain or recruit key employees. We have exposure to economic downturns and operate in cyclical markets. As a supplier of electronic components and services to a variety of industries, we can be adversely affected by general economic downturns. Many of our customers delay capital projects during economic downturns. Accordingly, our operating results for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for any future period. The markets served by our businesses have historically experienced downturns in demand that could harm our operating results. Future economic downturns could be triggered by such things as outbreaks of hostilities, terrorist actions, or epidemics in the United States or abroad. 10 Table of Contents We maintain a significant investment in inventory. We have also incurred significant charges for inventory obsolescence, and may incur similar charges in the future. We maintain significant inventories in an effort to ensure that customers have a reliable source of supply. The market for many of our products is characterized by rapid change as a result of the development of new technologies, evolving industry standards, and frequent new product introductions by some of our customers. We do not have many long-term supply contracts with our customers. Generally, our product sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to reduce or discontinue their purchases. If we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our customers and accurately forecast our customer demands, our customers may not continue to place orders with us, and we may accumulate significant inventories of products which we will be unable to sell or return to our vendors. This may result in a significant decline in the value of our inventory. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenue by distributing products designed and manufactured by third parties, we may be unable to anticipate changes in the marketplace and, as a result, could lose market share. Our business is driven primarily by customers’ needs and the demand for new products or products developed and manufactured by third parties. Because we distribute products developed and manufactured by third parties, our business would be adversely affected if our suppliers failed to anticipate which products or technologies will gain market acceptance or if we cannot sell these products at competitive prices. We cannot be certain that our suppliers will permit us to distribute their newly developed products, or that such products will meet our customers’ needs and demands. Additionally, because some of our principal competitors design and manufacture new technology, those competitors may have a competitive advantage. To successfully compete, we must maintain an efficient cost structure, an effective sales and marketing team, and offer additional services that distinguish us from our competitors. Failure to execute these strategies could harm our results of operations. We face intense competition in the markets we serve and, if we do not compete effectively, we could significantly harm our operating results. We face substantial competition in the markets we serve. Our competition includes hundreds of electronic component distributors of various sizes, locations, and market focuses as well as original equipment manufacturers. We also continue to face competition with various direct marketers. Some of our competitors have greater resources and broader name recognition than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to better withstand changing conditions within our markets and throughout the economy as a whole. Engineering capability, vendor representation, and product diversity create differentiation among distributors. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to provide engineered solutions, reliable delivery at competitive prices, technical support, and maintain inventory availability. To the extent we do not keep pace with technological advances or fail to timely respond to changes in competitive factors in our industry, we could lose market share and experience a deterioration of our overall financial results. Because we generally do not have long-term contracts with our vendors, we may experience shortages of products that could harm our business and customer relationships. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with any of our vendors that guarantee product availability. We cannot ensure that our vendors will meet our future requirements for timely delivery of products of sufficient quality or quantity. Any difficulties in the delivery of products could harm our relationships with customers and cause us to lose orders that could result in a significant decrease in our revenues. We also compete against certain vendors and our relationship with those vendors could be harmed as a result of competition. 11 Table of Contents Our products may be found to be defective and, as a result, warranty and/or product liability claims may be asserted against us, which may have a material adverse effect on us. We sell many of our components at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. Since a defect or failure in a product could give rise to failures in the end products that incorporate them, we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits we receive from the products involved in the claims. While we typically have provisions in our supplier agreements that hold the supplier accountable for defective products, and we and our suppliers generally exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited as a result of differing factors, such as the inability to exclude such damages due to the laws of some of the countries where we do business. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of a significant quality or performance issue in the products sold by us, if we are required to pay for the damages that result. Although we have product liability insurance, such insurance is limited in coverage and amount. Economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. In addition, many of our employees, suppliers, job functions and warehouse facilities are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • interruption to transportation flows for delivery of products to us and to our customers; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism or war. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations and financial results in the future. A single stockholder has voting control over us. As of July 29, 2008, Edward J. Richardson, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, beneficially owned approximately 99% of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 67% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock. This share ownership permits Mr. Richardson to exert control over the outcome of most stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests, and other significant corporate transactions. 12 Table of Contents We are exposed to foreign currency risk. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Since the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies, exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the U.S. dollar subject us to currency exchange risks with respect to the results of our foreign operations to the extent we were unable to denominate our purchases or sales in U.S. dollars or otherwise shift the risk of currency exchange rate fluctuations to our customers and suppliers. We currently do not engage in any currency hedging transactions. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect the results of our international operations reported in U.S. dollars and the value of such operations’ net assets reported in U.S. dollars. Additionally, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. We cannot predict whether foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries will have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results in the future. Our credit agreement and the indentures for our outstanding notes impose restrictions with respect to various business matters. Our credit agreement contains numerous restrictive covenants that limit the discretion of management with respect to certain business matters. These covenants place restrictions on, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to create liens or other encumbrances, to pay dividends or make other payments with respect to our shares of common stock and Class B common stock, to engage in transactions with affiliates, to make certain payments and investments, to merge or consolidate with another entity, and to repay indebtedness junior to indebtedness under the credit agreement. Our credit agreement contains only one financial covenant related to the ratio of senior funded debt to cash flow. In addition, the indentures for our outstanding notes contain covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we fail to comply with the obligations in our credit agreement or indentures, it could result in an event of default under those agreements. If an event of default occurs and is not cured or waived, it could result in acceleration of the indebtedness under those agreements, any of which could significantly harm our business and financial condition. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to detect fraud or report our financial results accurately or timely, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An effective internal control environment is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of our effort to prevent financial fraud. We are required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls over financial reporting. Based on these evaluations, we may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm discovers material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NASD. Any such actions could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our access to capital. 13 Table of Contents Our business is dependent upon the availability of our information systems. The failure of our information systems for any extended period of time could adversely affect our business. We rely on our information systems to process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of our products. We also rely on our systems to receive, process, bill, and ship orders on a timely basis. If our information systems are interrupted, damaged, or fail for any extended period of time, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 