ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors in addition to the other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our results of operations. We intend to reduce costs to improve our profitability. Our EDG and Canvys businesses generated modest operating income during fiscal 2011. With the closing of the Transaction, we are taking actions to re-align our cost structure to fit the remaining businesses. Our ability to complete these actions may be limited by a variety of factors. Cost-reduction actions to achieve our cost reduction objectives could have the effect of reducing our talent pool and available resources whether or not achieved, and, consequently, could affect our ability to serve customers and to hire and retain key personnel. We maintain a significant investment in inventory. We have also incurred significant charges for inventory obsolescence, and may incur similar charges in the future. We maintain significant inventories in an effort to ensure that customers have a reliable source of supply. The market for many of our products is characterized by rapid change as a result of the development of new technologies, evolving industry standards, and frequent new product introductions by some of our customers. We do not have many long-term supply contracts with our customers. If we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our customers and accurately forecast our customer demands, our customers may not continue to place orders with us, and we may accumulate significant inventories of products which we will be unable to sell or return to our vendors. This may result in a significant decline in the value of our inventory. We face competitive pressure in the markets we serve. We face many competitors, both global and local, in the markets we serve. Our overall competitive position depends on a number of factors including price, engineering capability, vendor representation, product diversity, lead times and the level of customer service. Our competition includes hundreds of electronic component distributors of various sizes, locations, and market focuses, as well as original equipment manufacturers and refurbishers. Some of our competitors have greater resources and broader name recognition than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to better withstand changing conditions within our markets and throughout the economy as a whole. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, or a loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. EDG is dependent on a limited number of vendors to supply it with essential products. Electron tubes and certain other products supplied by EDG are currently produced by a relatively small number of manufacturers. Our success depends, in large part, on maintaining current vendor relationships and developing new relationships. We believe that vendors supplying products to some of the product lines of EDG are consolidating their distribution relationships or exiting the business. To the extent that our significant suppliers reduce the amount of products they sell through distribution are unwilling to continue to do business with us, or are unable to continue to meet or significantly alter their obligations to us, such as by extending lead times, limiting supplies, or other factors, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we sell and source our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a 7 Table of Contents majority of our total revenue. In addition, many of our employees, suppliers, and warehouse facilities are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors including: • interruption of transportation needed for delivery of products to us and to our customers; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in political or economic conditions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • changes in tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; • differing labor regulations; • difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war, or natural disasters, may negatively affect our results from operations Our products may be found to be defective and, as a result, warranty and/or product liability claims may be asserted against us. We sell many of our components at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. Since a defect or failure in a product could give rise to failures in the end products that incorporate them, we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profits we receive from the components involved in the claims. While we typically have provisions in our agreements with our suppliers that hold the supplier accountable for defective products, and we and our suppliers generally exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited as a result of various factors, including the inability to exclude such damages due to the laws of some of the countries where we do business. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of a significant quality or performance issue in the components sold by us if we are required to pay for the damages that result. Although we have product liability insurance, such insurance is limited in coverage and amount. A single stockholder has voting control over us. As of July 22, 2011, Edward J. Richardson, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, beneficially owned approximately 99% of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 67% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock. This share ownership permits Mr. Richardson to exert control over the outcome of most stockholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, by-law amendments, possible mergers, corporate control contests, and other significant corporate transactions. Foreign currency exchange rates may materially affect our results. Since a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., we face exposure to movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates, which may harm our results of operations. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations may make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our margins. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, when the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries in which we sell our products, our U.S. dollar reported net revenue and income will decrease. We currently do not engage in any currency hedging transactions. We cannot predict whether foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries will have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results in the future. 8 Table of Contents Substantial defaults by our customers on our accounts receivable or the loss of significant customers could have a significant negative impact on our business. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers with a significant accounts receivable balance were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions are subject to integration and other risks. We anticipate that we may, from time to time, selectively acquire additional businesses or assets. Acquisitions are accompanied by risks, such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. In addition, we may not obtain the expected benefits or cost savings from acquisitions. Acquisitions are subject to risks associated with financing the acquisition and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or assets. If any of these risks materialize, they may result in disruptions to our business and the diversion of management time and attention, which could increase the costs of operating our existing or acquired businesses or negate the expected benefits of the acquisitions. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to detect fraud or report our financial results accurately or timely. An effective internal control environment is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of our effort to prevent financial fraud. We are required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls over financial reporting. Based on these evaluations, we may conclude that enhancements, modifications or changes to internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including fraud, collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, or if management or our independent registered public accounting firm discovers material weaknesses in our internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud. In addition, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or NASDAQ Global Select Market. Any such actions could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, could require payment of damages or licensing fees, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Substantial litigation and threats of litigation regarding intellectual property rights exist in the display systems and electronics industries. From time to time, third parties (including certain companies in the business of acquiring patents not for the purpose of developing technology but with the intention of aggressively seeking licensing revenue from purported infringers) may assert patent and/or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. In any dispute involving products that we have sold, our customers could also become the target of litigation. We are obligated in many instances to indemnify and defend our customers if the products we sell are alleged to infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights. In some cases, depending on the nature of the claim, we may be able to seek indemnification from our suppliers for our self and our customers against such claims, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such 9 Table of Contents indemnification or that we are fully protected against such claims. Any infringement claim brought against us, regardless of the duration, outcome or size of damage award, could: • result in substantial cost to us; • divert management’s attention and resources; • be time consuming to defend; • result in substantial damage awards; • cause product shipment delays; or • require us to seek to enter into royalty or other licensing agreements. Additionally, if an infringement claim is successful we may be required to pay damages or seek royalty or license arrangements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The payment of any such damages or royalties may significantly increase our operating expenses and harm our operating results and financial condition. Also, royalty or license arrangements may not be available at all. We may have to stop selling certain products or using technologies, which could affect our ability to compete effectively. We are currently a defendant in one patent infringement lawsuit and have received a claim for indemnification from a customer who is a defendant in a second patent infringement lawsuit. Any of these suits could have a material adverse effect on our business. In March 2011, Kyocera International, Inc. filed a complaint against us, Richardson RFPD, Inc., Arrow Electronics Inc. and Fractus, S.A., in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain products manufactured by Fractus, S.A., and offered for sale by our former RFPD division, infringe two patents owned by Kyocera Corporation and exclusively licensed to Kyocera International, Inc. The complaint seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, and costs. We sold the products at issue under the terms of a Distribution Agreement with Fractus pursuant to which Fractus agreed to indemnify us from any losses, costs, liabilities, damages or expenses arising from infringement or alleged infringement of intellectual property rights in connection with our sale of Fractus products. In March 2011, we were notified by 3M Company that a complaint had been filed against us on March 16, 2011, by Ogma, LLC in the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that several of 3M’s products infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,825,427 owned by Ogma. Our Canvys division supplies at least one of the products at issue to 3M pursuant to a Product Supply Agreement, and 3M has asserted a claim for indemnity against us pursuant to the terms of the Product Supply Agreement. These lawsuits, with or without merit, may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant expenses in our defense. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, or determine to abandon certain lines of business, that may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We depend on key management and employees, the loss of whom may prevent us from implementing our business plans, limit our profitability and decrease the value of our common stock. We are dependent on the talent and resources of our key executives and employees. In particular, the success of our business depends to a great extent on Edward J. Richardson, our President, Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of our Board of Directors. Mr. Richardson has extensive experience in the electron device industry, and his services are critical to our success. We have not obtained key man insurance with respect to Mr. Richardson or any of our executive officers. The loss of Mr. Richardson may prevent us from implementing our business plan, which may limit our profitability and decrease the value of our common stock. 10 Table of Contents If we are deemed to be an investment company, we will be required to meet burdensome compliance requirements and restrictions on our activities. As a result of the closing of the Transaction, we have significant cash reserves. If we are deemed to be an “investment company” as defined under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”), the nature of our investments may be subject to various restrictions. In addition, we may be subject to burdensome compliance requirements and may have to: • register as an investment company; • adopt a specific form of corporate structure; and • report, maintain records and adhere to voting, proxy, disclosure and other requirements. We do not believe that our principal activities subject us to the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would increase our operating expenses. The Acquisition Agreement exposes us to contingent liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have agreed to indemnify Arrow Electronics for breaches of any representation, warranty, or covenant made by us in the Acquisition Agreement, for losses arising out of or in connection with excluded assets or excluded liabilities, and for certain other matters. Significant indemnification claims by Arrow Electronics could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are not obligated to indemnify Arrow Electronics for any breach of the representations, warranties or covenants made by us under the Acquisition Agreement unless any individual claim for indemnification exceeds $10,000 and the aggregate amount of all such claims for indemnification exceed $2.1 million. In the event that claims for indemnification for breach of most of the representations and warranties made by us under the Acquisition Agreement exceed this threshold, we will be obligated to indemnify Arrow Electronics for any damages or loss resulting from such breach in excess of $2.1 million up to $42 million. Claims for indemnification for breaches of covenants made by us under the Acquisition Agreement and for breaches of representations and warranties related to authorization, taxes and brokers will not be subject to the deductible or aggregate liability cap described above. Claims for indemnification for losses by Arrow Electronics arising out of or in connection with excluded assets or excluded liabilities and certain other matters are not subject to any of the individual limit, the deductible or the aggregate liability cap described above. If the information technology services that are rendered to us pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement with Arrow Electronics do not adequately support us, our business may suffer. Pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement with Arrow Electronics, Arrow Electronics purchased our entire IT operations, and pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement between us and Arrow, Arrow provides IT services to us consistent with those services provided to us by our IT operations prior to the Transaction. We rely on these information systems to process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of our products, as well as to receive, process, bill, and ship orders on a timely basis. If the IT services provided by Arrow Electronics are not provided to us in an adequate manner, we may be unable to find an alternative means of obtaining such IT services, which could significantly impair our ability to effectively serve our customers and perform other vital company functions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 