Item 1A. Risk Factors Sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and management’s public comments and press releases from time to time may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting our operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information as actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated. The following discussion identifies the known material factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our television businesses may not be able to compete effectively. Certain new technologies are affecting our television stations adversely. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, the Internet, telephone company services, mobile devices, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences and expanded the numbers and types of distribution channels for advertisers to access. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms, and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major broadcast television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, telephone and wireless companies, the Internet and other technological changes have increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire or develop desired programming. In addition, video compression techniques, now in use with direct broadcast satellites and potentially soon for cable, telephone and wireless, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming, resulting in more audience fractionalization. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures, and competitors who target programming to such sharply defined markets may increase competition for advertising dollars. If we are unable to compete with or successfully respond to these changes in technology, our advertising revenues could be reduced, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to secure or maintain carriage of our television stations’ signals over cable and/or direct broadcast satellite systems, our television stations may not be able to compete effectively. Pursuant to the FCC rules, local television stations must elect every three years to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the stations’ primary signals or (2) enter into retransmission consent negotiations for carriage. At present, Belo has retransmission consent agreements with the majority of cable operators in its markets and both satellite providers. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not renewed, or if our broadcast signals are distributed on less favorable terms than our competitors, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Belo Corp. 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 9 Table of Contents The loss or modification of network affiliation agreements and changes by the national broadcast television networks in their respective business models and practices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The non-renewal, termination or material modification of our network affiliation agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have four stations affiliated with ABC, five stations affiliated with CBS, four stations affiliated with NBC, two stations affiliated with CW, two stations affiliated with MNTV and one station affiliated with FOX. Each of ABC, CBS, and NBC generally provide our affiliated stations with 22 hours of prime time programming per week. Each of our affiliation agreements has a stated expiration date. As a condition to the renewal of affiliation agreements, the networks with which our stations are affiliated are negotiating for the elimination of network affiliate compensation that we historically have received for cash payments from us, and for other modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place under existing terms. Material modifications to these agreements may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms, and in some cases, in close proximity to network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our stations. Decreases in advertising spending resulting from economic downturns, natural disasters, war, terrorism or other factors specific to the communities we serve can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our revenues are subject to seasonal, cyclical and other fluctuations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial majority of our revenues are generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns, so a recession or economic downturn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2009, the worldwide economy endured unprecedented financial turmoil, tightened credit markets, inflation and deflation concerns, decreased consumer confidence, uncertain corporate profits and capital spending, uncertain business conditions, increased liquidity concerns and an increase in business insolvencies. This turmoil and uncertainty regarding economic conditions negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, our advertisers and cause them to postpone their advertising decision-making or decrease their advertising spending, among other things, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict the timing, magnitude or duration of any future global economic downturn or subsequent recovery. Our ability to generate advertising revenues is and will continue to be affected by financial market conditions, consumer confidence, advertiser challenges and changes in the national and sometimes international economy, as well as by regional economic conditions in each of the markets in which our stations operate. We have a significant concentration of assets in Texas, the Northwest and Arizona, which makes the economic condition of these regions of particular consequence to our financial condition and results of operations. Advertisers’ budgets, the amounts of which are affected by broad economic trends, affect the broadcast industry in general and the revenues of individual broadcast television stations in particular. Our advertising revenues depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities we serve. Changes in those factors could negatively affect advertising revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores and other businesses, and local economic conditions in general. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2010, 19.8 percent of our television advertising revenues were from the automotive industry. The success of the automotive manufacturers and dealers in meeting the economic challenges facing the automotive industry will continue to affect the amount of their advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonal, cyclical and other fluctuations that we expect to continue. In particular, we typically experience fluctuations in our revenues between even and odd numbered years. During elections for various state and national offices, which are primarily in even numbered years, advertising revenues tend to increase because of political advertising in our markets. Advertising revenues in odd numbered years tend to be less than in even numbered years due to the significantly lower level of political advertising in our markets. Also, since NBC has exclusive rights to broadcast the Olympics through 2012, our NBC affiliate stations typically experience increased viewership and revenues during Olympic broadcasts, which also occur in even numbered years. Other seasonal and cyclical factors that affect our revenues and results of operations may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures and general economic factors. PAGE 10 Belo Corp. 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Our television businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and our ability to maintain market share and generate revenues depends on how effectively we compete with existing and new competition. Our television businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with newspapers and other broadcast and cable television stations, as well as with other media such as magazines, telephone and/or wireless companies, satellite television and the Internet. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do and the ability to distribute more targeted advertising. Cable companies and others have developed national advertising networks in recent years that increase the competition for national advertising. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Advertising rates are set based upon a variety of factors, including a program’s popularity among the advertiser’s target audience, the number of advertisers competing for the available time, the size and demographic make-up of the market served and the availability of alternative advertising in the market. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, syndicated and local programming. Changes in market demographics, the entry of competitive stations into our markets, the transition to new methods and technologies for measuring audiences such as Local People Meters, the introduction of competitive local news or other programming by cable, satellite, Internet, telephone or wireless providers, or the adoption of competitive offerings by existing and new providers could result in lower ratings and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of syndicated television programming may increase, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Programming is a significant operating cost in our television businesses. We cannot be certain that we will not be exposed to future increases in programming costs. Should such increases occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In addition, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to less than expected revenues, which could result in programming write-downs. Additionally, in some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs. These write-offs increase station operating costs and decrease station results of operations. Regulatory changes may affect our strategy and increase competition and operating costs in our media businesses. As described in this Item 1–Business–FCC Regulation, our television businesses are subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. For example, federal regulations affect spectrum, the retransmission consent process, political advertising rates, indecency on broadcast television and children’s programming. Changes in current regulations or the adoption of new laws and policies, including those involving our spectrum use and modifications to existing television market designations, could affect our strategy, increase competition and our operating costs, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies govern the term, renewal and transfer of our television broadcasting licenses and limit certain concentrations of broadcasting control and ownership of multiple television stations. Relaxation of ownership restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to those with greater financial and other resources than we possess. On May 27, 2010, STELA was signed into law extending SHVERA and authorizing DBS operators to deliver distant signals to unserved households through the end of 2014. In December 2010, the FCC adopted regulations to implement STELA’s revisions to SHVERA. SHVERA established a statutory copyright license to enable DBS companies to provide programming to local viewers. On March 16, 2010, the FCC delivered to Congress a “National Broadband Plan.” The National Broadband Plan, among other things, makes recommendations regarding the use of spectrum currently allocated to television broadcasters, including seeking the voluntary surrender of certain portions of the television broadcast spectrum and repacking the currently allocated spectrum to make portions of that spectrum available for other wireless communications services. Prior to implementation of the proposals contained in the National Broadband Plan, further action by the FCC or Congress or both is necessary. On November 30, 2010, the Commission issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes preliminary rule changes to allow a portion of the spectrum currently allocated to broadcasters to be repurposed for broadband use. Changes in the rules governing use of the television broadcasting spectrum may affect the Company materially. Belo Corp. 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 11 Table of Contents Belo cannot predict the outcome of any FCC or other regulatory action or any Congressional legislation in these matters or the impact on our business, competition, operating costs and other financial matters. If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our broadcast operations will be impaired. Our television businesses depend upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC. Our broadcast licenses expired or will expire between 2006 and 2015 (although those that have already expired have been extended by the filing of a license renewal application with the FCC) and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. The FCC has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term. Although we expect to renew all our FCC licenses, we cannot assure investors that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. Failing to renew any of our stations’ main licenses could prevent us from operating the affected stations which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we renew our licenses with substantial qualifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of less than the standard term of eight years), it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur increased expenses or liabilities if some of the agreements with A. H. Belo are terminated or if A. H. Belo fails to perform. In connection with the spin-off, Belo entered into a services agreement with A. H. Belo. If the agreement is terminated prior to the transition of such services to Belo or third parties, Belo may be required to obtain the needed services earlier than expected. Also in connection with the spin-off, Belo and A. H. Belo agreed to share certain liabilities and expenses and to indemnify each other for certain expenses and liabilities attributable to one company or the other. For example, prior to January 1, 2011, Belo agreed to retain complete sponsorship of The G. B. Dealey Retirement Pension Plan (Pension Plan), which is currently underfunded, rather than divide the plan into two separate plans. In return, A. H. Belo was required to reimburse Belo for approximately 60 percent of all cash contributions made by Belo to the Pension Plan. This percentage approximates the pension obligations relating to plan participants associated with A. H. Belo. In October 2010, the Boards of Directors for Belo and A. H. Belo agreed to an irrevocable split of the Pension Plan effective January 1, 2011 whereby the Pension Plan assets and liabilities were divided into pension plans separately sponsored by the respective companies. In addition, at the time of the spin-off, A. H. Belo assumed Belo’s liabilities relating to certain ongoing agreements and other matters. If A. H. Belo does not satisfy these contingent liabilities when due, it is possible that Belo may be required to satisfy them. Although Belo is not expecting to be called on to meet any of these contingent obligations, if it were to happen, it could adversely affect Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. Certain members of management, directors and shareholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest. The Company and A. H. Belo have several common directors. The management and directors of Belo and A. H. Belo may own both Belo common stock and A. H. Belo common stock. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when Belo’s and A. H. Belo’s management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for each company. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute or indemnification claims between Belo and A. H. Belo regarding the terms of the agreements governing the spin-off and the relationship between Belo and A. H. Belo thereafter. Conflicts of interest could also arise out of any commercial arrangements that Belo and A. H. Belo may enter into in the future. In addition, media properties owned by A. H. Belo are attributable to Belo for purposes of FCC rules and regulations limiting ownership of multiple media properties, which could limit our ability to purchase stations in A. H. Belo’s newspaper markets. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our businesses effectively if we lose the services of our senior executive officers or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We depend on the efforts of our senior executive officers. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. We have not entered into employment agreements with our key management personnel and we do not have “key person” insurance for any of our senior executive officers or other key personnel. PAGE 12 Belo Corp. 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents We have a large amount of indebtedness. Access to our existing credit facility requires that we meet several covenants, which could be more challenging in a difficult operating environment. We currently use a portion of our operating cash flow for debt service. We may continue to borrow funds to finance capital expenditures, bond repurchases, acquisitions or investments or to refinance debt, as well as for other purposes. Our level of indebtedness could, for example: • Require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, bond repurchases, dividends, acquisitions or investments and other general corporate activities; • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • Expose us to greater interest rate risk on credit facilities where interest rates vary; and • Impair our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to any of our less leveraged competitors. In addition, our debt agreements require us to comply with certain covenants. At December 31, 2010, the maximum allowed leverage ratios, minimum required interest coverage ratios and maximum allowed senior leverage ratios are as follows: Minimum Maximum Maximum Allowed Required Interest Allowed Senior From To Leverage Ratio Coverage Ratio Leverage Ratio December 31, 2010 March 30, 2012 7.25 1.50 1.50 March 31, 2012 June 29, 2012 7.00 1.50 1.50 June 30, 2012 September 29, 2012 6.75 1.75 1.50 September 30, 2012 Thereafter 6.25 1.75 1.50 While we were well within these limits at December 31, 2010, the failure in the future to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing the terms of our indebtedness could be an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of all our indebtedness and payment obligations. See Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion on debt service. Changes in accounting standards can significantly affect reported earnings and operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying pronouncements and implementation guidelines for many aspects of our business, including those related to intangible assets, pensions, income taxes, share-based compensation, and broadcast rights, are complex and involve significant judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results. See Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2–Recently Issued Accounting Standards. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, and if we are required to write down intangible assets in future periods, it would reduce net income. Approximately 72.3 percent of our total assets as of December 31, 2010, consisted of intangible assets, principally broadcast licenses and goodwill. Generally accepted accounting standards require, among other things, an annual impairment testing of broadcast licenses and goodwill. Additionally, the Company continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the economy and capital markets, require an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as of investments and long-lived assets. Any significant shortfall in future advertising revenue could lead to additional downward revisions in the fair value of certain reporting units. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, an investment or long-lived asset could result in an impairment, and a non-cash charge would be required. Any such charge could be material to the Company’s reported results of operations. See Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion of the goodwill and intangible asset assessment process and impairment charges recorded in 2009 and 2008. Failure of the spin-off to qualify as a tax-free transaction could result in substantial liability. In connection with the spin-off, Belo received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to Belo and Belo Belo Corp. 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 13 Table of Contents shareholders for United States federal income tax purposes. Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual assumptions or representations made by Belo in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Belo may not be able to rely on the ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, a substantial corporate tax would be payable by Belo. Further, if the spin-off is not tax-free, each Belo shareholder generally would be taxed as if he or she had received a cash distribution equal to the fair market value of the shares of A. H. Belo common stock on the date of the spin-off. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 