Item 1A. Risk Factors Sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and management’s public comments and press releases from time to time may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting our business, financial condition and operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information as actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated. The following discussion identifies the known material factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Decreases in advertising spending resulting from economic downturns, natural disasters, war, terrorism or other factors specific to the communities we serve can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our revenues are subject to seasonal, cyclical and other fluctuations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial majority of our revenues are generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns, so a recession or economic downturn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the timing, magnitude or duration of any future economic downturn or subsequent recovery. Our ability to generate advertising revenues is and will continue to be affected by financial market conditions, consumer confidence, advertiser challenges and changes in the national and international economy, as well as by regional economic conditions in each of the markets in which our stations operate. We have a significant concentration of assets in Texas, the Northwest and Arizona, which makes the economic condition of these regions of particular consequence to our financial condition and results of operations. Advertisers’ budgets, the amounts of which are affected by broad economic trends, affect the broadcast industry in general and the revenues of individual broadcast television stations in particular. Our advertising revenues depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities we serve. Changes in those factors could negatively affect advertising revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores and other businesses, and local economic conditions in general. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2012, 23.1 percent of our total spot revenues were from the automotive industry and 12.1 percent of total spot revenues were from the retail category. The success of the automotive manufacturers and dealers and the retail industry in meeting the economic challenges facing their industries will continue to affect the amount of their advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonal, cyclical and other fluctuations that we expect to continue. In particular, we typically experience fluctuations in our revenues between even and odd numbered years. During elections for various state and national offices, which are primarily in even-numbered years, advertising revenues tend to increase because of political advertising in our markets. Advertising revenues in odd-numbered years tend to be less than in even-numbered years due to the significantly lower level of political advertising in our markets. Also, since NBC has exclusive rights to broadcast the Olympics through 2020, our NBC affiliate stations typically experience increased viewership and revenues during Olympic broadcasts, which also occur in even-numbered years. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our business may not be able to compete effectively. New technologies are affecting the competitive landscape of our television stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, the Internet, telephone company Belo Corp. 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 9 Table of Contents services, mobile devices, digital video recorders, video on demand, and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences and expanded the numbers and types of distribution channels for advertisers to access. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms, and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major broadcast television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, telephone and wireless companies, the Internet and other technological changes has increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming and audiences. In addition, video compression techniques, now in use with direct broadcast satellites and potentially soon for cable, telephone and wireless, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming, resulting in more audience fractionalization. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures, and competitors who target programming to such defined markets may increase competition for advertising dollars. If we are unable to compete with or successfully respond to these changes in technology, our advertising revenues could be reduced, and developing new sources could be difficult, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss or modification of network affiliation agreements, changes by the national broadcast television networks in their respective business models and practices, and the migration of network programming to cable, the Internet and other platforms, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The non-renewal, termination or material modification of our network affiliation agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have four stations affiliated with ABC, five stations affiliated with CBS, four stations affiliated with NBC, two stations affiliated with CW, two stations affiliated with MNTV and one station affiliated with FOX. Each of ABC, CBS, and NBC generally provides our affiliated stations with 22 hours of prime time programming per week. Each of our affiliation agreements has a stated expiration date. As these affiliation agreements are renewed, networks are pursuing escalations in programming payments. Additionally, networks increasingly require their affiliates to contribute toward payments for major sports and event programming. In recent years, the networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms, and in some cases, within a short period of the original network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. Programming migration by the networks to cable, the Internet and other distribution vehicles dilutes the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our stations. Our television businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and our ability to maintain market share and generate revenues depends on how effectively we compete with existing and new competition. Our television stations operate in highly competitive markets. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other broadcast and cable television stations and newspapers, as well as with other media such as magazines, telephone and/or wireless companies, satellite television and the Internet. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and other resources than we do and the ability to distribute more targeted advertising. Cable companies and others have developed national advertising networks in recent years that increase the competition for national advertising. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues primarily on the basis of programming content and distribution means, and advertising rates. Viewer accessibility is also becoming a factor as is the inability to measure new audiences which could impact advertising rates. Advertising rates are set based upon a variety of factors, including a program’s popularity among the advertiser’s target audience, the number of advertisers competing for the available time, the size and demographic make-up of the market served and the availability of alternative advertising avenues in the market. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, syndicated and local programming. Changes in market demographics, the entry of competitive stations into our markets, the transition to new methods and technologies for PAGE 10 Belo Corp. 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents distributing programming and measuring audiences such as Local People Meters, the introduction of competitive local news or other programming by cable, satellite, Internet, telephone or wireless providers, or the adoption of competitive offerings by existing and new providers could result in lower ratings and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future strategic initiatives and/or acquisitions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We assess opportunities to increase our business and selectively invest in strategic initiatives and/or acquisitions. These opportunities can pose various risks. If we do not realize the expected benefits or operating synergies, there may be an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of programming content may increase, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Programming–syndicated, network and local–is a significant operating cost. We may be exposed to future increases in programming costs. In addition, in recent years the networks have required their affiliates to contribute increasing amounts toward the cost of major sports and event programming, which affects our programming expense and results of operations. Acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In addition, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to less than expected revenues, which could result in programming write-downs. Additionally, in some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs. These write-offs increase station operating costs and decrease station results of operations. Regulatory changes may affect our strategy and use of broadcast spectrum, and increase competition and operating costs in our media businesses. As described in this Item 1–Business–FCC Regulation, our television businesses are subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. For example, federal regulations affect spectrum, the retransmission consent process, political advertising rates, indecency on broadcast television and children’s programming. Changes in current regulations or the adoption of new laws and policies, including those involving our spectrum use and modifications to existing television market designations and the retransmission consent process, could affect our strategy, increase competition and our operating costs, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies govern the term, renewal and transfer of our television broadcasting licenses and limit certain concentrations of broadcasting control and ownership of multiple television stations. Relaxation of ownership restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to those with greater financial and other resources than we possess. In February 2012, Congress passed and the President signed legislation authorizing the FCC to conduct an incentive auction in which television broadcasters could participate on a voluntary basis and receive a portion of the proceeds in return for relinquishing some or all of their licensed spectrum. This legislation implements a portion of the “National Broadband Plan,” delivered to Congress by the FCC in March 2010, which made recommendations regarding the reallocation of spectrum, including spectrum currently allocated to television broadcasters, for use by other wireless communications services. The legislation also authorized the FCC to reassign television channels as part of a “repacking” process following the auction. The FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking proposing preliminary rule changes to allow a portion of the spectrum currently allocated to broadcasters to be repurposed for wireless broadband use. The FCC also will need to adopt rules to implement the February 2012 legislation. These and other changes in the law governing use of the television broadcasting spectrum could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Belo cannot predict the outcome of any FCC or other regulatory action or any Congressional legislation in these matters or the impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Belo Corp. 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to secure or maintain carriage of our television stations’ signals on favorable terms with cable operators, direct broadcast satellite system owners and/or telephone companies, our television stations may not be able to compete effectively. Pursuant to the FCC rules, local television stations must elect every three years to either (1) require cable operators, direct broadcast satellite operators and/or telephone companies to carry the stations’ primary signals or (2) enter into retransmission consent negotiations for carriage. At present, Belo has retransmission consent agreements with the majority of cable operators in its markets, both satellite providers and several telephone companies. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not renewed, or if our broadcast signals are distributed on materially less favorable terms than we or our competitors are able to obtain currently, or if the retransmission consent regime is materially changed or eliminated, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our businesses effectively if we lose the services of our senior management or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We depend on the efforts of our senior management. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. We have not entered into employment agreements with our key management personnel and we do not have “key person” insurance for any of our senior management or other key personnel. We have a large amount of indebtedness. Access to our existing credit facility is dependent upon meeting certain covenants. We currently use a portion of our operating cash flow for debt service. We may borrow funds to finance capital expenditures, bond or stock repurchases, dividends, acquisitions or investments or to refinance debt, as well as for other purposes. In the event of a more difficult operating or economic environment, our level of indebtedness could, for example: • Reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, bond or stock repurchases, dividends, acquisitions or investments and other general corporate activities; • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • Expose us to greater interest rate risk on credit facilities where interest rates vary; • Impair our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business; and • Place us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors. Declines in our pension plan asset values and market discount rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company has a non-contributory qualified defined benefit pension plan covering certain employees and former employees of Belo. The Company’s pension plan has been frozen to new participants since 2000 and benefits under the plan have been frozen since March 2007. In certain recent years, the Company, like many other companies, experienced significant declines in investment returns on pension assets due to adverse changes in the U.S. and foreign securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed investment returns and declines in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. The pension plan is currently underfunded and there can be no assurance that investment returns and discount rates will not experience additional declines in the future. Significant declines in pension asset investment returns and declines in discount rates could adversely affect the funded status of the plan and our financial position. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, and if we are required to write down intangible assets in future periods, it would reduce net income and retained earnings. Our intangible assets, principally broadcast licenses and goodwill, represent 76.6 percent of our total assets as of December 31, 2012. Generally accepted accounting standards require, among other things, an annual impairment testing of broadcast licenses and goodwill. Any significant shortfall in future advertising revenue or adverse change PAGE 12 Belo Corp. 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents in our cost structure could lead to decreases in the fair value of certain reporting units. Such decreases could result in an impairment, and a non-cash charge would be required. Any such charge could be material to the Company’s results of operations. If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our broadcast operations will be impaired. Our television stations depend upon maintaining their broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC. Our broadcast licenses expired or will expire between 2006 and 2015 (although those for which the expiration date has passed have been extended by the filing of a license renewal application with the FCC) and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. The FCC has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full eight-year term. Although we expect to renew all our FCC licenses, we can give no assurance that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include qualifications that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failing to renew any of our stations’ main licenses could prevent us from operating the affected stations which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we renew our licenses with substantial qualifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of less than the full term), it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cybersecurity risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Cyber risks can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corruption of data or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents could include, but are not limited to, disrupted operations, misstated financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection costs and litigation. Certain members of management, directors and shareholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest. The Company and A. H. Belo have two common directors. Some members of management and directors of Belo and A. H. Belo own both Belo common stock and A. H. Belo common stock. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when Belo’s and A. H. Belo’s management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for each company. In addition, due to these existing relationships between the two companies, under current law media properties owned by A. H. Belo are considered attributable to Belo for purposes of FCC rules and regulations limiting ownership of multiple media properties in the same market, which could limit our ability to purchase stations in A. H. Belo’s newspaper markets, most notably Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 