Item 1A. Risk Factors Sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and management’s public comments and press releases from time to time may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting our operations, both known and unknown. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information as actual results may differ materially from those currently PAGE 8 Belo Corp. 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents anticipated. The following discussion identifies some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Decreases in advertising spending resulting from economic downturns, natural disasters, war, terrorism or other factors specific to the communities we serve can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our revenues are subject to seasonal, cyclical and other fluctuations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial majority of our revenues are generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns, so a recession or economic downturn could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The worldwide economy is currently undergoing unprecedented turmoil amid stock market volatility, tightening credit markets, inflation and deflation concerns, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, and increased liquidity concerns and business insolvencies. This turmoil and uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our advertisers and cause them to postpone their advertising decision-making or decrease their advertising spending, among other things, which could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also affect the volatility of our stock price. We cannot predict the timing, magnitude or duration of the current (or any future) severe global economic downturn or subsequent recovery. Our ability to generate advertising revenues is and will continue to be affected by financial market conditions, consumer confidence, advertiser challenges and changes in the national and sometimes international economy, as well as by regional economic conditions in each of the markets in which our stations operate. We have a significant concentration of assets in Texas, the Northwest and Arizona, which makes the economic condition of these regions of particular consequence to our financial condition and results of operations. The amount of advertisers’ budgets, which are affected by broad economic trends, affect the broadcast industry in general and the revenues of individual broadcast television stations in particular. Advertisers have purchased less advertising time from our stations in recent months due to the current decline in the national economy, as well as in regional economies. Our advertising revenues depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities that we serve. Changes in those factors could negatively affect advertising revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores and other businesses, and local economic conditions in general. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2008, 19.5 percent of our television advertising revenues were generated from the automotive industry. The economic challenges of the automotive industry will continue to affect its advertising spending which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonal, cyclical and other fluctuations that we expect to continue in future periods. In particular, we typically experience fluctuations in our revenues between even and odd numbered years. During elections for various state and national offices, which are primarily in even numbered years, advertising revenues tend to increase based on the demand for political advertising in our markets. Advertising revenues in odd numbered years tend to be less than in even numbered years due to the lack of demand for political advertising in our markets. Also, since NBC has exclusive rights to broadcast the Olympics through 2012, our NBC affiliate stations typically experience increased viewership and revenues during Olympic broadcasts, which also occur in even numbered years. Other seasonal and cyclical factors that affect our revenues and results of operations may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures and general economic factors. Fluctuations in revenues and results of operations may cause our stock price to be volatile. Our television businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and our ability to maintain market share and generate revenues depends on how effectively we compete with existing and new competition. Our television businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with newspapers and other broadcast and cable television stations, as well as with other media such as magazines, telephone and/or wireless companies, satellite television and the Internet. Some of our current and potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do and the ability to distribute more targeted advertising. Cable companies and others have developed national advertising networks in recent years that increase the competition for national advertising. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Advertising rates are set based upon a variety of factors, including a program’s popularity among the advertiser’s target audience, the number of advertisers competing for the available time, the size and demographic make-up Belo Corp. 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 9 Table of Contents of the market served and the availability of alternative advertising in the market. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, syndicated and local programming. Changes in market demographics, the entry of competitive stations into our markets, the transition to Local People Meters and other methods for measuring audiences, the introduction of competitive local news or other programming by cable, satellite, Internet, telephone or wireless providers, or the adoption of competitive offerings by existing and new providers could result in lower ratings and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our television businesses may not be able to compete effectively. New technologies could also adversely affect our television stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, the Internet, telephone company services, mobile devices, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences and expanded the numbers and types of distribution channels for advertisers to access. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, the Internet and other technological changes have increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire or develop desired programming. In addition, video compression techniques, now in use with direct broadcast satellites and potentially soon for cable and wireless cable, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming, resulting in more audience fractionalization. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these and other technological changes will have on the television industry or on the future results of our television businesses. The costs of television programming may increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Programming is a significant operating cost in our television businesses. We cannot be certain that we will not be exposed to future increases in programming costs. Should such an increase occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, television networks have been seeking arrangements with their affiliates to share the networks’ programming costs and to eliminate network compensation traditionally paid to broadcast affiliates. We cannot predict the nature or scope of any such potential compensation arrangements or the effect, if any, on our operations. Acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In addition, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to less than expected revenue which could result in programming write-offs. Additionally, in some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs. These write-offs increase station operating costs and decrease station earnings. The loss or modification of network affiliation agreements and changes by the national networks in their respective business models and practices could adversely affect our results of operations. The non-renewal, termination or material modification of our network affiliation agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have four stations affiliated with ABC, five stations affiliated with CBS, four stations affiliated with NBC, three stations affiliated with CW, two stations affiliated with My Network TV and one station affiliated with FOX. Each of the big-three networks (ABC, CBS, and NBC) generally provides our affiliated stations with 22 hours of prime time programming per week. Each of our affiliation agreements has a stated expiration date. Some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated may require, as a condition to the renewal of affiliation agreements, elimination of network affiliate compensation and, in some cases, cash payments to the network, and the acceptance of other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place under existing terms and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to affiliates on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation. If this occurs, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. PAGE 10 Belo Corp. 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents In recent years, the networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms in close proximity to network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those owned by the Company. These and other practices by the networks dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by local stations and could adversely affect our stations’ results of operations. If we are unable to secure or maintain carriage of our television stations’ signals over cable and/or direct broadcast satellite systems, our television stations may not be able to compete effectively. Pursuant to the FCC rules, local television stations must elect every three years to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the stations’ analog signals or (2) enter into retransmission consent negotiations for carriage. At present, Belo has retransmission consent agreements with the major cable operators in its markets and both satellite providers. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not renewed, or if our broadcast signals are distributed on less favorable terms than our competitors, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. Unless negotiated, cable and direct satellite operators are not required to carry our digital broadcast signals prior to the digital television transition. If we are unable to reach agreements for the carriage of those signals or if those signals are distributed on less favorable terms than our competitors, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. Our stock price can be volatile. Because of the various factors which affect our business and the uncertainty of future economic conditions, our revenues, results of operations and prospects fluctuate, which may cause our stock price to be volatile. The volumes of daily trades in our stock typically exceed the daily volumes experienced prior to the spin-off. In recent months, our stock price has traded at times below $2.00 per share. If our stock price were to trade at less than $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, the NYSE could seek to de-list our stock. The NYSE has currently suspended application of this rule until June 30, 2009. If the NYSE were to apply this rule, we may be required to take action, such as implementing a reverse stock split, to increase the trading price of our stock above $1.00 per share or seek to qualify our stock for trading on the NASDAQ system as an alternative to the NYSE listing. Because of overall market conditions, a number of companies, including some of our peers, are currently addressing similar matters. Regulatory changes may affect our strategy and increase competition and operating costs in our media businesses. As described in this Item 1–Business–FCC Regulation, our television businesses are subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. Changes in current regulations or the adoption of new laws and policies could affect our strategy, increase competition and our operating costs, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies govern the term, renewal and transfer of our television broadcasting licenses and limit certain concentrations of broadcasting control and ownership of multiple television stations. Relaxation of ownership restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to those with greater financial and other resources than we possess. Federal law also regulates indecency on broadcast television, political advertising rates and children’s programming. The television industry is transitioning from analog to digital transmissions and Congress recently moved the final date from February 17, 2009 to June 12, 2009, as the date by which broadcasters must cease analog program broadcasts and return their analog spectrum to the government. The delay in the transition will allow viewers more time to obtain more converter box coupons and will provide additional time to prepare for the digital switchover. The impact of the delay cannot be fully determined. At a minimum, viewer confusion will likely exist, requiring broadcasters and others to commit more resources to meeting audience needs. SHVERA establishes a statutory copyright license to enable direct broadcast satellite (DBS) companies to provide programming to local broadcasters and viewers. SHVERA expires at the end of 2009 and must be renewed or otherwise addressed to avoid significant disruption in the DBS business. If Congress passes legislation materially changing the existing regulatory scheme or adopts new legislation in place of existing law, the Company and other local broadcasters and viewers could be adversely affected. Furthermore, since SHVERA must be addressed in 2009, it is likely that other legislation, possibly unrelated to SHVERA, could be added to the required legislation which may or may not affect the Company in a material manner. Belo Corp. 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 11 Table of Contents Adverse results from pending or new litigation or governmental proceedings or investigations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation and governmental proceedings and investigations. Current matters include those described under Item 3–Legal Proceedings. Adverse determinations in any of these pending or future matters could require us to make monetary payments or result in other sanctions or findings that could adversely affect our businesses, including renewal of our FCC licenses, and financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our broadcast operations will be impaired. Our television businesses depend upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC. Our broadcast licenses expired or will expire between 2006 and 2015 (although those that have already expired have been extended by the filing of a license renewal application with the FCC) and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. The FCC has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term. Although we expect to renew all our FCC licenses, we cannot assure investors that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. If we fail to renew any of our licenses, it could prevent us from operating the affected stations. If we renew our licenses with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), it could have a material adverse effect on the affected station’s revenue generation potential. Belo may incur increased expenses or liabilities if some of the agreements with A. H. Belo are terminated or if A. H. Belo fails to perform. In connection with the spin-off, Belo entered into a services agreement with A. H. Belo. If the agreement is terminated, Belo may be required to obtain needed services from third parties. This could affect the efficiency of Belo’s operations in the near-term or be more expensive than the fees that Belo is currently required to pay under the A. H. Belo agreement. Also in connection with the spin-off, Belo and A. H. Belo agreed to share certain liabilities and expenses and to indemnify each other for certain expenses and liabilities attributable to one company or the other. For example, Belo agreed to retain complete sponsorship of The G. B. Dealey Retirement Pension Plan rather than divide the plan into two separate plans and in return, A. H. Belo agreed to reimburse Belo for 60 percent of all cash contributions made by Belo to the plan. The sharing ratio approximates the relative number of plan participants associated with each company. If A. H. Belo does not reimburse Belo promptly for its share of future plan contributions, Belo will be required to fund all of the contributions and seek reimbursement from A. H. Belo. In addition, A. H. Belo assumed Belo’s liabilities relating to certain ongoing agreements and other matters. If A. H. Belo does not satisfy these contingent liabilities when due, it is possible that Belo may be required to satisfy them. While Belo is not expecting to be called on to meet any of these contingent obligations, if it were to happen, it could adversely affect Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. Certain members of management, directors and shareholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest. The Company and A. H. Belo have several common directors. Most of the management and directors of Belo and A. H. Belo own both Belo common stock and A. H. Belo common stock. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when Belo’s and A. H. Belo’s management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for each company. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between Belo and A. H. Belo regarding the terms of the agreements governing the spin-off and the relationship between Belo and A. H. Belo thereafter. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise out of any commercial arrangements that Belo and A. H. Belo may enter into in the future. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our businesses effectively if we lose the services of any of our senior executive officers or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We depend on the efforts of our senior executive officers. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. We have not entered into employment agreements with our key management personnel and we do not have “key person” insurance for any of our senior executive officers or other key personnel. PAGE 12 Belo Corp. 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents We have a large amount of indebtedness. Access to our existing credit facility requires that we meet several covenants, which could be more challenging in a difficult operating environment. We currently use a portion of our operating cash flow for debt service. We may continue to borrow funds to finance capital expenditures, bond repurchases, acquisitions or to refinance debt, as well as for other purposes. Our level of indebtedness could, for example: • Require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, bond repurchases, dividends, acquisitions and other general corporate activities; • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • Expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rates on our credit facilities vary; and • Impair our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. In addition, our debt instruments require us to comply with certain covenants. At December 31, 2008, the maximum allowed leverage ratio was 5.75 and the minimum required interest coverage ratio was 2.25, as specified in our bank credit facility agreement. Effective February 26, 2009, the Company amended its credit facility agreement. Beginning February 26, 2009, through June 30, 2010, the maximum allowed leverage ratio is 6.25. The maximum allowed leverage ratio decreases by 50 basis points in the third quarter of 2010. Beginning December 31, 2010, and through the term of the agreement, the maximum allowed leverage ratio is 5.00. From January 1, 2009, through March 31, 2010, the minimum required interest coverage ratio is 2.25. Beginning April 1, 2010, the minimum required interest coverage ratio increases to 2.50. The failure to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing the terms of our indebtedness could be an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of all our indebtedness and payment obligations. See Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion on debt service. Changes in accounting standards can significantly impact reported earnings and operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying pronouncements and implementation guidelines for many aspects of our business, including those related to intangible assets, pensions, income taxes, share-based compensation, and broadcast rights, are complex and involve significant judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results. See Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2–Recently Issued Accounting Standards. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, and if we are required to write down intangible assets in future periods it would reduce net income. Approximately 77.5 percent of our total assets as of December 31, 2008, consisted of intangible assets, principally broadcast licenses and goodwill. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” requires, among other things, an annual impairment testing of broadcast licenses and goodwill. Additionally, the Company continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the economy and capital markets, require an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as of investments and long-lived assets. Recent trends in advertising revenues have negatively affected investors’ outlooks on the Company’s market value. If revenue trends worsen, this may be considered an indicator of impairment and could require the Company to perform an impairment analysis in advance of its annual impairment testing. In addition, any significant shortfall, now or in the future in advertising revenue could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets could result in an impairment, and a non-cash charge would be required. Any such charge could be material to the Company’s reported net earnings. See Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Critical Accounting Policies for further discussion of the goodwill and intangible asset assessment process and impairment charges recorded in 2008. Failure of the spin-off to qualify as a tax-free transaction could result in substantial liability. In connection with the spin-off, Belo received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to Belo and Belo shareholders for United States federal income tax purposes. Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the IRS, Belo Corp. 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 13 Table of Contents if the factual assumptions or representations made by Belo in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Belo may not be able to rely on the ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, a substantial corporate tax would be payable by Belo. However, A. H. Belo has agreed to indemnify Belo for certain tax liabilities under certain circumstances. Further, if the spin-off is not tax-free, each Belo shareholder generally would be taxed as if he or she had received a cash distribution equal to the fair market value of the shares of A. H. Belo common stock on the date of the spin-off. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 