Item 1A. Risk Factors Sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and management’s public comments from time to time may contain certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting our operations, both known and unknown. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information as actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated. The following discussion identifies some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Decreases in advertising spending, resulting from economic downturn, natural disasters, war, terrorism or other factors specific to the communities we serve, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our revenues are subject to seasonal, cyclical and other fluctuations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our revenues are generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns, so a recession or economic downturn could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our advertising revenues tend to decline in times of national or local crisis because our television stations broadcast more news coverage and sell less advertising time. Belo Corp. 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 9 Table of Contents Our advertising revenues depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities that we serve. Changes in those factors could negatively affect advertising revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores, and local economic conditions in general. In addition, a substantial portion of our television advertising revenues are generated from the automotive industry. Our revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonal, cyclical and other fluctuations that we expect to continue in future periods. In particular, we experience fluctuations in our revenues between even and odd numbered years. During elections for various state and national offices, which are primarily in even numbered years, advertising revenues fluctuate based on uncertain demand for political advertising in our markets. Also, since NBC has exclusive rights to broadcast the Olympics through 2012, our NBC affiliate stations typically experience increased viewership and revenues during Olympic broadcasts, which also occur in even numbered years. Other seasonal and cyclical factors that affect our revenues and results of operations may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures and general economic factors. Fluctuations in revenues and results of operations may cause our stock price to be volatile. Our television businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and our ability to maintain market share and generate revenues depends on how effectively we compete with existing and new competition. Our television businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with newspapers and other broadcast and cable television stations, as well as with other media such as magazines, satellite television and the Internet. Some of our current and potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. Our television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Advertising rates are set based upon a variety of factors, including a program’s popularity among the advertiser’s target audience, the number of advertisers competing for the available time, the size and demographic make-up of the market served and the availability of alternative advertising in the market. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, syndicated and local programming. Changes in market demographics, the entry of competitive stations into our markets, the introduction of competitive local news or other programming by cable, satellite or Internet providers, or the adoption of competitive formats by existing stations could result in lower ratings and cause an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations may be adversely affected by consolidation in the broadcast industry, especially if competing stations in our markets are acquired by competitors who may have a greater national scope and can offer a greater variety of national and syndicated programming for audiences and enhanced opportunities for advertisers to reach broader markets. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our television businesses may not be able to compete effectively. New technologies could also adversely affect our television stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, the Internet, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences. Over the past decade, cable television programming services, other emerging video distribution platforms and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, the Internet and other technological changes have increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire desired programming. In addition, video compression techniques, now in use with direct broadcast satellites and potentially soon for cable and wireless cable, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to highly targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these and other technological changes will have on the television industry or the future results of our television businesses. The costs of television programming may increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Programming is a significant operating cost in our television operations. We cannot be certain that we will not be exposed in the future to an increase in programming costs. Should such an increase occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, television networks have been seeking arrangements from their affiliates to share the networks’ programming costs and to eliminate network compensation traditionally paid to broadcast affiliates. We cannot predict the PAGE 10 Belo Corp. 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents nature or scope of any such potential compensation arrangements or the effect, if any, on our operations. Acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase station operating costs and decrease station earnings. The loss or modification of network affiliation agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. The non-renewal or termination of network affiliation agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have four stations affiliated with ABC, five stations affiliated with CBS, four stations affiliated with NBC, three affiliated with CW and one each affiliated with FOX and MNTV. Each of the big-three networks (ABC, CBS, and NBC) generally provides our affiliated stations with 22 hours of prime time programming per week. Each of our affiliation agreements has a stated expiration date. In addition, some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated have required us and other broadcast groups, as a condition to the renewal of affiliation agreements, to reduce or eliminate network affiliate compensation and, in some cases, to make cash payments to the network, and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to affiliates on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation. If this occurs, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. If we are unable to secure or maintain carriage of our television stations’ signals over cable and/or direct broadcast satellite systems, our television stations may not be able to compete effectively. Pursuant to the FCC rules, local television stations must elect every three years to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the stations’ analog signals or (2) enter into retransmission consent negotiations for carriage. At present, Belo has retransmission consent agreements with the majority of cable operators and both satellite providers. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not renewed, or if our broadcast signals are distributed on less favorable terms than our competitors, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. In addition, cable and direct satellite operators are not required to carry our digital broadcast signals. If we are unable to reach agreements for the carriage of those signals or if those signals are distributed on less favorable terms than our competitors, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. Regulatory changes may affect our strategy and increase competition and operating costs in our media businesses. As described in this Item 1–Business–FCC Regulation, our television business is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. Changes in current regulations or the adoption of new laws and policies could affect our strategy, increase competition and our operating costs, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies govern the term, renewal and transfer of our television broadcasting licenses and limit certain concentrations of broadcasting control and cross-ownerships of newspapers and television stations. Relaxation of ownership restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to those with greater financial and other resources than we possess. Federal law also regulates indecency on broadcast television, political advertising rates and children’s programming. The television industry is transitioning from analog to digital transmissions and Congress has set February 17, 2009, as the date by which broadcasters must cease analog broadcasts and return their analog spectrum to the government. Adverse results from pending or new litigation or governmental proceedings or investigations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation and governmental proceedings and investigations. Current matters include those described under Item 3–Legal Proceedings. Adverse determinations in any of these pending or future matters could require us to make monetary payments or result in other sanctions or findings that could adversely affect our businesses, including renewal of our FCC licenses, and financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our broadcast operations will be impaired. Our television business depends upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC. Our broadcast licenses expired or will expire between 2006 and 2015 (although those that have already expired have been extended by the filing of a license renewal application with the FCC) and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. The FCC has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term. Although we expect to renew all our FCC licenses, we cannot assure investors that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. If we fail to renew any of our licenses, it could prevent us from operating the affected stations. Belo Corp. 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 11 Table of Contents If we renew our licenses with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), it could have a material adverse effect on the affected station’s revenue generation potential. Belo may incur increased expenses if the services agreement with A. H. Belo is terminated. In connection with the distribution, Belo entered into a services agreement with A. H. Belo. This agreement provides that Belo and A. H. Belo will furnish each other services in such areas as information technology, interactive media, employee benefits administration, claims administration and reporting, tax, legal, payroll, internal audit and other areas where Belo and A. H. Belo may need assistance and support following the distribution. Depending on the particular service being provided, the agreement will extend for up to two years after the distribution, but may be terminated earlier under certain circumstances, including a default. In such case, if the agreement is terminated, Belo may be required to obtain certain services from a third party. This could affect the efficiency of certain operations in the near-term or be more expensive than the compensation that Belo is required to pay under the services agreement. Failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction could result in substantial liability. Belo has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to the effect that, among other things, the distribution (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to Belo and Belo shareholders for United States federal income tax purposes under section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Belo may not be able to rely on the ruling. Moreover, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution of shares satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the Code. Rather, the private letter ruling is based upon representations by Belo that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. In connection with the distribution, Belo received an opinion from Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell LLP, counsel to Belo, to the effect that, with respect to the requirements referred to above on which the IRS will not rule, those requirements have been met. The opinion assumes the effectiveness of the private letter ruling as to matters covered by the ruling. The opinion is based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to facts made by Belo and A. H. Belo which, if untrue or incomplete in any material respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. If the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, a substantial corporate tax would be payable by Belo, measured by the difference between (1) the aggregate fair market value of the shares of A. H. Belo common stock on the date of the distribution and (2) Belo’s adjusted tax basis in the shares of A. H. Belo common stock on the date of the distribution. The corporate level tax would be payable by Belo. However, A. H. Belo has agreed to indemnify Belo for certain tax liabilities under certain circumstances. In addition, under the applicable Treasury regulations, each member of Belo’s consolidated group at the time of the distribution (including A. H. Belo) is severally liable for such tax liability. Further, if the distribution is not tax-free, each Belo shareholder generally would be taxed as if he or she had received a cash distribution equal to the fair market value of the shares of A. H. Belo common stock on the date of the distribution. Even if the distribution otherwise qualifies as tax-free, Belo nevertheless could incur a substantial corporate tax liability under section 355(e) of the Code if 50 percent or more of the voting power or value of A. H. Belo stock or the stock of Belo were to be acquired as part of a “plan (or a series of related transactions)” that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of the stock of Belo or of A. H. Belo’s stock that occur within two years before or after the distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although Belo may be able to rebut that presumption. If such an acquisition of the stock of Belo or of A. H. Belo’s stock triggers the application of section 355(e), Belo would recognize taxable gain as described above, but the distribution would generally remain tax-free to the Belo shareholders. Even if, as expected, the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the Code, Belo (but not its shareholders) will recognize for tax purposes approximately $51,900 of previously deferred intercompany non-cash gains in connection with the distribution, resulting in a federal income tax obligation of approximately $18,000 and a state tax obligation that is not currently estimable and which is not expected to be material. If such gains are adjusted in the future, then Belo and A. H. Belo shall be responsible for paying any additional tax associated with any increase in such gains in the ratio of one-third and two-thirds, respectively. The combined post-distribution value of Belo and A. H. Belo shares may not equal or exceed the pre-distribution value of Belo shares. After the distribution, Belo common stock will continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol BLC. The shares of A. H. Belo Series A common stock are now listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol AHC. We cannot assure you that the combined trading prices of Belo common stock and A. H. Belo common stock after the distribution, as adjusted for any changes in the combined capitalization of both companies, will be equal to or greater than the trading price of Belo PAGE 12 Belo Corp. 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents common stock prior to the distribution. Until the market has fully evaluated the business of Belo without A. H. Belo’s business, the price at which Belo common stock trades may fluctuate significantly. Similarly, until the market has fully evaluated A. H. Belo’s business, the price at which A. H. Belo common stock trades may fluctuate significantly. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our businesses effectively if we lose the services of any of our senior executive officers or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We depend on the efforts of our senior executive officers. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. We have not entered into employment agreements with our key management personnel and we do not have “key person” insurance for any of our senior executive officers or other key personnel. We have a large amount of indebtedness. We currently use a portion of our operating cash flow for debt service. At December 31, 2007, we had debt outstanding of $1,168,140. We may continue to borrow funds to finance capital expenditures, share repurchases, acquisitions or to refinance debt, as well as for other purposes. Our level of indebtedness could, for example: • Require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other general corporate activities; • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • Expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rates on our credit facilities vary; and • Impair our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our businesses or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. In addition, our debt instruments require us to comply with covenants. The failure to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing the terms of our indebtedness could be an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our indebtedness and payment obligations. See Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion on debt service. Changes in accounting standards can significantly impact reported earnings and operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying pronouncements and implementation guidelines for many aspects of our business, including those related to intangible assets, pensions, income taxes, share-based compensation, and broadcast rights, are complex and involve significant judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results. See Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2–Recently Issued Accounting Standards. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, and if we are required to write down intangible assets in future periods it would reduce net income. Approximately $2,205,886, or 69 percent, of our total assets as of December 31, 2007, consisted of intangible assets, principally broadcast licenses and goodwill. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” requires, among other things, an annual impairment testing of broadcast licenses and goodwill. Based on assessments performed for the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company record a non-cash impairment loss related to goodwill of $366,561, of which $242,794 related to The Providence Journal, $101,630 related to The Press-Enterprise in Riverside, California, and $22,137 related to WHAS-TV in Louisville, Kentucky. If in the future the estimated fair value of intangible assets of our television stations decreases further, we could be required to record additional impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Critical Accounting Policies for further discussion of the goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2007. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Belo Corp. 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 13 Table of Contents 