Item 1A. Risk Factors. Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the risk factors described below. Any of these factors, or others, many of which are beyond our control, could negatively affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow. Our operating results and revenue are subject to fluctuations caused by many economic factors associated with our industry and the markets for our products which, in turn, may individually and collectively affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow in adverse and unpredictable ways. Quarterly and annual results of operations are affected by a number of factors, associated with our industry and the markets for our products, including those listed below, which in turn could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow in the future. • Timing and impact of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms and viruses); • The rate of adoption of new product technologies and releases of new operating systems; • Demand for products and services; • Length of sales cycle; • Customer difficulty in implementation of our products; 14 Table of Contents • Magnitude of price and product and/or services competition; • Introduction of new hardware; • General economic conditions in countries in which customers do a substantial amount of business; • Changes in customer budgets for hardware, software and services; • Ability to develop and introduce new or enhanced versions of our products; • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • Ability to control costs; • The number and terms and conditions of licensing transactions; • Reorganizations of the sales and technical services forces; • The results of litigation, including the government and internal investigations; and • Ability to retain and attract qualified personnel. Any of the foregoing factors, among others, may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high, or cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate. As a consequence, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected. For a discussion of certain factors that could affect our cash flow in the future, for example, please see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sources and Uses of Cash.” The timing of orders from customers and channel partners may cause fluctuations in some of our key financial metrics which may impact our quarterly financial results and stock price. Historically, the vast majority of our license agreements are executed in the last week of a quarter. Any failure or delay in executing new or renewed license agreements in a given quarter could cause fluctuations in some of our key financial metrics (i.e. billings or cash flow), which may have a material adverse effect on our quarterly financial results. The uneven sales pattern also makes it difficult to predict future billings and cash flow for each period and, accordingly, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. If we do not achieve our forecasted results for a particular period, our stock price could decline significantly. Given the global nature of our business, economic or political events beyond our control can affect our business in unpredictable ways. International revenue has historically represented a significant percentage of our total worldwide revenue. Continued success in selling our products outside the United States will depend on a variety of market and business factors, including: • Reorganizations of the sales and technical services workforce; • Fluctuations in foreign exchange currency rates; • Staffing key managerial positions; • The ability to successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets; • General economic conditions in foreign countries; • Political stability; and • Trade restrictions such as tariffs, duties or other controls affecting foreign operations. Any of the foregoing factors, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 15 Table of Contents We have entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York (USAO) and a Final Consent Judgment with the SEC (the Consent Judgment) and if we violate either agreement we may be subject to, among other things, criminal prosecution or civil penalties which could adversely affect our credit ratings, stock price, ability to attract or retain employees and, therefore, our sales, revenue and client base. Our agreements with the USAO and the SEC resolve their investigations into certain of our past accounting practices, including our revenue recognition policies and procedures, and obstruction of their investigations, provided we comply with certain continuing requirements under these agreements. We describe some of these requirements below. (For more information about our agreements with the USAO and the SEC, see Note 7, “Commitments and Contingencies”, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as well as our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 22, 2004.) The DPA If it is determined that we: deliberately gave false, incomplete or misleading information pursuant to the DPA; have committed any federal crimes subsequent to the DPA; or otherwise knowingly, intentionally and materially violated any provision of the DPA, we will be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which the USAO has knowledge. Any such prosecution may be based on information we have provided to the USAO, the SEC and other governmental agencies in connection with our cooperation under the DPA. This would include information provided because of our entry into the DPA that otherwise may not have been available to the USAO or may otherwise have been subject to privilege. Our continued cooperation with the USAO, the SEC and the Independent Examiner (see below) pursuant to the DPA and Consent Judgment may lead to the discovery of additional information regarding the conduct of the Company, including the conduct of members of former management in prior periods. We cannot predict the impact, if any, of any such information on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The Consent Judgment Pursuant to the Consent Judgment, we are enjoined from violating a number of provisions of the federal securities laws. Any further violation of these laws could result in civil remedies, including sanctions, fines and penalties, which may be far more severe than if the violation had occurred without the Consent Judgment being in place. Additionally, if we breach the terms of the Consent Judgment, the SEC may petition the Court to vacate the Consent Judgment and restore the SEC’s original action to the active docket for all purposes. If the action were restored, the SEC could use information in the action that we have provided to the USAO, the SEC and other governmental agencies in connection with our cooperation under the Consent Judgment. This would include information provided because of our entry into the Consent Judgment that otherwise may not have been available to the SEC or may otherwise have been subject to privilege. General Under both the DPA and the Consent Judgment, we are obligated to undertake a number of internal reforms including but not limited to: adding new management and independent directors; establishing a Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors and an executive disclosure committee; establishing new comprehensive records management policies; taking steps to implement best practices regarding recognition of software license revenue; establishing a comprehensive compliance and ethics program; reorganizing our Finance and Internal Audit Departments; establishing a plan to improve communication with government agencies engaged in inquiries or investigations relating to the Company; enhancing our hotline for employees to report potential violations of the law or other misconduct; and agreeing to the appointment of an Independent Examiner, who is serving a term of 18 months (subject to extension by the USAO and the SEC) and is examining our practices and began issuing reports on such practices to the USAO, the SEC and our Board of Directors beginning in September 2005 and has and will continue to do so quarterly thereafter (for more information about the Independent Examiner and the potential extension of this term, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Significant Business Events”). We have taken many steps to carry out these internal reforms (for more information about our reforms, see Note 7, “Commitments and Contingencies”, in the Notes to the Consolidated 16 Table of Contents Financial Statements). In the short-term, we cannot gauge what impact, if any, the adoption of these reforms (including the reports of the Independent Examiner) may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow or any diversion of management attention and employee resources from core business functions or opportunities that may result. If it were determined that we breached the terms of the DPA or the Consent Judgment, we cannot predict the scope, timing or outcome of the actions that would be taken by the USAO or the SEC. These actions could include the institution of administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings, the imposition of fines and penalties, which may be significant, suspensions or debarments from government product and/or services contracts, and other remedies and sanctions, any of which could lead to an adverse impact on our credit ratings and ability to obtain financing, an adverse impact on our stock price, loss of additional senior management, the inability to attract or retain key employees and the loss of customers. In addition, our employees could potentially commit illegal acts which, under the law, may be ascribed to us under certain circumstances. We cannot predict what impact, if any, these matters may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Moreover, under both the DPA and the Consent Judgment, we are obligated to cooperate with the government in its ongoing investigations of past conduct. While we do not anticipate any further material adjustments to our financial statements for completed periods arising from those investigations, the processes described above have not been fully completed and we may be required to take additional remedial measures. Changes to compensation of our sales organization could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. We may update our compensation plans for the sales organization from time to time in order to align the sales force with the Company’s economic interests. Under the terms of the sales compensation agreements, management seeks to retain broad discretion to change or modify various aspects of the plan such as quotas or territory assignments. The ability to exercise this discretion is governed by the laws of numerous countries and states within the U.S. in which CA operates. Where CA does exercise such discretion, the changes may lead to outcomes that are not anticipated or intended and may impact our cost of doing business and/or employee morale, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. We modified our commission plans for fiscal year 2006 which led to substantial unforeseen expenses. The commission plans for fiscal year 2007, while revised, continue to be reviewed and may be subject to risks similar to those identified above. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for how changes made to the commission plan for fiscal year 2006 impacted results. Refer to Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures”, for additional information relating to the Company’s identification of a material weakness associated with sales commissions for fiscal year 2006. Failure to expand our channel partner programs related to the sale of CA solutions may result in lost sales opportunities, increases in expenses and weakening in our competitive position. We sell CA solutions through system integrators and value-added resellers in channel partner programs that require training and expertise to sell these solutions, and global penetration to grow these aspects of our business. The failure to expand these channel partner programs and penetrate these markets may adversely impact our success with channel partners, resulting in lost sales opportunities and an increase in expenses, as well as weaken our competitive position. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, including the successful implementation of our enterprise resource planning software from SAP AG, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations requires effective planning and management systems and processes. We will need to continue to improve existing and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. As a result, we have licensed enterprise resource planning (ERP) software from SAP AG and have begun a process to expand and upgrade our operational and financial systems. Phase one of the implementation was completed in April 2006 and 17 Table of Contents included operating activities in North America and worldwide human resources. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, our new or enhanced systems, procedures or internal controls, could adversely affect our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and records, and report financial and management information, including the filing of our quarterly or annual reports with the SEC, on a timely and accurate basis. As a result of the conversion from prior systems and processes, data integrity problems may be discovered that if not corrected could impact our business or financial results. In addition, as we add functionality to the ERP software and complete implementations in other geographic regions, new issues could arise that we have not foreseen. Such issues could adversely affect our ability to do, among other things, the following in a timely manner: provide quotes; take customer orders; ship products; provide services and support to our customers; bill and track our customers; fulfill contractual obligations; and otherwise run our business. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources, impact our ability to manage our business and negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and stock price. We may encounter difficulties in successfully integrating companies and products that we have acquired or may acquire into our existing business and, therefore, such failed integration may adversely affect our infrastructure, market presence, results of operations and stock price. We have in the past and expect in the future to acquire complementary companies, products, services and technologies. The risks we may encounter include: we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further improve our financial and strategic position as planned; we may have difficulty integrating the operations, personnel and commission plans of the acquired business; we may have difficulty forecasting or reporting results subsequent to acquisitions; we may have difficulty retaining the technical skills needed to provide services on the acquired products; we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; we may have product liability, customer liability or intellectual property liability associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products; our ongoing business may be disrupted by transition or integration issues; our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from governmental authorities under applicable competition and antitrust laws; we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; our relationships with current and new employees, customers and distributors could be impaired; the acquisition may result in increased litigation risk, including litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the target company’s product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices, internal control deficiencies, including material weaknesses, product architecture, legal contingencies and other matters. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a large acquisition or number of acquisitions. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options, to pay for acquisitions, existing stockholders’ interests may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. We are subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing, and we expect to face increased competition in the future, which could hinder our ability to attract and retain employees and diminish demand for our products and, therefore, reduce our sales, revenue and market presence. The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and we expect product and service offerings and pricing competition to increase. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of customers in any particular market niche, larger technical staffs, established relationships with hardware vendors and/or greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Competitors for our various products include large technology companies. We also face competition from numerous smaller companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software industry and shareware authors that may develop competing products. In addition, new companies enter the market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that compete with those offered by us. Moreover, many customers historically have developed their own products that compete with those offered by us. The competition may affect our ability to attract and retain the technical skills needed to provide services to our customers, forcing us to become more reliant on delivery of services through third parties. This, in turn, could increase operating costs and decrease our revenue, profitability and cash flow. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, competition from any of these sources can result in price reductions or displacement of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our competitors include large vendors of hardware or operating system software. The widespread inclusion of products that perform the same or similar functions as our products bundled within computer hardware or other companies’ software products could reduce the perceived need for our products and services, or render our products obsolete and unmarketable. Furthermore, even if these incorporated products are inferior or more limited than our products, customers may elect to accept the incorporated products rather than purchase our products. In addition, the software industry is currently undergoing consolidation as software companies seek to offer more extensive suites and broader arrays of software products, as well as integrated software and hardware solutions. This consolidation may negatively impact our competitive position, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Refer to Item 1, “Business — (c) Narrative Description of the Business — Competition”, for additional information. Failure to adapt to technological change in a timely manner could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. If we fail to keep pace with technological change in our industry, such failure would have an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. We operate in a highly competitive industry characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. During the past several years, many new technological advancements and competing products entered the marketplace. The distributed systems and application management markets in which we operate are far more crowded and competitive than our traditional mainframe systems management markets. Our ability to compete effectively and our growth prospects depend upon many factors, including the success of our existing distributed systems products, the timely introduction and success of future software products, and the ability of our products to interoperate and perform well with existing and future leading databases and other platforms supported by our products. We have experienced long development cycles and product delays in the past, particularly with some of our distributed systems products, and expect to have delays in the future. In addition, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant research and development costs, as we introduce new products. If there are delays in new product introductions or less-than-anticipated market acceptance of these new products, we will have invested substantial resources without realizing adequate revenues in return, and our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. If our products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments we could lose customers and the demand for our products and services could decrease, which would negatively impact sales and revenue. IBM, HP, Sun Microsystems, EMC and Microsoft are the largest suppliers of systems and computing software and, in most cases, are the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of our customers. Historically, these operating system developers have modified or introduced new operating systems, systems software and computer hardware. Such new products could, in the future, incorporate features that perform functions currently performed by our products, or could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies’ hardware or software. Although we have to date been able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and system software developers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to such changes or customer decisions to forego the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality contained either in the hardware or operating system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Certain software that we use in daily operations is licensed from third parties and thus may not be available to us in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production and, therefore, could adversely affect our revenues and profits. Some of our products contain software licensed from third parties. Some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our products to remain competitive. The loss of these licenses or the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable terms could delay development of 19 Table of Contents future products or the enhancement of existing products. We may also choose to pay a premium price for such a license in certain circumstances where continuity of the product would outweigh the premium cost of the license. We do not consider the revenue from products using software licensed from third parties to be material. However, there can be no assurance that, at a given point of time, any of the above will not have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Certain software we use is from open source code sources which under certain circumstances may lead to increased costs and, therefore, decreased cash flow. Some of our products contain software from open source code sources. The use of such open source code may subject us to certain conditions, including the obligation to offer our products that use open source code for no cost. We monitor our use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. However, the use of such open source code may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions so that we are required to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts. We believe that the use of such open source code will not have a significant impact on our operations and that our products will be viable after any remediation efforts. However, there can be no assurance that future conditions involving such open source code will not have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Discovery of errors in our software could adversely affect our revenues and earnings and subject us to product liability claims, which may be costly and time consuming. The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial shipments. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be adversely affected. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher development costs if our software contains undetected errors or if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. Significant technical challenges also arise with our products because our customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third-party software applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk further because in the event of a system-wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which product is at fault; thus, we may be harmed by the failure of another supplier’s products. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience: • Loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share; • Loss of customers, including the inability to do repeat business with existing key customers; • Damage to our reputation; • Failure to achieve market acceptance; • Diversion of development resources; • Increased service and warranty costs; • Legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or not successful, increase costs and distract our management; • Increased insurance costs; and • Failure to successfully complete service engagements for product installations and implementations. In addition, a product liability claim, whether or not successful, could be time-consuming and costly and thus could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 20 Table of Contents Our credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further which would require us to pay additional interest under our credit agreement and could adversely affect our ability to borrow in the future. Subsequent to the announcement of our delayed filing of the Form 10-K beyond its extended due date of June 29, 2006 and our $2 billion stock buy back program, Moody’s Investor Service (Moody’s) placed the Ba1 ratings of our senior unsecured notes under review for possible downgrade, Standard and Poor’s (S&P) lowered its ratings to BB and placed our senior unsecured notes on CreditWatch with negative implications, and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) downgraded our rating to BB+ with negative outlook. Moody’s, S&P, Fitch or any other credit rating agency may further downgrade or take other negative action with respect to our credit ratings in the future. If our credit ratings are further downgraded or other negative action is taken, we would be required to, among other things, pay additional interest under our credit agreement, if it is utilized. Any downgrades could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. We have a significant amount of debt and failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. As of March 31, 2006, we had approximately $1.81 billion of debt outstanding, consisting of unsecured fixed-rate senior note obligations and convertible senior notes. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations and Commitments”, for the payment schedule of our long-term debt obligations, inclusive of interest. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights would weaken our competitive position. Our future success is highly dependent upon our proprietary technology, including our software. Failure to protect such technology could lead to our loss of valuable assets and competitive advantage. We protect our proprietary information through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use or copying of our proprietary information is difficult. Unauthorized use or copying occurs from time to time and litigation to enforce intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and diversion of resources. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not afford the same degree of protection to our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. For example, we rely on “shrink-wrap” or “click-on” licenses which may be unenforceable in whole or in part in some jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, patents we have obtained may be circumvented, challenged, invalidated or designed around by other companies. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property for these or other reasons our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected. Refer to “Item 1, Business — (c) Narrative Description of the Business — Technological Expertise”, for additional information. We may become dependent upon large transactions and the failure to close such transactions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. We have historically been dependent upon large-dollar enterprise transactions with individual customers. As a result of the flexibility afforded by our business model, we anticipate that there will be fewer of these transactions in the future. There can be no assurances, however, that we will not be reliant on large-dollar enterprise transactions in the future, and the failure to close such transactions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 21 Table of Contents Our customers’ data centers and IT environments may be subject to hacking or other breaches, harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our products. If an actual or perceived breach of our customers’ network security occurs, allowing access to our customers’ data centers or other parts of their IT environments, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and diversion of our resources from development efforts. Additionally, these efforts could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our product licensing, or modification of our software, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers, adversely affecting our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our software products, data centers and IT environments may be subject to hacking or other breaches, harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our products. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products. Similarly, experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our data centers and IT environments and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. If these intentionally disruptive efforts are successful, our activities could be adversely affected, our reputation and future sales could be harmed and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected. General economic conditions may lead our customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our products are designed to improve the productivity and efficiency of our customers’ information processing resources. However, a general slowdown in the world economy or a particular region, particularly with respect to discretionary spending for software, could cause customers to delay or forgo decisions to license new products, to upgrade their existing environments or to acquire services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The use of third-party microcode could negatively impact our product development. We anticipate ongoing use of microcode or firmware provided by hardware manufacturers. Microcode and firmware are essentially software programs embedded in hardware and are, therefore, less flexible than other types of software. We believe that such continued use will not have a significant impact on our operations and that our products will remain compatible with any changes to such code. However, there can be no assurance that future technological developments involving such microcode will not have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. We may lose access to third-party operating systems which would adversely affect future product development. In the past, certain of our licensees using proprietary operating systems were furnished with “source code”, which makes the operating system understandable to programmers; “object code”, which directly controls the hardware; and other technical documentation. Since the availability of source code facilitated the development of systems and applications software, which must interface with the operating systems, independent software vendors, such as us, were able to develop and market compatible software. Microsoft, IBM and other vendors have a policy of restricting the use or availability of the source code for some of their operating systems. To date, this policy has not had a material effect on us. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Although we do not expect that such restrictions will have this adverse effect, there 22 Table of Contents can be no assurances that such restrictions or other restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The markets for some or all of our key product areas may not grow. Our products are aligned by software business unit. Our business units consist of Enterprise Systems Management, Security Management, Storage Management, Business Service Optimization and the CA Products Group — which encompass solutions from a number of CA brands that fall outside of our core areas of systems and security management. Some or all of these areas may not grow, may decline in growth, or customers may decline or forgo use of products in some or all of these product areas. This is particularly true in newly emerging areas. A decline in sales in these product areas could result in decreased demand for our products and services, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Third parties could claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights which could result in significant litigation expense or settlement with unfavorable terms that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. From time to time we receive notices from third parties claiming infringement of various forms of their intellectual property. Investigation of these claims, whether with or without merit, can be expensive and could affect development, marketing or shipment of our products. As the number of software patents issued increases, it is likely that additional claims, with or without merit, will be asserted. Defending against such claims is time-consuming and could result in significant litigation expense or settlement with unfavorable terms that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in translation losses. Most of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in local currencies. Given the relatively long sales cycle that is typical for many of our products, foreign currency fluctuations could result in substantial changes due to the foreign currency impact upon translation of these transactions into U.S. dollars. Additionally, fluctuations of the exchange rates of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar can affect our revenue within those markets, all of which may adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our stock price is subject to significant fluctuations. Our stock price is subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, the gain or loss of significant license agreements, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, announcements related to accounting issues, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in domestic and international economic and business conditions, general conditions in the software and computer industries and other events or factors. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries that are similar or related to those in which we operate and that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations have in the past adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which in turn could affect the value of our stock-based compensation and our ability to retain and attract key employees. Any failure by us to execute our restructuring plan successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected. In July 2005, we announced a restructuring plan to increase efficiency and productivity and to more closely align our investments with strategic growth opportunities. The plan includes a workforce reduction of approximately five percent or 800 positions worldwide as well as facility and procurement rationalization. We may have further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, changes in restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, decreases in employee morale and the failure to 23 Table of Contents meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business. Taxation of extraterritorial income could adversely affect our results. In August 2001, a World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute panel determined that the tax provisions of the FSC Repeal and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion Act of 2000 (ETI) constitute an export subsidy prohibited by the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. The U.S. government appealed the panel’s decision and lost its appeal. On March 1, 2004, the European Union (EU) began imposing retaliatory tariffs on a specified list of U.S. — source goods. In order to comply with international trade rules, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) repealed the current tax treatment for ETI. The Act replaces the ETI provisions with a domestic manufacturing deduction and includes transition provisions for the ETI phase-out. We are reviewing the provisions of the Act and the impact on our effective tax rate. The WTO challenged the Act, claiming that the transition relief and grandfathering provisions of the Act amounted to a continuation of the ETI export subsidy. On February 13, 2006, the Appellate Body of the WTO agreed that the Act violated international free-trade rules. As a result, the EU announced that by May 14, 2006 it would reinstate retaliatory tariffs that had been previously lifted. In order to comply with international free-trade rules, The Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005 (TIPRA) repealed certain provisions of the Act found to be objectionable by the EU. In response to TIPRA, the EU announced it would withdraw the retaliatory sanctions that were to have resumed May 16, 2006. Other potential tax liabilities may adversely affect our results. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which that determination is made could result. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we determined that we did not properly calculate certain tax charges and accordingly had to adjust such charges. Refer to Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures”, for additional information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 