ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Current and potential stockholders should consider carefully the risk factors described below. Any of these factors, or others, many of which are beyond our control, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations caused by many factors associated with our industry and the markets for our products which, in turn, may individually and collectively affect our revenue, profitability and cash flow in adverse and unpredictable ways. Quarterly and annual results of operations are affected by a number of factors associated with our industry and the markets for our products, including those listed below, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow in the future. • The rate of adoption of new product technologies and demand for products and services; • Length of our sales cycle to our customers; • Customer difficulty in implementation of our products; • Magnitude of price and product or services competition; • Introduction of new hardware by manufacturers of computer hardware systems used by most of our customers; • General economic conditions in countries and industries in which we do a substantial amount of business; • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • Ability to control costs; • The number and terms and conditions of licensing transactions; • Workforce reorganizations in various locations around the world, including reorganizations of sales, technical services, finance, human resources and facilities functions; 9 Table of Contents • Timing and impact of “threat” outbreaks (e.g., computer software worms and viruses); • The results of litigation; • Ability to retain and attract qualified personnel; and • The markets for some or all of our products may not grow as we expect. Any of the foregoing factors, among others, may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high, or cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate. As a consequence, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. For a discussion of certain factors that could affect our cash flow in the future, for example, please see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sources and Uses of Cash.” The timing of orders from customers and channel partners may cause fluctuations in some of our key financial metrics which may affect our quarterly financial results and stock price. Historically, a substantial portion of our license agreements are executed in the last month of a quarter. Any failure or delay in executing new or renewed license agreements in a given quarter could cause fluctuations in some of our key financial metrics (e.g., new deferred subscription value or cash flow), which could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly financial results. Our historically uneven sales pattern also makes it difficult to predict future new deferred subscription value and cash flow for each period and, accordingly, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. If we do not achieve our forecasted results for a particular period, our stock price could decline significantly. Given the global nature of our business, economic factors or political events beyond our control and other business risks associated with foreign operations can affect our business in unpredictable ways. International revenue has historically represented a significant percentage of our total worldwide revenue. Continued success in selling and developing our products outside the United States will depend on a variety of factors, including: • Workforce reorganizations in various locations around the world, including reorganizations of sales, technical services, finance, human resources and facilities functions; • Fluctuations in foreign exchange currency rates; • Staffing key managerial positions; • The ability to successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets; • More restrictive employment regulation; • General economic conditions; • Political instability; • Trade restrictions such as tariffs, duties, taxes or other controls; • International intellectual property laws, which may be more restrictive or may offer lower levels of protection; and • Compliance with differing and changing local laws and regulations in multiple international locations as well as compliance with United States law and regulations where applicable in these international locations. Any of the foregoing factors, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Changes to the compensation of our sales organization could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. We may change our compensation plans for the sales organization from time to time in order to align the sales force with the Company’s economic interests. Under the terms of CA’s Incentive Compensation Plan (Incentive Compensation Plan), management retains broad discretion to change various aspects of the Incentive Compensation Plan such as sales quotas or territory assignments, to ensure that the plan is aligned with CA’s overall business objectives. However, the 10 Table of Contents laws of many of the countries and states in which CA operates impose limitations on the amount of discretion a company’s management may exercise on compensation matters such as commissions. The Incentive Compensation Plan itself, or changes made by management where CA exercises discretion to change the Incentive Compensation Plan, may lead to outcomes that are not anticipated or intended and may impact our cost of doing business, employee morale, and/or other performance metrics, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Changes to our sales force coverage model and organization could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. In the past, we made substantial changes to our sales organization and sales coverage model. See Item 1, “Business — (c) Description of the Business — Sales and Marketing” for more information. The purpose of these changes was to enable the Company to increase its sales of new products and solutions to new and existing customers while protecting the Company’s installed base. In addition, these changes may require our sales force to acquire new skills and knowledge and to assume different roles. These changes are ongoing in fiscal 2009 as we continue to refine our go-to-market strategy in selected geographic markets. Any of these changes may lead to outcomes that are not anticipated or intended and may adversely affect the performance of our sales force and thus our cost of doing business, employee morale, or other performance metrics, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Failure to expand our channel partner programs related to the sale of CA solutions may result in lost sales opportunities, increases in expenses and weakening in our competitive position. We sell CA solutions through systems integrators and value-added resellers in channel partner programs that require training and expertise to sell these solutions, and global penetration to grow these aspects of our business. The failure to expand these channel partner programs and penetrate these markets could materially adversely affect our success with channel partners, resulting in lost sales opportunities and an increase in expenses, as well as weaken our competitive position. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, including the successful implementation of our enterprise resource planning software, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations requires effective planning and management systems and processes. We need to continue to improve existing and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. As a result, we have licensed enterprise resource planning software and are in the process of expanding and upgrading our operational and financial systems. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, our new or enhanced systems, procedures or internal controls, could adversely affect our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and records, and report financial and management information, including the filing of our quarterly or annual reports with the SEC, on a timely and accurate basis. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources, adversely affect our ability to manage our business and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Refer to Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” for further information. We may encounter difficulties in successfully integrating companies and products that we have acquired or may acquire into our existing business and, therefore, such failed integration could materially adversely affect our infrastructure, market presence, or results of operations. We have in the past and expect in the future to acquire complementary companies, products, services and technologies (including through mergers, asset acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships, strategic alliances, and equity investments). The risks we may encounter include: • We may find that the acquired company or assets do not further improve our financial and strategic position as planned; 11 Table of Contents • We may have difficulty integrating the operations, facilities, personnel and commission plans of the acquired business; • We may have difficulty forecasting or reporting results subsequent to acquisitions; • We may have difficulty retaining the technical skills needed to provide services on the acquired products; • We may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; • We may have product liability, customer liability or intellectual property liability associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products; • Our ongoing business may be disrupted by transition or integration issues; our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; • We may be unable to obtain timely approvals from governmental authorities under applicable competition and antitrust laws; • We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • Our relationships with current and new employees, customers and distributors could be impaired; the acquisition may result in increased litigation risk, including litigation from terminated employees or third parties; • We may have difficulty with determinations related to accounting matters, including those that require a high degree of judgment or complex estimation processes, including valuation and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income tax matters; and • Our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the target company’s product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices, internal control deficiencies, including material weaknesses, product architecture, legal contingencies and other matters. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow, particularly in the case of a large acquisition or number of acquisitions. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options, to pay for acquisitions or to retain employees, existing stockholders’ interests may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. We are subject to intense competition in product and service offerings and pricing, and we expect to face increased competition in the future, which could diminish demand for our products and, therefore, reduce our sales, revenue and market presence. The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and we expect product and service offerings and pricing competition to increase. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of customers in any particular market niche, larger technical staffs, established relationships with hardware vendors or greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Competitors for our various products include large technology companies. We also face competition from numerous smaller companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software industry and shareware authors that may develop competing products. In addition, new companies enter the market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that compete with those offered by us. Moreover, many customers historically have developed their own products that compete with those offered by us. The competition may affect our ability to attract and retain the technical skills needed to provide services to our customers, forcing us to become more reliant on delivery of services through third parties. This, in turn, could increase operating costs and decrease our revenue, profitability and cash flow. Additionally, competition from any of these sources can result in price reductions or displacement of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our competitors include large vendors of hardware or operating system software and/or service providers. The widespread inclusion of products that perform the same or similar functions as our products bundled within computer hardware or other companies’ software products, or services similar to those provided by us, could reduce the perceived need for our products and services, or render our products obsolete and unmarketable. Furthermore, even if these incorporated products are inferior or more limited than our products, customers may elect to accept the incorporated 12 Table of Contents products rather than purchase our products. In addition, the software industry is currently undergoing consolidation as software companies seek to offer more extensive suites and broader arrays of software products and services, as well as integrated software and hardware solutions. This consolidation may negatively impact our competitive position, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Refer to Item 1, “Business — (c) Narrative Description of the Business — Competition,” for additional information. Our business may suffer if we are not able to retain and attract adequate qualified personnel, including key managerial, technical, marketing and sales personnel. We operate in a business where there is intense competition for experienced personnel in all of our global markets. We depend on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, develop and retain qualified and effective personnel. Our ability to do so depends on numerous factors, including factors that we cannot control, such as competition and conditions in the local employment markets in which we operate. Our future success depends in large part on the continued contribution of our senior management and other key employees. A loss of a significant number of skilled managerial or personnel could have a negative effect on the quality of our products. A loss of a significant number of experienced and effective sales personnel could result in fewer sales of our products. Our failure to retain adequate employees in these categories could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Failure to adapt to technological change in a timely manner could materially adversely affect our revenue and earnings. If we fail to keep pace with technological change in our industry, such failure would have an adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. We operate in a highly competitive industry characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. During the past several years, many new technological advancements and competing products entered the marketplace. The distributed systems and application management markets in which we operate are far more crowded and competitive than our traditional mainframe systems management markets. Our ability to compete effectively and our growth prospects for all of our products depend upon many factors, including the success of our existing distributed systems products, the timely introduction and success of future software products, and the ability of our products to perform well with existing and future leading databases and other platforms supported by our products. We have experienced long development cycles and product delays in the past, particularly with some of our distributed systems products, and expect to have delays in the future. In addition, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant research and development costs, as we introduce new products. If there are delays in new product introductions or less-than-anticipated market acceptance of these new products, we will have invested substantial resources without realizing adequate revenues in return, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. If our products do not remain compatible with ever-changing operating environments we could lose customers and the demand for our products and services could decrease, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The largest suppliers of systems and computing software are, in most cases, the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of our customers. Historically, these companies have from time to time modified or introduced new operating systems, systems software and computer hardware. In the future, such new products from these companies could incorporate features that perform functions currently performed by our products, or could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies’ hardware or software. Although we have to date been able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and system software developers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to such changes or customer decisions to forgo the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality contained either in the hardware or operating system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 13 Table of Contents Certain software that we use in daily operations is licensed from third parties and thus may not be available to us in the future, which has the potential to delay product development and production and, therefore, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Some of our solutions contain software licensed from third parties. Some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us or allow our products to remain competitive. The loss of these licenses or the inability to maintain any of them on commercially acceptable terms could delay development of future products or the enhancement of existing products. We may also choose to pay a premium price for such a license in certain circumstances where continuity of the licensed product would outweigh the premium cost of the license. There can be no assurance that, at a given point of time, any of the above will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Certain software we use is from open source code sources, which, under certain circumstances, may lead to unintended consequences and, therefore, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Some of our products contain software from open source code sources. The use of such open source code may subject us to certain conditions, including the obligation to offer our products that use open source code for no cost. We monitor our use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. However, the use of such open source code may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions, so that we are required to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts. We believe that the use of such open source code will not have a significant impact on our operations and that our products will be viable after any remediation efforts. However, there can be no assurance that future conditions involving such open source code will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Discovery of errors in our software could materially adversely affect our revenue and earnings and subject us to product liability claims, which may be costly and time consuming. The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial shipments. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be adversely affected. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher development costs if our software contains undetected errors or if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. Significant technical challenges also arise with our products because our customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third-party software applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk further because in the event of a system-wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which product is at fault; thus, we may be harmed by the failure of another supplier’s products. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience: • Loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; • Loss of customers, including the inability to do repeat business with existing key customers; • Damage to our reputation; • Failure to achieve market acceptance; • Diversion of development resources; • Increased service and warranty costs; • Legal actions by customers against us that could, whether or not successful, increase our costs and distract our management; • Increased insurance costs; and • Failure to successfully complete service engagements for product installations and implementations. In addition, a product liability claim, whether or not successful, could be time-consuming and costly and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 14 Table of Contents Our credit ratings have been downgraded in the past and could be downgraded further, which would require us to pay additional interest under our principal revolving credit agreement and could adversely affect our ability to borrow in the future. Our senior unsecured notes are rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, and Standard and Poor’s. These agencies or any other credit rating agency may downgrade or take other negative action with respect to our credit ratings in the future. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we would be required to, among other things, pay additional interest on outstanding borrowings under our principal revolving credit agreement. Any downgrades could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. We have a significant amount of debt, and failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. As of March 31, 2008, we had $2.6 billion of debt outstanding, consisting of unsecured fixed-rate senior note obligations, convertible senior notes, and credit facility borrowings. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations and Commitments,” for the payment schedule of our long-term debt obligations, inclusive of interest. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights and source code would weaken our competitive position. Our future success is highly dependent upon our proprietary technology, including our software and our source code for such software. Failure to protect such technology could lead to our loss of valuable assets and competitive advantage. We protect our proprietary information through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, policing unauthorized use or copying of our proprietary information is difficult. Unauthorized use or copying occurs from time to time and litigation to enforce intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and diversion of resources. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not afford the same degree of protection to our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. For example, for some of our products, we rely on “shrink-wrap” or “click-on” licenses, which may be unenforceable in whole or in part in some jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, patents we have obtained may be circumvented, challenged, invalidated or designed around by other companies. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property for these or other reasons, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Refer to “Item 1, Business — (c) Narrative Description of the Business — Technological Expertise,” for additional information. We may become dependent upon large transactions, and the failure to close such transactions on a satisfactory basis could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. In the past, we have been dependent upon large-dollar enterprise transactions with individual customers. There can be no assurances that we will not be reliant on large-dollar enterprise transactions in the future, and the failure to close such transactions on commercially attractive terms to us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our sales to government clients subject us to risks, including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. Approximately 8% of our total deferred subscription value as of March 31, 2008 is associated with multi-year contracts signed with the U.S. federal government and other U.S. state and local governmental agencies. These contracts are generally subject to annual fiscal funding approval and/or may be terminated at the convenience of the government. Termination of a contract or funding for a contract could adversely affect our sales, revenue and reputation. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations, which could result in various civil and criminal 15 Table of Contents penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Our customers’ data centers and IT environments may be subject to hacking or other breaches, harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our products. If an actual or perceived breach of our customers’ network security occurs, allowing access to our customers’ data centers or other parts of their IT environments, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and diversion of our resources from development efforts. Additionally, these efforts could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our product licensing, or modification of our software, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our software products, data centers and IT environments may be subject to hacking or other breaches, harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our products. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products. Similarly, experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our data centers and IT environments and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. If these intentionally disruptive efforts are successful, our activities could be adversely affected, our reputation and future sales could be harmed and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. General economic conditions may lead our customers to delay or forgo technology upgrades which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our products are designed to improve the productivity and efficiency of our customers’ information processing resources. However, a general slowdown in the world economy or a particular region, or business or industry sector (such as the financial services sector), particularly with respect to discretionary spending for software, could cause customers to delay or forgo decisions to license new products, to upgrade their existing environments or to acquire services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The use of third-party microcode could negatively affect our product development. We anticipate ongoing use of microcode or firmware provided by hardware manufacturers. Microcode and firmware are essentially software programs embedded in hardware and are, therefore, less flexible than other types of software. We believe that such continued use will not have a significant impact on our operations and that our products will remain compatible with any changes to such code. However, there can be no assurance that future technological developments involving such microcode will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. We may lose access to third-party operating systems, which could materially adversely affect future product development. In the past, certain of our licensees using proprietary operating systems were furnished with “source code,” which makes the operating system understandable to programmers; or “object code,” which directly controls the hardware; and other technical documentation. Since the availability of source code facilitated the development of systems and applications software, which must interface with the operating systems, independent software vendors, such as us, were able to develop and market compatible software. Other vendors, including some of the largest vendors, have a policy of restricting the use or availability of the source code for some of their operating systems. To date, this policy has not had a material effect on us. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Although we do not expect that such restrictions will have this adverse effect, there can 16 Table of Contents be no assurances that such restrictions or other restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Third parties could claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights or that we owe royalty payments, which could result in significant litigation expense or settlement with unfavorable terms, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. From time to time third parties may claim that our products infringe various forms of their intellectual property or that we owe royalty payments to them. Investigation of these claims, whether with or without merit, can be expensive and could affect development, marketing or shipment of our products. As the number of software patents issued increases, it is likely that additional claims, with or without merit, will be asserted. Defending against such claims is time-consuming and could result in significant litigation expense or settlement with unfavorable terms, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Fluctuations in foreign currencies could result in translation losses. Most of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in local currencies. Given the relatively long sales cycle that is typical for many of our products and that a substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside of the U.S., foreign currency fluctuations could result in substantial changes due to the foreign currency impact upon translation of these transactions into U.S. dollars. In the normal course of business, we employ various strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. To the extent that these strategies do not manage all of the risks inherent in our foreign exchange exposures or that these strategies may cause our earnings and expenses to fluctuate more than they would have had these strategies not been employed, fluctuations of the exchange rates of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Our stock price is subject to significant fluctuations. Our stock price is subject to significant fluctuations in reaction to variations in quarterly operating and financial results, the gain or loss of significant license agreements, changes in our public forecasts of operating and financial results, changes in investment analysts’ estimates of our operating and financial results, announcements related to accounting issues, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in domestic and international economic and business conditions, general conditions in the software and computer industries and other events or factors. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries that are similar or related to those in which we operate and that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations have from time to time in the past adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which in turn could adversely affect the value of our stock-based compensation and our ability to retain and attract key employees, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Any failure by us to execute our restructuring plans and related sales model changes successfully could result in total costs that are greater than expected or revenues that are less than anticipated. We have announced restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions as well as global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. We may have further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, changes in restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. During fiscal 2008, our restructuring efforts in Asia focused on shifting our sales model in certain smaller countries from a direct sales force model to an indirect, partner-led model. We may implement this strategy in other regions in the future. Risks associated with this business model shift include the potential inability of our partners to sell our products effectively and to provide adequate implementation services and product support. A greater reliance on partners will also subject us to further third party risks associated with business practices in those regions. 17 Table of Contents We have outsourced various functions to third parties and these arrangements may not be successful, thereby resulting in increased costs or may negatively impact service levels. We have outsourced various functions to third parties and may outsource additional functions to third-party providers in the future. We rely on those third parties to provide services on a timely and effective basis. Although we closely monitor the performance of these third parties and maintain contingency plans in case the third parties are unable to perform as agreed, we do not ultimately control the performance of our outsourcing partners. The failure of third-party outsourcing partners to perform as expected or as required by contract could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow and our ability to file our financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission timely or accurately. Potential tax liabilities may materially adversely affect our results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from that which is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, a material adverse effect could result on our income tax provision, net income and cash flow in the period or periods in which that determination is made. 