Item 1A. Risk Factors Sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and management’s public comments from time to time may contain certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting our operations, both known and unknown. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information as actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated. The following discussion identifies some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Decreases in advertising spending, resulting from economic downturn, war, terrorism, natural disasters or other factors, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Ninety percent or more of our revenues for the last three years were generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising appearing in our newspapers and for broadcast on our television stations. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns, so a recession or economic downturn could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our advertising revenue tends to decline in times of national or local crisis because our television stations broadcast more news coverage and sell less advertising time. Our advertising revenues depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities that we serve. Changes in those factors could negatively affect advertising revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores, and local economic conditions in general. Two of our largest operating units, The Dallas Morning News and WFAA-TV, are located in the Dallas/ Fort Worth metropolitan market, from which we derived between 40 percent and 42 percent of our operating revenue over the last three years. Adverse conditions in this local market may be more significant than in other Company markets. Our revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonal, cyclical and other fluctuations that we expect to continue in future periods. In particular, we experience fluctuations in our revenues between even and odd numbered years. During elections for various state and national offices, which are primarily in even numbered years, advertising revenues fluctuate based on uncertain demand for political advertising in our markets. Also, since NBC has exclusive rights to broadcast the Olympics through 2012, our NBC affiliate stations typically experience increased viewership and revenues during Olympic broadcasts, which also occur in even numbered years. Other seasonal and cyclical factors that affect our revenues and results of operations may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, changes in newsprint prices and general economic factors. Fluctuations in revenues and results of operations may cause our stock price to be volatile. Our diversified media businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and our ability to maintain market share and general revenues is dependent on how effectively we compare with existing and new competition. Our diversified media businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our newspapers and television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other newspapers and other broadcast and cable television stations, as well as with other media such as magazines, satellite television and the Internet. Some of our current and potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. Our newspaper publications and television stations generate significant percentages of their advertising revenues from limited numbers of sources, including the automotive industry and classified advertising. In recent years, Web sites dedicated to recruitment, real estate and automobile sales have become significant competitors of Belo’s newspapers and Web sites for classified advertising. As a result, even in the absence of a recession or economic downturn, technological, industry or other changes specifically impacting these advertising sources could reduce advertising revenues and adversely effect our financial condition and results of operations. PAGE 12 Belo Corp. 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents In the Newspaper Group, our revenues primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising expenditures and paid circulation comes from local, regional and national newspapers, magazines, broadcast, cable and satellite television, radio, direct mail, yellow pages, the Internet and other media. The National Do Not Call Registry has impacted the way newspapers sell home-delivery circulation, particularly for the larger newspapers which historically have relied on telemarketing. Competition for newspaper advertising revenue is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and circulation levels, while competition for circulation is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price, editorial quality and customer service. On occasion, our businesses compete with each other for national, regional and local advertising. Our local and regional competitors in community newspapers are typically unique to each market, but we have many competitors for advertising revenues that may be larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than do we. Circulation revenues and our ability to achieve price increases for our print products may be affected by competition from other publications and other forms of media available in our various markets, declining consumer spending on discretionary items like newspapers, decreasing amounts of free time, and declining frequency of regular newspaper buying among certain demographics such as people ages 18-35. We may incur higher costs competing for advertising expenditures and paid circulation. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid circulation, our revenues may decline and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our Television Group competes for audiences and advertising revenues primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Advertising rates are set based upon a variety of factors, including a program’s popularity among the advertiser’s target audience, the number of advertisers competing for the available time, the size and demographic make-up of the market served and the availability of alternative advertising in the market. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, syndicated and local programming. Changes in market demographics, the entry of competitive stations into our markets, the introduction of competitive local news or other programming by cable, satellite or Internet providers, or the adoption of competitive formats by existing stations could result in lower ratings and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations may be adversely affected by consolidation in the broadcast industry, especially if competing stations in our markets are acquired by competitors who may have a greater national scope and can offer a greater variety of national and syndicated programming for audiences and enhanced opportunities for advertisers to reach broader markets. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our newspaper and television businesses may not be able to compete effectively. New technologies could also adversely affect our newspapers and television stations. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, the Internet and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized newspaper readership and television viewing audiences. Over the past decade, cable television programming services and the Internet have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate circulation of the major newspapers and viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable and satellite television, the Internet and other technological changes have increased, and may continue to increase, the competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs, may in the future increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire desired programming. In addition, video compression techniques, now in use with direct broadcast satellites and potentially soon for cable and wireless cable, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques as well as other technological developments, are applicable to all video delivery systems, including over-the-air broadcasting, and have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to highly targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these technological changes will have on the television industry or the future results of our Television Group businesses. A significant increase in the cost of newsprint or a reduction in the availability of newsprint could adversely impact our publishing business. The basic raw material for newspapers is newsprint. The cost of our newsprint consumption related to our publications totaled approximately $113,388, $107,979 and $101,588 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which was between 13 percent and 14 percent of our Newspaper Group revenues for those years. The price of newsprint historically has been volatile. Consolidation in the North American newsprint industry has reduced the number of suppliers. This consolidation has led to paper mill closures and conversions to other grades of paper, which in turn have decreased overall newsprint capacity and Belo Corp. 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 13 Table of Contents increased the likelihood of price increases in the future. We currently purchase most of Belo’s newsprint through a purchasing consortium of which Belo is a member. Our inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future or significant increases in newsprint costs could adversely effect our financial condition and results of operations. The costs of television programming may increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Programming is a significant operating cost in our television operations. We cannot be certain that we will not be exposed in the future to an increase in programming costs. Should such an increase occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, television networks have been seeking arrangements from their affiliates to share the networks’ programming costs and to eliminate network compensation traditionally paid to broadcast affiliates. We cannot predict the nature or scope of any such potential compensation arrangements or the effect, if any, on our operations. Acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase station operating costs and decrease station earnings. The loss or modification of network affiliation agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. The non-renewal or termination of network affiliation agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company has four stations affiliated with ABC, five stations affiliated with CBS, four stations affiliated with NBC, two each affiliated with UPN and WB, and one affiliated with FOX. Each of the networks generally provides our affiliated stations with 22 hours of prime time programming per week in the case of the Big-Three networks (ABC, CBS, and NBC) and 13 hours of prime time programming per week in the case of WB and UPN. Each of these agreements is subject to periodic renewal. In addition, some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated have required us and other broadcast groups, upon renewal of affiliation agreements, to reduce or eliminate network affiliate compensation and, in some cases, to make cash payments to the network, and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently, our affiliation agreements may not all remain in place and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to affiliates on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation. If this occurs, we would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. In January 2006, it was announced that the UPN and WB networks will cease operations and that a new network, The CW, will be formed. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these changes on its operations, but does not expect these changes to have a material impact on its operations. Regulatory changes may impact the Company’s strategy and increase competition and operating costs in our media businesses. As described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under “Item 1 — Business — FCC Regulation,” our television business is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. Changes in current regulations or the adoption of new laws and policies could impact the Company’s strategy, increase competition and the Company’s operating costs, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies govern the term, renewal and transfer of our television broadcasting licenses and limit certain concentrations of broadcasting control and cross-ownerships of newspapers and television stations. Relaxation of ownership restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to those with greater financial and other resources than we possess. Federal law also regulates indecency on broadcast televisions, political advertising rates and children’s programming. The television industry is transitioning from analog to digital transmissions and Congress has set February 17, 2009 as the date by which broadcasters must cease analog broadcasts and return their analog spectrum to the government. Adverse results from pending or new litigation or governmental proceedings or investigations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to litigation and governmental proceedings and investigations. Current matters include those described under “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” Adverse determinations in any of these pending or future matters could require us to make monetary payments or result in other sanctions or findings that could adversely affect our businesses, including renewal of our FCC licenses, and financial condition and results of operations. PAGE 14 Belo Corp. 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our broadcast operations will be impaired. Our television business depends upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC. Our broadcast licenses expired or will expire between 2004 and 2012 (although those that have already expired have been extended by the filing of a license renewal application with the FCC) and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. The FCC has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term. Although we expect to renew all our FCC licenses, we cannot assure investors that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. If we fail to renew any of our licenses, or renew them with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), it could prevent us from operating the affected stations and generating revenues. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our businesses effectively if we lose the services of any of our senior executive officers or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We depend on the efforts of our senior executive officers. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our key personnel. We have not entered into employment agreements with our key management personnel and we do not have “key person” insurance for any of our executive officers or key personnel. Our businesses may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by our employees. Currently, there are 23 bargaining agreements with unions representing approximately 1,300 (or approximately 17 percent) of our total number of full and part-time employees. All of these agreements will expire within the next four years, unless extended. We cannot assure investors about the results of negotiation of future collective bargaining agreements, whether future collective bargaining agreements will be negotiated without interruptions in our businesses, or the possible effect of future collective bargaining agreements on our financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot assure investors that strikes will not occur in the future in connection with labor negotiations or otherwise. Any prolonged strike or work stoppage could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a large amount of indebtedness. We currently use a portion of our operating cash flow for debt service. At December 31, 2005, we had debt outstanding of $1,244,875 and shareholders’ equity of $1,533,481. We may continue to borrow funds to finance capital expenditures, share repurchases, acquisitions or to refinance debt, as well as for other purposes. Our level of indebtedness could, for example: • Require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay indebtedness and reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other general corporate activities; • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • Expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rates on our credit facilities vary; and • Impair our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our businesses or the economy in general and place us at a disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. In addition our debt instruments require us to comply with covenants. The failure to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing the terms of our indebtedness could be an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration of our indebtedness and payment obligations. Changes in accounting standards can significantly impact reported earnings and operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying pronouncements and implementation guidelines for many aspects of our business, including those related to intangible assets, pensions, income taxes, share-based compensation, and broadcast rights, are complex and involve significant judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change our reported earnings and operating results. See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussions and Analysis of Belo Corp. 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 15 Table of Contents Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 17 — Segment Information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have a significant amount of intangible assets, and if we are required to write down intangible assets in future periods it would reduce net income. Approximately $2,582,566, or 72 percent, of our total assets as of December 31, 2005 consisted of intangible assets, principally broadcast licenses and goodwill. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” requires, among other things, the annual impairment testing of broadcast licenses and goodwill. If in the future the estimated fair value of these intangible assets decreased, we would be required to record an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 