Item 1A. Risk Factors We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue and loss of any customer could significantly affect our business We are dependent on a small number of customers for a large portion of our revenues. Both the Systems and Service and System Integration segments are reliant upon a small number of significant customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant diminution in the sales to or loss of any of our major customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our revenues are largely dependent upon the ability of our customers to have continued growth or need for services or to develop and sell products that incorporate our products. No assurance can be given that our customers will not experience financial or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, our results of operations. We depend on contracts with the federal government for a significant portion of our revenue, and our business could be seriously harmed if the government significantly decreased or ceased doing business with us. We derived 13% of our total revenue in FY2012 and 10% of our total revenue in FY2011 from the Department of Defense ("DoD") as a subcontractor. We expect that the DoD contracts will continue to be important to our business for the foreseeable future. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, the General Services Administration, or any significant agency in the intelligence community or the DoD, or if our reputation or relationship with government agencies were to be impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in budgetary priorities of the federal government. Because we derive a significant percentage of our revenue from contracts with the federal government, changes in federal government budgetary priorities could directly affect our financial performance. A significant decline in government expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs that we support or a change in federal government contracting policies could cause federal government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty or not to exercise options to renew contracts. 8 During 2011, the federal government was unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (Budget Act) passed by Congress. Unless Congress and the Administration take further action, the Budget Act will trigger automatic reductions in both defense and discretionary spending in January 2013. While the impact of sequestration is yet to be determined, automatic across-the-board budget cuts in sequestration could have significant consequences to our business and industry. In years when Congress does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (September 30), government operations are funded through a continuing resolution (CR) that temporarily funds federal agencies. Recent CRs have generally provided funding at the levels provided in the previous fiscal year and have not authorized new spending initiatives. When the federal government operates under a CR, delays can occur in the procurement of products and services. Historically, such delays have not had a material effect on our business; however, should funding of the federal government by CR be prolonged or extended through the entire government 2013 fiscal year, and sequestration take place in January 2013 as part of the implementation of the Budget Act, it could have significant consequences to our business and our industry. Additionally, our business could be seriously affected if the demand for and priority of funding for combat operations in Afghanistan decreases which may reduce the demand for our services on contracts supporting some operations and maintenance activities in the Department of Defense or if we experience an increase in set-asides for small businesses, which could result in our inability to compete directly for prime contracts. . Federal government contracts contain numerous provisions that are unfavorable to us. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies, some of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including allowing the government to: • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • claim rights in systems and software developed by us; • suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency; • impose fines and penalties and subject us to criminal prosecution; and • control or prohibit the export of our data and technology. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may be unable to recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Depending on the value of a contract, such termination could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. As is common with government contractors, we have experienced and continue to experience occasional performance issues under certain of our contracts. Depending upon the value of the matters affected, a performance problem that impacts our performance of a program or contract could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We rely on single sources for supply of certain components and our business may be seriously harmed if our supply of any of these components or other components is disrupted Several components used in our Systems products are currently obtained from sole-source suppliers. We are dependent on key vendors like Myricom, Inc. and Mellanox Technologies for our high-speed interconnect components, Freescale for many of our PowerPC line of processors and Intel for our microprocessors, and Wind River Systems, Inc. for VxWorks operating system software. Generally, suppliers may terminate their purchase order with us without cause upon 30 days' notice and may cease offering products to us upon 180 days' notice. Although we do not consider the risk of interruption of supply to be a significant risk in the near term, if in the future, Myricom or Freescale were to limit or reduce the sale of such components to us, or if these or other component suppliers to us, some of which are small companies, were to experience future financial difficulties or other problems which could prevent them from supplying us with the necessary components, such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These sole source and other suppliers are each subject to quality and performance issues, materials shortages, excess demand, reduction in capacity and other factors that may disrupt the flow of goods to us or our customers, which thereby may adversely affect our business and customer relationships. 9 We have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and there can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to meet our requirements. If our supply arrangements are interrupted, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find another supplier on a timely or satisfactory basis. Any shortage or interruption in the supply of any of the components used in our products, or the inability to procure these components from alternate sources on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that severe shortages of components will not occur in the future. Such shortages could increase the cost or delay the shipment of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant increases in the prices of these components would also materially adversely affect our financial performance since we may not be able to adjust product pricing to reflect the increase in component costs. We could incur set-up costs and delays in manufacturing should it become necessary to replace any key vendors due to work stoppages, shipping delays, financial difficulties or other factors and, under certain circumstances, these costs and delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our International Operations are Subject to a Number of Risks We market and sell our products in certain international markets and we have established operations in the U.K. and Germany. Foreign-based revenue is determined based on the location to which the product is shipped or services are rendered and represented 44% and 41% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. If revenues generated by foreign activities are not adequate to offset the expense of establishing and maintaining these foreign subsidiaries and activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, there are certain risks inherent in transacting business internationally, such as changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, export controls relating to technology, tariffs and other trade barriers, longer payment cycles, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political instability, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely impact the success of our international activities. A portion of our revenues are from sales to foreign entities, including foreign governments, which are primarily paid in the form of foreign currencies. There can be no assurance that one or more of such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international activities and, consequently, on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on key personnel and skilled employees and face competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees. We are largely dependent upon the skills and efforts of our senior management, managerial, sales and technical employees. None of our senior management personnel or other key employees are subject to any employment contracts except Victor Dellovo, our Chief Executive Officer and President. The loss of services of any of our executives or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled technical professionals. Our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business depends, in large part, on our ability to hire and retain technical personnel with the skills that keep pace with continuing changes in industry standards and technologies. The inability to hire additional qualified personnel could impair our ability to satisfy our growing client base, requiring an increase in the level of responsibility for both existing and new personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining current or future employees. New regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our relationships with customers. On August 22, 2012, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new disclosure regulations for public companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, known as “conflict minerals,” if these minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of the company's products. These regulations require such issuers to report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of conflict minerals used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, we may incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. Because our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we implement may not enable us to ascertain the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are DRC conflict-free, which may harm our reputation. We may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as DRC conflict-free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and lead to a loss of revenue. These new requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. 10 Systems failures may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Any systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, a third party service provider, unauthorized intruders and hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks, could cause loss of data or interruptions or delays in our business or that of our clients. Like other companies, we have experienced cyber security threats to our data and systems, our company sensitive information, and our information technology infrastructure, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, systems failures and temporary disruptions. We may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement. Prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material adverse impact on our business or our financial results, and we believe that our continuing commitment toward threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures will avoid such impact in the future. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. In addition, the failure or disruption of our mail, communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise harm our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. The systems and networks that we maintain for our clients, although highly redundant in their design, could also fail. If a system or network we maintain were to fail or experience service interruptions, we might experience loss of revenue or face claims for damages or contract termination. Our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all the damages that we might incur and, as a result, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We face competition that could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent product performance improvements and evolving industry standards. Due to the rapidly changing nature of technology, new competitors may emerge of which we have no current awareness. Competitors may be able to offer more attractive pricing or develop products that could offer performance features that are superior to our products, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Such competitors could have a negative impact on our ability to win future business opportunities. There can be no assurance that a new competitor will not attempt to penetrate the various markets for our products and services. Their entry into markets historically targeted by us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our operating results have fluctuated widely on a quarterly and annual basis during the last several years and we expect to experience significant fluctuations in future operating results. Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, have contributed to these fluctuations in the past and may continue to do so. Such factors include: • sales in relatively large dollar amounts to a relatively small number of customers; • competitive pricing programs and volume discounts; • loss of customers; • market acceptance of our products; • product obsolescence; • general economic conditions; • change in the mix of products sold; • whether or not we are able to secure design wins for significant customer systems; • timing of significant orders; • delays in completion of internal product development projects; • delays in shipping our products; • delays in acceptance testing by customers; 11 • production delays due to quality programs with outsourced components; • shortages of components; • timing of product line transitions; • declines of revenues from previous generations of products following announcement of replacement products containing more advance technology; and • fixed nature of our expenditures on personnel, facilities and marketing programs. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicative of our future performance. It is also possible that in some periods, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such circumstances, the price of our common stock may decline. To be successful, we must respond to the rapid changes in technology. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our current products and to develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis in order to respond to technological developments and changing customer needs. The defense market, in particular, demands constant technological improvements as a means of gaining military advantage. Military planners historically have funded significantly more design projects than actual deployments of new equipment and those systems that are deployed tend to contain the components of the subcontractors selected to participate in the design process. In order to participate in the design of new defense electronics systems, we must be able to demonstrate our ability to deliver superior technological performance on a timely and cost-effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure an adequate number of defense electronics design wins in the future, that the equipment in which our products are intended to function eventually will be deployed in the field, or that our products will be included in such equipment if it is eventually deployed. The design-in process is typically lengthy and expensive and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to meet the product specifications of our customers in a timely and adequate manner. In addition, if we fail to anticipate or to respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or if there is any significant delay in product developments or introductions, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the risk of inventory obsolescence. Because of the complexity of our products, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing products on a timely basis. If we are unable to design, develop or introduce competitive new products on a timely basis, our future operating results would be adversely affected, particularly in our Systems segment. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing new products or enhancing our existing products on a timely or cost-effective basis, or that such new products or product enhancements will achieve market acceptance. We need to continue to expend resources on research and development efforts to meet the needs of our customers. The industry in which our Systems segment competes is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. If we fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, our products could become less attractive to potential customers and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As a result of our need to maintain or increase our spending levels in this area and the difficulty in reducing costs associated with research and development, our operating results could be materially harmed if our revenues fall below expectations. In addition, as a result of CSPI's commitment to invest in research and development, spending as a percent of revenues may fluctuate in the future. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary in order for us to provide reliable financial and other reports and effectively prevent fraud. These types of controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the proper preparation of our financial statements, as well as regarding the timely reporting of material information. If we cannot maintain effective internal control or disclosure controls and procedures, or provide reliable financial statements or SEC reports or prevent fraud, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, our common stock could be subject to delisting on the stock exchange where it is traded, our operating results and the trading price of our common stock could suffer and we might become subject to litigation. 12 While our management will continue to review the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, there is no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives, including the prevention and detection of fraud, all of the time. Our Stock Price May Continue to be Volatile Historically, the market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile. Our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience, substantial price volatility. The following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly: • loss of a major customer; • loss of a major supplier; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements; • acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • regulatory changes; • sales of our common stock or other securities in the future; • changes in market valuations of technology companies; and • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes. In addition, the stock market in general and the NASDAQ Global Market and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Factors that may Affect Future Performance This document contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made. As it is not possible to predict every new factor that may emerge, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual future financial condition or results. In response to competitive pressures or new product introductions, we may take certain pricing or marketing actions that could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, changes in the products and services mix may cause fluctuations in our gross margin. Due to the potential quarterly fluctuations in operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily an indicator of future performance. Markets for our products and services are characterized by rapidly changing technology, new product introductions and short product life cycles. These changes can adversely affect our business and operating results. Our success will depend upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost effective basis, new products that keep pace with technological developments and address increasing customer requirements. The inability to meet these demands could adversely affect our business and operating results. 