Item 1A Risk Factors, in this report. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Information About TriCo Bancshares’ Business TriCo Bancshares (the “Company”, “TriCo”, “we” or “our”) was incorporated in California on October 13, 1981. It was organized at the direction of the board of directors of Tri Counties Bank (the “Bank”) for the purpose of serving as a bank holding company for the Bank. On September 7, 1982, the shareholders of Tri Counties Bank became the shareholders of TriCo and Tri Counties Bank became a wholly owned subsidiary of TriCo. At that time, TriCo became a bank holding company subject to the supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. Tri Counties Bank remains subject to the supervision of the California Department of Financial Institutions (“DFI”) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). On July 31, 2003, the Company formed a subsidiary business trust, TriCo Capital Trust I, to issue trust preferred securities. On June 22, 2004, the Company formed a subsidiary business trust, TriCo Capital Trust II, to issue additional trust preferred securities. See Note 17 in the financial statements at Item 8 of this report for a discussion about the Company’s issuance of trust preferred securities. Tri Counties Bank, TriCo Capital Trust I and TriCo Capital Trust II currently are the only subsidiaries of TriCo and TriCo is not conducting any business operations independent of Tri Counties Bank, TriCo Capital Trust I and TriCo Capital Trust II. For financial reporting purposes, the financial statements of the Bank are consolidated into the financial statements of the Company. Historically, issuer trusts, such as TriCo Capital Trust I and TriCo Capital Trust II, that issued trust preferred securities have been consolidated by their parent companies and trust preferred securities have been treated as eligible for Tier 1 capital treatment by bank holding companies under FRB rules and regulations relating to minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries. Applying the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 810 “Consolidation”, the Company is no longer permitted to consolidate such issuer trusts beginning on December 31, 2003. The FRB permits trust preferred securities to be treated as Tier 1 up to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital. Additional information concerning the Company can be found on our website at www.tcbk.com. Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports are available free of charge through our website, www.tcbk.com, at Investor Relations—“SEC Filings” and “Annual Reports” as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company files these reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not incorporated into this annual report. Business of Tri Counties Bank Tri Counties Bank was incorporated as a California banking corporation on June 26, 1974, and received its certificate of authority to begin banking operations on March 11, 1975. Tri Counties Bank engages in the general commercial banking business in the California counties of Butte, Contra Costa, Del Norte, Fresno, Glenn, Kern, Lake, Lassen, Madera, Mendocino, Merced, Napa, Nevada, Placer, Sacramento, Shasta, Siskiyou, Stanislaus, Sutter, Tehama, Tulare, Yolo and Yuba. Tri Counties Bank currently operates from 41 traditional branches and 27 in-store branches. General Banking Services The Bank conducts a commercial banking business including accepting demand, savings and time deposits and making commercial, real estate, and consumer loans. It also offers installment note collection, issues cashier’s checks, sells travelers checks and provides safe deposit boxes and other customary banking services. Brokerage services are provided at the Bank’s offices by the Bank’s association with Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., an independent financial services provider and broker-dealer. The Bank does not offer trust services or international banking services. 2 Table of Contents The Bank has emphasized retail banking since it opened. Most of the Bank’s customers are retail customers and small to medium-sized businesses. The Bank emphasizes serving the needs of local businesses, farmers and ranchers, retired individuals and wage earners. The majority of the Bank’s loans are direct loans made to individuals and businesses in northern and central California where its branches are located. At December 31, 2011, the total of the Bank’s consumer loans net of deferred fees outstanding was $406,330,000 (26.2%), the total of commercial loans outstanding was $139,131,000 (9.0%), and the total of real estate loans including construction loans of $39,649,000 was $1,005,571,000 (64.8%). The Bank takes real estate, listed and unlisted securities, savings and time deposits, automobiles, machinery, equipment, inventory, accounts receivable and notes receivable secured by property as collateral for loans. Most of the Bank’s deposits are attracted from individuals and business-related sources. No single person or group of persons provides a material portion of the Bank’s deposits, the loss of any one or more of which would have a materially adverse effect on the business of the Bank, nor is a material portion of the Bank’s loans concentrated within a single industry or group of related industries. In order to attract loan and deposit business from individuals and small to medium-sized businesses, branches of the Bank set lobby hours to accommodate local demands. In general, lobby hours are from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Friday. Some Bank offices also utilize drive-up facilities operating from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. The supermarket branches are open from 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Sunday. The Bank offers 24-hour ATMs at all branch locations. The Bank’s 76 ATMs are linked to several national and regional networks such as CIRRUS and STAR. In addition, banking by telephone on a 24-hour toll-free number is available to all customers. This service allows a customer to obtain account balances and most recent transactions, transfer moneys between accounts, make loan payments, and obtain interest rate information. In February 1998, the Bank became the first bank in the Northern Sacramento Valley to offer banking services on the Internet. This banking service provides customers one more tool to access their accounts. Purchase and Assumption of Certain Assets and Liabilities of Citizens Bank of Northern California On September 23, 2011, the Bank acquired certain of the assets and assumed substantially all of the liabilities of Citizens Bank of Northern California, Nevada City, California (“Citizens”), including substantially all the deposits from the FDIC, as receiver for Citizens. The acquisition was made pursuant to the terms of a purchase and assumption agreement entered into by the Bank and the FDIC. Based upon a preliminary closing with the FDIC as of September 23, 2011, the Bank acquired $167.5 million in loans, $9.4 million in investment securities, and $93.5 million in cash and other assets, and assumed an estimated $239.9 million in deposits, $22.0 million in borrowings, and $0.1 million in other liabilities. The Bank paid no cash or other consideration to acquire Citizens. See Note 2 in the financial statements at Item 8 of this report for a discussion about this transaction. Purchase and Assumption of Certain Assets and Liabilities of Granite Community Bank On May 28, 2010, the Bank acquired certain of the assets and assumed substantially all of the liabilities of Granite Community Bank, N.A., Granite Bay, California (“Granite”), including substantially all the deposits from the FDIC, as receiver for Granite. The acquisition was made pursuant to the terms of a purchase and assumption agreement entered into by the Bank and the FDIC. The Bank acquired $77.0 million in loans, $3.8 million in investment securities, and $22.2 million in cash and other assets, and assumed an estimated $94.8 million in deposits, $5.0 million in borrowings, and $0.1 million in other liabilities. The Bank paid no cash or other consideration to acquire Granite. In connection with the Acquisition, the Bank entered into a loss-sharing agreement with the FDIC that covered approximately $89.3 million of Granite’s assets. The Bank will share in the losses on the asset pools (loans, foreclosed loan collateral, and certain investment securities) covered under the loss-sharing agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the loss sharing agreement, the FDIC is obligated to reimburse the Bank for 80% of losses with respect to covered assets. The Bank will reimburse the FDIC for 80% of recoveries with respect to losses for which the FDIC paid the Bank under the loss sharing agreement. See Note 2 in the financial statements at Item 8 of this report for a discussion about this transaction. Other Activities The Bank may in the future engage in other businesses either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries acquired or formed by the Bank subject to regulatory constraints. See “Regulation and Supervision.” Employees At December 31, 2011, the Company and the Bank employed 799 persons, including seven executive officers. Full time equivalent employees were 718. No employees of the Company or the Bank are presently represented by a union or covered under a collective bargaining agreement. Management believes that its employee relations are excellent. 3 Table of Contents Competition The banking business in California generally, and in the Bank’s primary service area of Northern and Central California specifically, is highly competitive with respect to both loans and deposits. It is dominated by a relatively small number of national and regional banks with many offices operating over a wide geographic area. Among the advantages such major banks have over the Bank is their ability to finance wide ranging advertising campaigns and to allocate their investment assets to regions of high yield and demand. By virtue of their greater total capitalization such institutions have substantially higher lending limits than does the Bank. In addition to competing with savings institutions, commercial banks compete with other financial markets for funds as a result of the deregulation of the financial services industry. Yields on corporate and government debt securities and other commercial paper may be higher than on deposits, and therefore affect the ability of commercial banks to attract and hold deposits. Commercial banks also compete for available funds with money market instruments and mutual funds. During past periods of high interest rates, money market funds have provided substantial competition to banks for deposits and they may continue to do so in the future. Mutual funds are also a major source of competition for savings dollars. The Bank relies substantially on local promotional activity, personal contacts by its officers, directors, employees and shareholders, extended hours, personalized service and its reputation in the communities it services to compete effectively. Regulation and Supervision General The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state law. This regulation is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance fund, and the banking system as a whole, and not for the protection of shareholders of the Company. Set forth below is a summary description of the significant laws and regulations applicable to the Company and the Bank. The description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the applicable laws and regulations. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to effect a fundamental restructuring of federal banking regulation. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify systemic risks in the financial system and gives federal regulators new authority to take control of and liquidate financial firms. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new independent federal regulator to administer federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act is expected to have a significant impact on our business operations as its provisions take effect. Among the provisions that are likely to affect us are the following: Holding Company Capital Requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to apply consolidated capital requirements to depository institution holding companies that are no less stringent than those currently applied to depository institutions. Under these standards, trust preferred securities will be excluded from Tier 1 capital unless such securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a bank holding company with less than $15 billion in assets. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires capital requirements to be countercyclical so that the required amount of capital increases in times of economic expansion and decreases in times of economic contraction, consistent with safety and soundness. Deposit Insurance. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increases the maximum deposit insurance amount for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, and extends unlimited deposit insurance to non-interest bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to increase the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits by 2020 and eliminates the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to insured depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. Effective one year from the date of enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal statutory prohibition against the payment of interest on business checking accounts. Corporate Governance. The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation at their first annual meeting taking place six months after the date of enactment and at least every three years thereafter and on so-called “golden parachute” payments in connection with approvals of mergers and acquisitions unless previously voted on by shareholders. The new legislation also authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow shareholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal banking regulators to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to executives of depository institutions and their holding companies with assets in excess of $1.0 billion, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. It also gives the SEC authority to prohibit broker discretionary voting on elections of directors and executive compensation matters. 4 Table of Contents Prohibition Against Charter Conversions of Troubled Institutions. Effective one year after enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits a depository institution from converting from a state to federal charter or vice versa while it is the subject of a cease and desist order or other formal enforcement action or a memorandum of understanding with respect to a significant supervisory matter unless the appropriate federal banking agency gives notice of the conversion to the federal or state authority that issued the enforcement action and that agency does not object within 30 days. Interstate Branching. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes national and state banks to establish branches in other states to the same extent as a bank chartered by that state would be permitted to branch. Previously, banks could only establish branches in other states if the host state expressly permitted out-of-state banks to establish branches in that state. Accordingly, banks will be able to enter new markets more freely. Limits on Derivatives. Effective 18 months after enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits state-chartered banks from engaging in derivatives transactions unless the loans to one borrower limits of the state in which the bank is chartered take into consideration credit exposure to derivatives transactions. For this purpose, derivative transaction includes any contract, agreement, swap, warrant, note or option that is based in whole or in part on the value of, any interest in, or any quantitative measure or the occurrence of any event relating to, one or more commodities securities, currencies, interest or other rates, indices or other assets. Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders. Effective one year from the date of enactment, the Dodd-Frank Act expands the definition of affiliate for purposes of quantitative and qualitative limitations of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act to include mutual funds advised by a depository institution or its affiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act will apply Section 23A and Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act (governing transactions with insiders) to derivative transactions, repurchase agreements and securities lending and borrowing transactions that create credit exposure to an affiliate or an insider. Any such transactions with affiliates must be fully secured. The current exemption from Section 23A for transactions with financial subsidiaries will be eliminated. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new, independent federal agency called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), which is granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth in Lending Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Act, the Consumer Financial Privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain other statutes. The CFPB will have examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. Smaller institutions will be subject to rules promulgated by the CFPB but will continue to be examined and supervised by federal banking regulators for consumer compliance purposes. The CFPB will have authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act will allow borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a “qualified mortgage” as defined by the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. Regulatory Agencies The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and its other subsidiaries. As a bank holding company, the Company is regulated under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”), and is subject to supervision, regulation and inspection by the FRB. The Company is also under the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and is subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each administered by the SEC. The Company is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select market (“Nasdaq”) under the trading symbol “TCBK” and is subject to the rules of Nasdaq for listed companies. The Bank, as a state chartered bank, is subject to broad federal regulation and oversight extending to all its operations by the FDIC and to state regulation by the DFI. The Bank Holding Company Act The Company is a bank holding company. In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks and other activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. As a result of the Gramm-Bliley Act, which amended the BHC Act, bank holding companies that are financial holding companies may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the FRB in consultation with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”)) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity, and that does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as determined solely by the FRB). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and agency, and making merchant banking investments. 5 Table of Contents If a bank holding company seeks to engage in the broader range of activities that are permitted under the BHC Act for financial holding companies, (i) all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be “well capitalized” and “well managed” and (ii) it must file a declaration with the FRB that it elects to be a financial holding company. A depository institution subsidiary is considered to be “well capitalized” if it satisfies the requirements for this status discussed in the section captioned “Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action,” included elsewhere in this item. A depository institution subsidiary is considered “well managed” if it received a composite rating and management rating of at least “satisfactory” in its most recent examination. In addition, the subsidiary depository institution must have received a rating of at least “satisfactory” in its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act. (See the section captioned “Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations” included elsewhere in this item.) The Company has not elected to become a financial holding company. The BHC Act, the Federal Bank Merger Act, and other federal and state statutes regulate acquisitions of commercial banks. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the FRB for the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of a commercial bank or its parent holding company. Under the Federal Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of an acquiring bank’s primary federal regulator is required before it may merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined organization, the applicant’s performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act, fair housing laws and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. Safety and Soundness Standards The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”) implemented certain specific restrictions on transactions and required the regulators to adopt overall safety and soundness standards for depository institutions related to internal control, loan underwriting and documentation, and asset growth. Among other things, FDICIA limits the interest rates paid on deposits by undercapitalized institutions, the use of brokered deposits and the aggregate extension of credit by a depository institution to an executive officer, director, principal stockholder or related interest, and reduces deposit insurance coverage for deposits offered by undercapitalized institutions for deposits by certain employee benefits accounts. Section 39 to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act requires the agencies to establish safety and soundness standards for insured financial institutions covering: • internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; • loan documentation; • credit underwriting; • interest rate exposure; • asset growth; • compensation, fees and benefits; • asset quality, earnings and stock valuation; and • excessive compensation for executive officers, directors or principal shareholders which could lead to material financial loss. If an agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard established by the guidelines, the agency may require the financial institution to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. If the agency requires submission of a compliance plan and the institution fails to timely submit an acceptable plan or to implement an accepted plan, the agency must require the institution to correct the deficiency. An institution must file a compliance plan within 30 days of a request to do so from the institution’s primary federal regulatory agency. The agencies may elect to initiate enforcement action in certain cases rather than rely on an existing plan particularly where failure to meet one or more of the standards could threaten the safe and sound operation of the institution. Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions A California corporation such as TriCo may make a distribution to its shareholders if the corporation’s retained earnings equal at least the amount of the proposed distribution or if after giving effect to the distribution, the value of the corporation’s assets exceed the amount of its liabilities plus the amount of shareholders preferences, if any, and certain other conditions are met. The primary source of funds for payment of dividends by TriCo to its shareholders will be the receipt of dividends and management fees from the Bank. TriCo’s ability to receive dividends from the Bank is limited by applicable state and federal law. Under the California Financial Code, funds available for cash dividend payments by a bank are restricted to the lesser of: (i) retained earnings; or (ii) the bank’s net income for its last three fiscal years (less any distributions to shareholders made during such period). However, with the prior approval of the Commissioner of the DFI, a bank may pay cash dividends in an amount not to exceed the greatest of the: (1) retained earnings of the bank; (2) net income of the bank for its last fiscal year; or (3) net income of the bank for its current fiscal year. However, if the DFI finds that the shareholders’ equity of the bank is not adequate or that the payment of a dividend would be unsafe or unsound, the Commissioner may order the bank not to pay a dividend to shareholders. 6 Table of Contents Additionally, under FDICIA, a bank may not make any capital distribution, including the payment of dividends, if after making such distribution the bank would be in any of the “undercapitalized” categories under the FDIC’s Prompt Corrective Action regulations. A bank is undercapitalized for this purpose if its leverage ratios, Tier 1 risk-based capital level and total risk-based capital ratio are not at least four percent, four percent and eight percent, respectively. The FRB, FDIC and the DFI have authority to prohibit a bank holding company or a bank from engaging in practices which are considered to be unsafe and unsound. Depending on the financial condition of the Bank and upon other factors, the FRB, FDIC or the DFI could determine that payment of dividends or other payments by TriCo or the Bank might constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Finally, any dividend that would cause a bank to fall below required capital levels could also be prohibited. Source of Strength Doctrine The Dodd-Frank Act requires a bank holding company to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks. Under this “source of strength doctrine,” a bank holding company is expected to stand ready to use its available resources to provide adequate capital funds to its subsidiary banks during periods of financial stress or adversity, and to maintain resources and the capacity to raise capital that it can commit to its subsidiary banks. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment of deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. The BHC Act provides that, in the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. Furthermore, the FRB has the right to order a bank holding company to terminate any activity that the FRB believes is a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any subsidiary bank. Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations The Company is subject to many federal consumer protection statues and regulations, some of which are discussed below. The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 is intended to encourage insured depository institutions, while operating safely and soundly, to help meet the credit needs of their communities. This act specifically directs the federal regulatory agencies to assess a bank’s record of helping meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound practices. This act further requires the agencies to take a financial institution’s record of meeting its community credit needs into account when evaluating applications for, among other things, domestic branches, mergers or acquisitions, or holding company formations. The agencies use the Community Reinvestment Act assessment factors in order to provide a rating to the financial institution. The ratings range from a high of “outstanding” to a low of “substantial noncompliance.” The Equal Credit Opportunity Act generally prohibits discrimination in any credit transaction, whether for consumer or business purposes, on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (except in limited circumstances), receipt of income from public assistance programs, or good faith exercise of any rights under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Truth-in-Lending Act is designed to ensure that credit terms are disclosed in a meaningful way so that consumers may compare credit terms more readily and knowledgeably. The Fair Housing Act regulates many practices, including making it unlawful for any lender to discriminate in its housing-related lending activities against any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status. The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act grew out of public concern over credit shortages in certain urban neighborhoods and provides public information that will help show whether financial institutions are serving the housing credit needs of the neighborhoods and communities in which they are located. This act also includes a “fair lending” aspect that requires the collection and disclosure of data about applicant and borrower characteristics as a way of identifying possible discriminatory lending patterns and enforcing anti-discrimination statutes. The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act requires lenders to provide borrowers with disclosures regarding the nature and cost of real estate settlements. Also, this act prohibits certain abusive practices, such as kickbacks, and places limitations on the amount of escrow accounts. Penalties under the above laws may include fines, reimbursements, injunctive relief and other penalties. 7 Table of Contents USA Patriot Act of 2001 The USA Patriot Act was enacted in 2001 to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. The impact of the Patriot Act on financial institutions is significant and wide ranging. The Patriot Act contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and requires various regulations, including: • due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain, or manage private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non-U.S. persons, • standards for verifying customer identification at account opening, • rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement entities to assist in the identification of parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering, • reports to be filed by non-financial trades and business with the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for transactions exceeding $10,000, and • the filing of suspicious activities reports by securities brokers and dealers if they believe a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations. Capital Requirements Federal regulation imposes upon all financial institutions a variable system of risk-based capital guidelines designed to make capital requirements sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banking organizations, to take into account off-balance sheet exposures and to promote uniformity in the definition of bank capital uniform nationally. The Bank and the Company are subject to the minimum capital requirements of the FDIC and the FRB, respectively. As a result of these requirements, the growth in assets is limited by the amount of its capital as defined by the respective regulatory agency. Capital requirements may have an effect on profitability and the payment of dividends on the common stock of the Bank and the Company. If an entity is unable to increase its assets without violating the minimum capital requirements or is forced to reduce assets, its ability to generate earnings would be reduced. The FRB and the FDIC have adopted guidelines utilizing a risk-based capital structure. Qualifying capital is divided into two tiers. Tier 1 capital consists generally of common stockholders’ equity, qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock (up to 25% of total Tier 1 capital) and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Tier 2 capital consists of, among other things, allowance for loan and lease losses up to 1.25% of weighted risk assets, other perpetual preferred stock, hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock. Tier 2 capital qualifies as part of total capital up to a maximum of 100% of Tier 1 capital. Amounts in excess of these limits may be issued but are not included in the calculation of risk-based capital ratios. Under these risk-based capital guidelines, the Bank and the Company are required to maintain capital equal to at least 8% of its assets, of which at least 4% must be in the form of Tier 1 capital. The guidelines also require the Company and the Bank to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4% of Tier 1 capital to total assets (the “leverage ratio”). The leverage ratio is determined by dividing an institution’s Tier 1 capital by its quarterly average total assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The leverage ratio constitutes a minimum requirement for the most well-run banking organizations. See Note 19 in the financial statements at Item 8 of this report for a discussion about the Company’s risk-based capital and leverage ratios. Prompt Corrective Action Prompt Corrective Action Regulations of the federal bank regulatory agencies establish five capital categories in descending order (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized), assignment to which depends upon the institution’s total risk-based capital ratio, Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, and leverage ratio. Institutions classified in one of the three undercapitalized categories are subject to certain mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions, which include increased monitoring and review, implementation of capital restoration plans, asset growth restrictions, limitations upon expansion and new business activities, requirements to augment capital, restrictions upon deposit gathering and interest rates, replacement of senior executive officers and directors, and requiring divestiture or sale of the institution. The Bank has been classified as well-capitalized since adoption of these regulations. Impact of Monetary Policies Banking is a business that depends on interest rate differentials. In general, the difference between the interest paid by a bank on its deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rate earned by banks on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets comprises the major source of banks’ earnings. Thus, the earnings and growth of banks are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the FRB. The FRB implements national monetary policy, such as seeking to curb inflation and combat recession, by its open-market dealings in United States government securities, by adjusting the required level of reserves for financial institutions subject to reserve requirements and through adjustments to the discount rate applicable to borrowings by banks which are members of the FRB. The actions of the FRB in these areas influence the growth of bank 8 Table of Contents loans, investments and deposits and also affect interest rates. The nature and timing of any future changes in such policies and their impact on the Company cannot be predicted. In addition, adverse economic conditions could make a higher provision for loan losses a prudent course and could cause higher loan loss charge-offs, thus adversely affecting the Company’s net earnings. Premiums for Deposit Insurance Deposit accounts in the Bank are insured by the FDIC, generally up to a maximum of $250,000 per separately insured depositor. The Bank’s deposits are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The Bank pays insurance assessments based on its consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital. This assessment is based on the risk category of the institution. To determine the total base assessment rate, the FDIC first establishes an institution’s initial base assessment rate. This initial base assessment rate ranges, depending on the risk category of the institution, from 5 to 35 basis points. The FDIC then adjusts the initial base assessment based upon an institution’s levels of unsecured debt, secured liabilities, and brokered deposits. The total base assessment rate ranges from 2.5 to 45 basis points of the institution’s average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital. In May of 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. As a result, the Bank’s expense for deposit insurance for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 includes approximately $933,000 for this emergency assessment which was levied as of June 30, 2009 and paid on September 30, 2009. In November of 2009, the FDIC adopted an amendment to its assessment regulations to require insured institutions to prepay, on December 30, 2009, their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of calendar 2009 and for all of the calendar years 2010, 2011 and 2012. The amount of the prepayment was generally determined based upon an institution’s assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009, adjusted to reflect a 5% growth and as an assessment rate increase of three cents per $100 of deposits effective January 1, 2011. The Bank’s prepayment amount was $10,544,000. The Dodd-Frank Act broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments and requires the FDIC to revise its regulations so that deposit insurance assessments will be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. Assessment rates on this larger assessment base will initially range from 5 to 35 basis points. After potential adjustment for certain risk elements, the range will be 2.5 to 45 basis points. On November 21, 2008, the Board of Directors of the FDIC adopted a final rule relating to the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLG Program”). The TLG Program was intended to counter the system-wide crisis in the nation’s financial sector. Under the TLG Program the FDIC (i) guaranteed, through the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by participating institutions on or after October 14, 2008, and before June 30, 2009 and (ii) provided unlimited FDIC deposit insurance coverage for non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (“NOW”) accounts paying not more than 0.25% interest per annum and Interest on Lawyers Trust Accounts (“IOLTA”) accounts held at participating FDIC- insured institutions through December 31, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act extends unlimited deposit insurance to non-interest bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2012. Coverage under the TLG Program was available for the first 30 days without charge. The fee assessment for coverage of senior unsecured debt ranges from 50 basis points to 100 basis points per annum, depending on the initial maturity of the debt. The fee assessment for deposit insurance coverage is 10 basis points per quarter on amounts in covered accounts exceeding $250,000. On December 5, 2008, the Company elected to participate in both guarantee programs. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had issued no debt under the TLG Program. Securities Laws The Company is subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which include filing annual, quarterly and other current reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act was enacted in 2002 to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures made pursuant to securities laws. Among other things, this act: • prohibits a registered public accounting firm from performing specified nonaudit services contemporaneously with a mandatory audit, • requires the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of an issuer to certify each annual or quarterly report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, • requires an issuer to disclose all material off-balance sheet transactions that may have a material effect on an issuer’s financial status, and • prohibits insider transactions in an issuer’s stock during lock-out periods of an issuer’s pension plans. The Company is also required to comply with the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc., on which its common stock is listed. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In analyzing whether to make or continue an investment in the Company, investors should consider, among other factors, the following: Risks Related to the Nature and Geographic Area of Our Business The economic downturn in the United States and in California in particular could hurt our profits. The economies of the United States and California are experiencing an economic slowdown marked by increase unemployment and slower economic growth. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending, declines in the value of real estate and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Since mid-2007, and through 2011, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Overall, during 2011, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in California and the United States. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected by business conditions in Northern and Central California. We conduct most of our business in Northern and Central California. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results are impacted by the difficult economic conditions in California. The current and on-going deterioration in the economic conditions in California could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows: • problem assets and foreclosures may increase, • demand for our products and services may decline, • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease, and • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in both Northern and Central California, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse effects of any of these consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to risks in connection with the loans we make. A significant source of risk for us arises from the possibility that we will sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We have underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that we believe to be appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our respective loan portfolios. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. We could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The allowance for loan losses reflects our estimate of the probable losses in our loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the known risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses 10 Table of Contents may exceed current estimates. Federal and state regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further or that the allowance will be adequate to absorb loan losses we actually incur. Either of these occurrences could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant majority of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate and the downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business. The downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. As real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans is reduced. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral could then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 88.8% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. So if there is a significant further decline in real estate values in California, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. Real estate values could also be affected by, among other things, earthquakes and national disasters particular to California in particular. Any such downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of our senior management team of Messrs. Smith, O’Sullivan, Bailey, Reddish, Carney, Miller and Rios, who have expertise in banking and experience in the California markets we serve and have targeted for future expansion. We also depend upon a number of other key executives who are California natives or are long-time residents and who are integral to implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of any one of our senior executive management team or other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Strong competition in California could hurt our profits. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete. We compete exclusively in northern and central California for loans, deposits and customers with commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. In particular, our competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions may have larger lending limits which would allow them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened loan production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our previous results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth and level of profitability or may not even be able to grow our business or continue to be profitable at all. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence and financial performance. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral that we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recent health care legislation could increase our expenses or require us to pass further costs on to our employees, which could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Legislation enacted in 2010 requires companies to provide expanded health care coverage to their employees, such as affordable coverage to part-time employees and coverage to dependent adult children of employees. Companies will also be required to enroll new employees automatically into their health plans. Compliance with these and other new requirements of the health care legislation will increase our employee benefits expense, and may require us to pass these costs on to our employees, which could give us a competitive disadvantage in hiring and retaining qualified employees. Market and Interest Rate Risk Decreasing interest rates could hurt our profits. Our ability to earn a profit, like that of most financial institutions, depends on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as mortgage loans and investments, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. Recently, the FRB has maintained the targeted federal funds rate at record low levels. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans at lower rates. Under those circumstances, we would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on the prepaid loans on investment securities. In addition, our commercial real estate and commercial loans, which carry interest rates that adjust in accordance with changes in the prime rate, will adjust to lower rates. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. Although we have been successful in generating new loans during 2011, the continuation of historically low long-term interest rate levels may cause additional refinancing of commercial real estate and 1-4 family residence loans, which may depress our loan volumes or cause rates on loans to decline. In addition, an increase in the general level of short-term interest rates on variable rate loans may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations or reduce the amount they wish to borrow. Additionally, if short-term market rates rise, in order to retain existing deposit customers and attract new deposit customers we may need to increase rates we pay on deposit accounts. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Regulatory Risks Recently enacted financial reform legislation will, among other things, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, tighten capital standards and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Act. This new law significantly changes the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks such as the Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities (unless such securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a bank holding company with less than $15 billion in assets). It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Regulations may prevent or impair our ability to pay dividends, engage in acquisitions or operate in other ways. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the DFI, FDIC, and the FRB. See Item 1—Regulation and Supervision of this report for information on the regulation and supervision which governs our activities. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit our growth and the return to you, our investors, by restricting certain of our activities, such as: • the payment of dividends to our shareholders, • possible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions, • desired investments, • loans and interest rates on loans, • interest rates paid on deposits, • the possible expansion of branch offices, and • the ability to provide securities or trust services. We also are subject to capitalization guidelines set forth in federal legislation and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that we are found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional risks and expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, are creating additional expense for publicly-traded companies such as TriCo. The application of these laws, regulations and standard may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining 13 Table of Contents high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding management’s required assessment of its internal control over financial reporting and its external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, the members of our board of directors, members of our audit or compensation and management succession committees, our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and certain other executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. It may also become more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, our ability to attract and retain executive officers and qualified board and committee members could be more difficult. We could be aversely affected by new regulations. Federal and state governments and regulators could pass legislation and adopt policies responsive to current credit conditions that would have an adverse affect on the Company and its financial performance. For example, the Company could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. We could face increased deposit insurance costs. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. If the Deposit Insurance Fund suffers further losses, the FDIC could increase assessments rates or impose additional special assessments on the banking industry to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund. The Company’s profitability could be reduced by any increase in assessment rates or special assessments. Risks Related to Growth and Expansion If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. We plan to increase the level of our assets, including our loan portfolio. Our ability to increase our assets depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at favorable rates. We intend to seek additional deposits by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets and by establishing personal relationships with our customers. We cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. Our inability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There are potential risks associated with future acquisitions and expansions. We intend to continue to explore expanding our branch system through opening new bank branches and in-store branches in existing or new markets in northern and central California. In the ordinary course of business, we evaluate potential branch locations that would bolster our ability to cater to the small business, individual and residential lending markets in California. Any given new branch, if and when opened, will have expenses in excess of revenues for varying periods after opening that may adversely affect our results of operations or overall financial condition. In addition, to the extent that we acquire other banks in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. These risks include: • incurring substantial expenses in pursuing potential acquisitions without completing such acquisitions, • losing key clients as a result of the change of ownership, • the acquired business not performing in accordance with our expectations, • difficulties arising in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with our operations, • needing to make significant investments and infrastructure, controls, staff, emergency backup facilities or other critical business functions that become strained by our growth, • management needing to divert attention from other aspects of our business, • potentially losing key employees of the acquired business, • incurring unanticipated costs which could reduce our earnings per share, • assuming potential liabilities of the acquired company as a result of the acquisition, and • an acquisition may dilute our earnings per share, in both the short and long term, or it may reduce our tangible capital ratios. 14 Table of Contents As result of these risks, any given acquisition, if and when consummated, may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, because the consideration for an acquisition may involve cash, debt or the issuance of shares of our stock and may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, existing shareholders may experience dilution in connection with any acquisition. Our growth and expansion may strain our ability to manage our operations and our financial resources. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to execute our corporate growth strategy. In addition to seeking deposit and loan and lease growth in our existing markets, we may pursue expansion opportunities in new markets. Continued growth, however, may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have recently experienced. Our growth may place a strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources and increase demands on our systems and controls. This business growth may require continued enhancements to and expansion of our operating and financial systems and controls and may strain or significantly challenge them. In addition, our existing operating and financial control systems and infrastructure may not be adequate to maintain and effectively monitor future growth. Our continued growth may also increase our need for qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, integrating and retaining such personnel. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired from Citizens and Granite, including the FDIC loss sharing assets associated with Granite, could be inaccurate which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In FDIC-assisted acquisitions that include loss sharing agreements, such as our acquisition of Granite, we may record a loss sharing asset that we consider adequate to absorb future losses which may occur in the acquired loan portfolio. In determining the size of the loss sharing asset, we analyze the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are incorrect, the balance of the FDIC indemnification asset may at any time be insufficient to cover future loan losses, and credit loss provisions may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan losses could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreement on covered assets purchased from the FDIC depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreement. We must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreement as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on covered assets. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. Additionally, Management may decide to forgo loss share coverage on certain assets to allow greater flexibility over the management of certain assets. As of December 31, 2011, $52,135,000, or 2.0%, of the Company’s assets were covered by the aforementioned FDIC loss sharing agreements. Risks Relating to Dividends and Our Common Stock Our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank, we currently depend upon dividends from the Bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to continue to pay dividends in the future will continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to us is subject to the restrictions in the California Financial Code and the regulatory authority of the DFI. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank could have paid $14,073,000 in dividends without the prior approval of the DFI. The amount that the Bank may pay in dividends is further restricted due to the fact that the Bank must maintain a certain minimum amount of capital to be considered a “well capitalized” institution as further described under Item 1—Capital Requirements in this report. From time to time, we may become a party to financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that have the effect of limiting or prohibiting us or the Bank from declaring or paying dividends. Our holding company expenses and obligations with respect to our trust preferred securities and corresponding junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by us may limit or impair our ability to declare or pay dividends. Finally, our ability to pay dividends is also subject to the restrictions of the California Corporations Code. See “Regulation and Supervision – Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions”. 15 Table of Contents Only a limited trading market exists for our common stock, which could lead to price volatility. Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and trading volumes have been modest. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue or that shareholders will be able to sell their shares. Anti-takeover provisions and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Various provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions provide for, among other things: • specified actions that the Board of Directors shall or may take when an offer to merge, an offer to acquire all assets or a tender offer is received, • a shareholder rights plan which could deter a tender offer by requiring a potential acquiror to pay a substantial premium over the market price of our common stock, • advance notice requirements for proposals that can be acted upon at shareholder meetings, and • the authorization to issue preferred stock by action of the board of directors acting alone, thus without obtaining shareholder approval. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either FRB approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the FRB and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a bank holding company such as TriCo. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to shareholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. The amount of common stock owned by, and other compensation arrangements with, our officers and directors may make it more difficult to obtain shareholder approval of potential takeovers that they oppose. As of March 2, 2012, directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 15.83% of our common stock and our ESOP owned approximately 8.48%. Agreements with our senior management also provide for significant payments under certain circumstances following a change in control. These compensation arrangements, together with the common stock and option ownership of our board of directors and management, could make it difficult or expensive to obtain majority support for shareholder proposals or potential acquisition proposals of us that our directors and officers oppose. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired or regulatorily-required levels, or to fund future growth, our board of directors may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of our common stock. The sale of these shares may significantly dilute your ownership interest as a shareholder. New investors in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $41,238,000. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Systems, Accounting and Internal Controls If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We continually review and analyze our internal control over financial reporting for Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance. As part of that process we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control as defined under standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board that require remediation. Material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely basis. Significant deficiency is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for the oversight of the Company’s financial reporting. As a result of weaknesses that may be identified in our internal control, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal and disclosure control. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology and we may suffer an interruption in or breach of the security of those systems. We rely heavily on our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology to conduct our business. We rely on third party services providers to provide many of these systems. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties service providers on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customers, expose us to possible financial liability, lead to additional regulatory scrutiny or require that we make expenditures for remediation or prevention. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure to implement technological advances could negatively impact our business. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to our customers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 