Item 1A. Risk Factors Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in other reports filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or statements made by us, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. From time to time, we may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other public materials. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any documents we incorporate by reference are made pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Words such as, but not limited to, “believes,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding our expansion and development plans, cash needs, cash reserves, liquidity, operating and capital expenses, financing options, expense reductions, operating results, insurance recoveries and pending regulatory matters. Although we believe our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations, and actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from forward-looking statements. This can occur as a result of inaccurate assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause our actual performance to differ materially from that contemplated by such forward-looking statements include, among others, the various risk factors discussed below, in addition to general domestic and international economic and political conditions as well as market conditions in our industry. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides certain “safe harbor” provisions for forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made pursuant to the Act. For more information on the potential factors that could affect our operating results and financial condition in addition to the risks described below, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting Future Operating Results” below and review our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Our pending acquisition of Aztar presents many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of the transaction. On March 13, 2006, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Aztar Corporation to acquire all outstanding shares of Aztar for cash subject to the terms and conditions thereof. The aggregate transaction value, including the refinancing of Aztar debt, is approximately $2.1 billion. The risks we may face in this pending acquisition include: • Although we have a financing commitment to fund the acquisition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the acquisition financing and, because the merger agreement does not contain a financing condition, our failure to close due to our inability to obtain financing could subject us to a claim for substantial damages; • We may not be able to arrange favorable financing terms for debt securities we may seek to issue in the capital markets and, yet, still be obligated to consummate the acquisition. Our financing commitment provides for an interim loan facility if we are unable to issue debt or other securities by the closing. The interim loan facility provides for an increasing interest rate over time to the extent it is not refinanced. If we are not able to refinance the interim loan facility shortly after the closing, the cost of our financing may increase materially. If we issue equity in lieu of some or all of this debt financing, this could dilute existing stockholders; • If we consummate the acquisition, the amount of our indebtedness will increase substantially and may constrain our operations and developments; • Our potential redevelopment of Aztar’s Las Vegas Tropicana site is one of the primary reasons for our pursuing the transaction. We will face significant competition in the Las Vegas market, even relative to the competition we face in other markets. Many of our competitors in Las Vegas are larger and have 12 Table of Contents substantially greater name recognition, marketing resources and access to lower cost sources of financing than we do. Our redevelopment of the Las Vegas Tropicana site would be of a larger scale than any we have undertaken, and would be subject to significant risks and contingencies, including those relating to construction and financing; our financing commitments in connection with the Aztar acquisition do not include funds to develop the Las Vegas Tropicana site. • The combined company’s results of operations may not meet our expectations, which would then make it difficult to service the debt we would incur; • We cannot predict whether we will secure all of the gaming approvals required to complete the acquisition, or the terms and conditions of such approvals, although we are already licensed or have development projects underway in Nevada, Indiana and Missouri; • We may encounter problems integrating the operations and personnel of Aztar; and, • The significantly larger company may strain our management resources. The gaming industry is very competitive and increased competition, including by Native American gaming facilities, could adversely affect our profitability. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate. This competition will intensify if new gaming operations enter our markets or existing competitors expand their operations. Several of our properties are located in jurisdictions that restrict gaming to certain areas and/or are adjacent to states that currently prohibit or restrict gaming operations. Economic difficulties faced by state governments could lead to intensified political pressures for the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where it is currently prohibited. The legalization of gaming in such jurisdictions could be an expansion opportunity for us or a significant threat to us, depending on where the legalization occurs and our ability to capitalize on it. The legalization or authorization of gaming within or near a geographic market area in which any of our properties is located could make it harder for us to attract customers and therefore adversely affect our business and operating results. In particular, our ability to attract customers would be significantly affected by the legalization or expansion of gaming in Alabama, Arkansas, California, Florida, Kentucky, Ohio, Oklahoma or Texas and the development or expansion of Native American casinos in our markets. In the past, legislation to legalize or expand gaming has been introduced in some of these jurisdictions and federal law favors the expansion of Native American gaming. We expect similar proposals will be made in the future and we cannot assure you that such proposals will not be successful. Even in gaming markets where the state governments do not choose to increase the maximum number of gaming licenses available, we face the risk that existing casino licensees will expand their operations and the risk that Native American gaming will continue to grow. Furthermore, Native American gaming facilities frequently operate under regulatory requirements and tax environments that are less stringent than those imposed on state licensed casinos, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. In particular, expanded gaming in California, Oklahoma and Florida would increase the competition faced by Boomtown Reno, Boomtown Bossier City and our Biloxi property, if we decide to build a replacement facility in Biloxi, respectively. In recent years, new Native American casino developments opened in California that compete with the Reno gaming properties and are closer to several primary feeder markets than is our Boomtown Reno property. In 2004, Oklahoma passed a gaming measure that allows Native American tribes to operate electronic gaming machines and some types of card games. The Oklahoma measure also permits three racetracks in Oklahoma to have similar gaming machines. Also in 2004, voters in Broward County, Florida approved the installation of slot machines at four racetracks and jai alai frontons. Because slot machines are now permitted in Broward County, Native American tribes throughout Florida may seek to install slot machines at Native American casinos. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater name recognition, marketing resources and access to lower cost sources of financing than we do. Moreover, consolidation of companies in the gaming industry could increase the concentration of large gaming companies in the markets in which we operate. This may result in our competitors having even greater resources, name recognition and licensing prospects than such 13 Table of Contents competitors currently enjoy. Upon the acquisition of Aztar, we will face significant competition in the Las Vegas and Atlantic City markets, even relative to the competition we face in other markets. Casinos planned for Pennsylvania and New York could provide additional competition for casinos in Atlantic City. We face competition from racetracks that offer slot machines on their properties. We also compete with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as online computer gambling, bingo, pull tab games, card parlors, sports books, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse and dog racing, state sponsored lotteries, video lottery terminals, video poker terminals and, in the future, may compete with gaming at other venues. Furthermore, increases in the popularity of, and competition from, Internet lotteries and other account wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Our pending acquisitions and substantial development obligations in connection with the St. Louis projects and other capital-intensive projects could strain our financial resources and might not provide for a sufficient return, if any. We have entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire Aztar in a transaction which will require us to pay approximately $2.1 billion in order to complete the acquisition, refinance Aztar debt and pay expenses. In addition, we have begun construction of a planned $350 million facility in downtown St. Louis and site development activities at our planned $375 million facility in south St. Louis County. We also are planning significant expansions of our existing facilities at Belterra, Boomtown New Orleans and L’Auberge du Lac. We recently entered into an agreement to purchase the President Casino—St. Louis for approximately $31.5 million, which agreement will be submitted to a U.S. bankruptcy court and is subject to a potential overbid by third parties. We have applied for licenses in Pennsylvania and Chile which, if granted, would add additional casino developments to our obligations. Moreover, we may decide to rebuild our Biloxi facility, which sustained extensive damage as a result of Hurricane Katrina. In the future, following the completion of the Aztar acquisition, we would evaluate the redevelopment of Aztar’s Tropicana Las Vegas site, which we expect would be the largest development project we have undertaken to date. These pending acquisitions and proposed projects could strain our management resources as well as our financial resources. The capital required for these acquisitions and projects will use a substantial part of our currently available cash and borrowing resources. We cannot assure you that any additional financing, if needed, will be available; that, once completed, the revenues generated from our acquired businesses and new developments will be sufficient to pay their expenses; or, even if revenues are sufficient to pay expenses, that the acquired businesses and projects will yield an adequate return on our significant investments. Our acquired businesses and projects may take significantly longer than we expect to generate returns, if any. Many factors could prevent us from completing our construction and development projects as planned, including the escalation of construction costs beyond increments anticipated in our construction budgets. Construction and expansion projects for our properties entail significant risks including: • shortages of materials, including slot machines or other gaming equipment; • shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, excavation, environmental or geological problems; • natural disasters, hurricanes, weather interference, floods, fires, earthquakes or other casualty losses or delays; • unanticipated cost increases or delays in completing the projects; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain or maintain necessary licenses or permits; • changes to plans or specifications; 14 Table of Contents • disputes with contractors; • construction at our existing properties, which could disrupt our operations; and • remediation of environmental contamination at some of our proposed construction sites, which may prove more difficult or expensive than anticipated in our construction budgets. Recent increases in the cost of raw materials for construction, driven by worldwide demand, may cause price increases beyond those anticipated in the budgets for our development projects. Furthermore, the cost of construction in areas of the Gulf Coast that were affected by the hurricanes may rise due to demand for construction material and labor in such locales. Any shortages in materials or labor in such areas could prolong the construction period and increase the cost of our development projects in that area, including the possible replacement of our Biloxi facility. We cannot assure you that any project will be completed on time or within established budgets. Significant delays or cost overruns on our construction projects could significantly reduce any return on our investment in these projects and adversely affect our earnings and financial resources. Construction of our St. Louis development projects, or any other project, exposes us to risks of cost overruns due to typical construction uncertainties associated with any project or changes in the design, plans or concepts of such project. For these and other reasons, construction costs may exceed the estimated cost of completion notwithstanding any guaranteed maximum price construction contracts we may enter into. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have adverse consequences to us; future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and we might have difficulty obtaining additional financing; we may experience adverse effects due to interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations. As of December 31, 2005, we had total indebtedness of approximately $657.8 million (including outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility, our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012, our 8.75% senior subordinated notes due 2013 and other debt) and total shareholders’ equity of approximately $427.8 million. In addition, our credit facility, as amended and restated in December 2005, provides for a $450.0 million revolving credit facility (under which $365.6 million was undrawn and available as of December 31, 2005), to which we expect to have access, subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions to borrowing and satisfaction of certain financial ratios in our indentures. Our substantial development obligations for capital-intensive projects will require us to borrow significant amounts under our credit facility. If we complete our pending acquisition of Aztar, we may refinance all of those obligations and could incur significantly greater indebtedness. While we believe that we have, and will have after the acquisitions of Aztar and The President, sufficient cash and cash-generating resources to meet our debt service obligations during the next 12 months, we cannot assure you that in the future we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through asset sales to meet our long-term debt service obligations. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing without restructuring the covenants in our indebtedness to permit the incurrence of such financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for payments on the debt and related interest, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; • incurring higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates; • limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends; 15 Table of Contents • heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions, or exploring business opportunities; • restricting our activities compared to those of competitors with less debt or greater resources; and • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, with which a failure to comply could result in an event of default. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. In such circumstances, we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt particularly because of our anticipated high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the various agreements governing our debt. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance the senior subordinated notes and our other debt and to service, extend or refinance our credit facility will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our borrowings under our amended credit facility are at variable rates of interest, and to the extent not protected with interest rate hedges, could expose us to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness could increase significantly even though the amount borrowed would remain the same. Additionally, our operation of Casino Magic Argentina exposes us to foreign exchange rate risk from adverse changes in the exchange rate of the dollar to the Argentine Peso. The terms of our credit facility and the indentures governing our subordinated indebtedness impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our credit facility and the indentures governing our 8.25% notes and our 8.75% notes impose various customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries, including among others, reporting covenants, covenants to maintain insurance, comply with laws, covenants to maintain properties and other covenants customary in senior credit financings and indentures. In addition, our credit facility requires that we comply with various financial covenants, including an interest coverage and debt to operating cash flow ratio, and capital spending limits. The financing we incur in connection with the acquisition of Aztar may impose additional or more restrictive covenants. If we utilize the interim loan facility as part of the Aztar acquisition financing, we will be subject to increasing interest rates and more restrictive covenants. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control, including delay in the completion of new projects under construction. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Issues could arise with respect to our insurance policies that could affect our timely recovery of insurance proceeds associated with recent hurricane damage and related business interruption. We maintain an aggregate of $400 million of property insurance, including business interruption coverage, comprised of multiple layers of coverage underwritten by 11 separate carriers or syndicates. Insurance proceeds from the damage to Casino Magic Biloxi, which remains closed as a result of Hurricane Katrina, will represent a significant source of funds for us. We cannot predict whether we will encounter difficulty in collecting on insurance claims we may submit, including claims for business interruption. The magnitude of claims filed and expected to be filed with insurance companies by all affected persons relating to the damage caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita may delay the payment of insurance proceeds or may give rise to disputes and controversies relating to payments in respect of such claims. For example, several of our insurers have recently reserved their rights under the policies to assert, among other things, a flood exclusion and deductibles and other limiting provisions relating to floods. There can be no assurances that we will be fully compensated for all losses sustained due to the closure of the Biloxi facility or that we will be paid on a timely basis. 16 Table of Contents Because of the closure of Casino Magic Biloxi, we have suffered a loss of operating revenues from that facility; changes in the local gaming market could adversely affect our operations in Biloxi if we decide to build a replacement facility. As a result of Hurricane Katrina, the casino barge at Casino Magic Biloxi was declared a total loss and our high-rise hotel was extensively damaged and remains closed. Accordingly, we will suffer the loss of operating revenues and will incur other costs associated with the closure of our Biloxi property. There can be no assurance that we will be fully compensated by our insurance policies. Moreover, we cannot predict how redevelopment efforts will affect the gaming market in the Biloxi area. Increased competition or changes in the local gaming market could adversely affect our operations in Biloxi if we decide to build a replacement facility. Damage and closures caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the New Orleans and Lake Charles areas make our future operating results at Boomtown New Orleans and L’Auberge du Lac less predictable. The damage caused by the hurricanes to the communities surrounding our New Orleans and Lake Charles properties, including damage to roads, utilities, residential and commercial buildings, could adversely affect the local gaming markets. We cannot predict whether some of our competitors will choose to exit the hurricane damaged areas or reenter such markets on a grander scale and rebuild their facilities with significant capital investments. Operations at our facilities have resumed in New Orleans and Lake Charles. However, the rebuilding decisions of our competitors in those areas, including the mid-February reopening of the large land-based casino in downtown New Orleans, and damage to the local infrastructure near Boomtown New Orleans and L’Auberge du Lac make future operating results at such facilities less predictable. We operate in a highly taxed industry and may be subject to higher taxes in the future. In virtually all gaming jurisdictions, state and local governments raise considerable revenues from taxes based on casino revenues and operations. We also pay property taxes, sales and use taxes, payroll taxes, franchise taxes and income taxes. Our profitability depends on generating enough revenues to pay gaming taxes and other largely variable expenses, such as payroll and marketing, as well as largely fixed expenses, such as our property taxes and interest expense. From time to time, state and local governments have increased gaming taxes and such increases can significantly impact the profitability of gaming operations. We cannot assure you that legislatures in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the federal government, will not enact legislation that increases gaming tax rates. Such increases, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We could lose the right to pursue the projects in downtown St. Louis and St. Louis County if we fail to meet the conditions imposed by the Missouri Gaming Commission. We have entered into a redevelopment agreement with the City of St. Louis and a lease and development agreement with St. Louis County in respect of the two St. Louis casinos and mixed-use facilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will complete the projects. The City of St. Louis may terminate the redevelopment agreement and St. Louis County may terminate the St. Louis County lease and development agreement under certain instances. Under both the City of St. Louis redevelopment agreement and the St. Louis County lease and development agreement, if we fail to complete the applicable project in accordance with the terms of the applicable agreement, we will owe monetary penalties and liquidated damages. In September 2004, one of our subsidiaries was selected by the Missouri Gaming Commission to proceed for licensing for the operation of the casinos to be developed in the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County. The issuance of the gaming licenses is subject to, among other requirements, (i) the completion of construction of the facilities and obtaining permits and the necessary land for construction of a road for access to the St. Louis County facilities by certain completion dates, (ii) maintaining an interest coverage ratio (as defined by the Missouri Gaming Commission) of at least 2.0x, (iii) compliance with the statutory requirements regarding 17 Table of Contents riverboat gaming, including the requirement that each casino be located within 1,000 feet of the Missouri River or the Mississippi River and (iv) the suitability of Pinnacle and its key persons as defined by Missouri law. The issuance of the gaming licenses is in the discretion of the Missouri Gaming Commission. Although our subsidiary was selected by the Missouri Gaming Commission to proceed for licensing, we cannot assure you that the licenses will ultimately be granted. The financing incurred to effect the Aztar acquisition may affect our ability to comply with this interest coverage ratio. Management intends to structure such financing so that the Company is in compliance with such interest coverage ratio, but there is no certainty that it can do so. In addition, due to the increased diversity and size of the combined companies, the Company may seek some modification or elimination of the ratio, but there can be no assurance that such modification or elimination would be approved by the Missouri Gaming Commission. In addition, we have the right to terminate the lease and development agreement if certain conditions are not satisfied, including the feasibility of remediation of the environmental condition of the St. Louis County site. Our industry is highly regulated, which makes us dependent on obtaining and maintaining gaming licenses and subjects us to potentially significant fines and penalties. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive state and local regulation. The rules and regulations of the states and local jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries conduct gaming operations require us to hold various licenses, registrations, permits and approvals and to obtain findings of suitability. The various regulatory authorities, including the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Mississippi Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, the Nevada Gaming Commission and the Missouri Gaming Commission, may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend, revoke or fail to renew a license to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authorities. Substantial fines or forfeitures of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved. Upon the completion of the acquisition of Aztar, we will be subject to regulation in additional jurisdictions, including by the New Jersey Casino Control Commission. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming facilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits, approvals and findings of suitability that may be required in the future or that existing ones will be renewed or will not be suspended or revoked. Any expansion of our gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or into new jurisdictions will require various additional licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals of the gaming authorities. The approval process can be time consuming and costly and has no assurance of success. Potential changes in the regulatory environment could harm our business. From time to time, legislators and special interest groups have proposed legislation that would restrict or prevent gaming operations. Any new restriction on or prohibition of our gaming operations could force us to curtail operations and incur significant losses. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us. A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines at our casinos. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer the most popular and up-to-date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers. We believe that one company in particular provides a majority of all slot machines sold in the U.S. 18 Table of Contents We believe that in recent years the prices of new slot machines have escalated faster than the rate of inflation. Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participating lease arrangements in order to acquire the machines. Generally, a participating lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participating lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participating lease costs, it could hurt our profitability. Adverse weather conditions, highway construction, gasoline shortages, and other factors affecting our facilities and the areas in which we operate could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. Our continued success depends upon our ability to draw customers from each of the geographic markets in which we operate. Adverse weather conditions or highway construction can deter our customers from traveling to our facilities or make it difficult for them to frequent our properties. In addition, gasoline shortages or fuel price increases in regions that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. Our dockside gaming facilities in Indiana and Louisiana, as well as any additional riverboat or dockside casino properties that might be developed or acquired, are also subject to risks, in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, which could disrupt our operations. Although none of our vessels leave their moorings in normal operations, there are risks associated with the movement or mooring of vessels on waterways, including risks of casualty due to river turbulence, flooding, collisions with other vessels and severe weather conditions. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, or other catastrophic events, including war and terrorism. Natural disasters such as major hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes could adversely affect our business and operating results. Hurricanes are common to the areas in which our Louisiana and Mississippi properties are located and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. In 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage in the Gulf Coast region. Our Casino Magic Biloxi property was extensively damaged and remains closed and the barge was declared a total loss. Our Boomtown New Orleans casino was forced to close for 34 days as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Hurricane Rita caused significant damage in the Lake Charles, Louisiana area and forced our L’Auberge du Lac resort to close for 16 days in addition to causing physical damage. The closures and disruptions stemming from Hurricane Rita have delayed the process of normalizing operations and procedures at L’Auberge du Lac, which opened in May of 2005. We cannot currently predict the long-term impact that the recent hurricanes or any future natural disasters will have on our ability to maintain our customer base or to sustain our business activities. Catastrophic events such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions) and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which such events may affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any insurance coverage with respect to occurrences of terrorist acts and any losses that could result from these acts. If there is a prolonged disruption at our properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, or if several of our properties simultaneously experience such events, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The loss of management and other key personnel could significantly harm our business. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the efforts and skills of our senior management team, including Daniel R. Lee, our Chairman 19 Table of Contents of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Lee and certain of our other senior managers, we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. If we lose the services of any members of our management team or other key personnel, our business may be significantly impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified senior management personnel. In addition, our officers, directors and key employees also are required to file applications with the gaming authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to be licensed or found suitable by these gaming authorities. If the gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could significantly impair our gaming operations. We experience seasonal fluctuations that significantly impact our quarterly operating results. We experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to seasonality and other factors. Historically, the summer months are our strongest period and the winter months are our slowest period. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. We are, from time to time, during the normal course of operating our businesses, subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses. We face environmental and archaeological regulation of our real estate. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with such laws could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations by government agencies or courts of law or the incurrence of significant costs of remediation of hazardous materials. A material fine or penalty, severe operational or development restriction, or imposition of material remediation costs could adversely affect our business. In addition, the locations of our current or future developments may coincide with sites containing archaeologically significant artifacts, such as Native American remains and artifacts. Federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the protection of such sites may require us to modify, delay or cancel construction projects at significant cost to us. Economic and political conditions, including slowdowns in the economy, and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending may harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts and gaming in general and for the type of amenities we offer. A general downturn in economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences or other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general or regional economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and consumer confidence in the economy, could harm our business. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in travel could significantly harm our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 