Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. We have described below what we currently believe to be the material risks and uncertainties in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also face other risks and uncertainties beyond what is described below. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of securities, including our common stock, could decline significantly. You could lose all or part of your investment. Our substantial funding needs in connection with our development projects, our current expansion projects and other capital-intensive projects, to the extent such projects are undertaken, will require us to raise substantial amounts of funding from outside sources. Currently, the availability of financing is extremely constrained by current disruptions in the credit markets. We are currently engaged in and have planned expansions and development projects that require substantial amounts of capital. We are currently constructing River City, we have begun site work at Sugarcane Bay and we are in the design phase of our Baton Rouge project. These projects have an expected aggregate investment of approximately $1 billion, of which we have invested approximately $183 million through December 31, 2008. While we endeavor to stage development and construction of these projects over several years and we try not to commence major construction without having a reasonable expectation that we will have access to funds to complete it, our proposed projects could strain our financial resources and there is no certainty that such projects will be completed. Under our most restrictive indenture, we are currently permitted to incur up to $350 million in senior indebtedness under a certain debt basket, of which approximately $172 million remains available to be borrowed under our Credit Facility as of March 6, 2009. We expect to supplement borrowings under our Credit Facility with existing cash and cash generated from operations through early 2010 to fund the completion of River City. While we believe we have sufficient funds to complete River City, there is no certainty that this will be the case if there is failure to comply with our debt covenants, or if actual results fall short of our forecasts, among other things. In order to fund most of our projects, we will need to access the capital markets since the capital required for these projects exceeds our available financial resources. As a result of the continued turmoil in the capital markets, the availability of debt financing is extremely constrained, expensive and potentially unavailable. We cannot accurately predict when or if the capital markets will return to more normalized conditions. If the current debt market environment does not improve, we may not be able to raise additional funds in a timely manner, or on acceptable terms, or at all. Inability to access the capital markets, or the necessity to access the capital markets on less-than-favorable terms, may force us to delay, reduce or cancel planned development and expansion projects, sell assets or obtain additional financing on unfavorable terms. For instance, in October 2008, we decided to suspend substantially all development activities in Atlantic City, New Jersey indefinitely due to the current economic downturn, evolving competitive market and the tightening of the credit markets. Our current stock price, along with the stock prices of many public gaming companies, has declined sharply from recent historical levels. We may choose to cancel or delay projects rather than issue equity at these levels. This may impair our growth and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and the returns of investing in our securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future debt or equity offerings may also be limited by our financial condition, results of operations or other factors, such as our credit rating or outlook at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. As we seek financing for our development projects, we will be subject to the risks of rising interest rates and other factors affecting the financial markets. Moreover, if we obtain additional funds by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, dilution to stockholders may occur. In addition, preferred stock could be issued in the future without stockholder approval and the terms of the preferred stock could include dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights that are more favorable than the rights of the holders of our common stock. 6 Table of Contents If we continue with the construction of our current development projects, we may need to amend certain covenants in our Credit Facility or obtain waivers from our lenders. The covenants in our Credit Facility require that we comply with a consolidated leverage ratio, a consolidated interest coverage ratio, and a consolidated senior debt ratio, in each case as defined in our Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2008, we believe we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants in our Credit Facility. Such covenants envisioned completion of River City at an earlier date than such completion is currently expected. As a result, the covenant ratios are scheduled to tighten, even as borrowings grow in order to fund completion. We are required to maintain a rolling four quarter consolidated leverage ratio no greater than 6.50x and 6.00x for the quarterly periods ending March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009, respectively, and 5.50x for each of the quarterly periods ended September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009. Our consolidated leverage ratio for the four quarters ended December 31, 2008 was 5.63x. With continued construction of our current development projects resulting in increased borrowing under our Credit Facility and depending upon generation of cash flow from operations, we may need to or choose to amend these covenants. Our lenders in the Credit Facility, some of whom have been reported in the press as having their own liquidity concerns, may use our potential need for an amendment as a means to seek increased pricing and/or reduced commitments under the Credit Facility. Such amendments may not be available, and if available, could significantly increase the costs of the Credit Facility and may adversely affect our financial results. In the event that we are not able to amend our Credit Facility and we are not in compliance with the financial covenants in future periods, we would be restricted from borrowing funds under the Credit Facility and would need to seek a waiver of all covenant defaults under our Credit Facility. We may not be able to obtain a waiver on acceptable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, any waiver may require us to pay a fee and higher interest rates to our lenders, which could increase our cost of credit and related expenses and adversely affect our financial results. If we fail to obtain a waiver of any violation, the lenders under the Credit Facility could require us to immediately repay all amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if there is a payment acceleration under our Credit Facility, then we would be in default under our senior subordinated notes, which could result in an acceleration of such notes. We do not have adequate liquidity to repay all such indebtedness if there is a payment acceleration under such indebtedness. If the current debt market environment does not improve and we are not able to amend our Credit Facility or obtain a waiver from our lenders, we may have to delay, reduce or cancel our current development projects (such as River City, Sugarcane Bay and Baton Rouge) or sell assets. In addition, we may be forced to use available cash to pay down existing indebtedness. Nonetheless, even if we are forced to cancel our development projects and use available cash to pay down existing indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the covenants in our Credit Facility because it is not certain what our cash flow from operations will be in the future. We may not be able to renew or extend our Credit Facility or enter into a new credit facility in today’s difficult markets. In addition, our ability to renew or extend our Credit Facility or to enter into a new credit facility may be impaired further if current market conditions continue or worsen. If we are able to renew or extend our Credit Facility, it may be on terms substantially less favorable than the current Credit Facility. We may face similar risks with respect to our outstanding bonds. Recent disruptions in the global markets have lead to a scarcity of credit, tighter lending standards and higher interest rates on consumer and business loans. As of December 31, 2008, we had a $625 million Credit Facility that matures in December 2010. Our ability to renew or extend our existing Credit Facility or to enter into a new credit facility to replace the existing credit facility could be impaired if current market conditions continue or worsen. In the current environment, lenders may seek more restrictive lending provisions and higher interest rates that may reduce our borrowing capacity and increase our costs. We can make no assurances that we will be able to enter into a new credit facility or renew or extend our existing Credit Facility, or whether any such credit facility will be available under acceptable terms. Failure to obtain sufficient financing may constrain our ability to operate our business and to continue our development and expansion projects; to the extent such projects are undertaken. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, even though our existing Credit Facility matures in December 2010, if we have not made arrangements to extend the maturity of our Credit Facility or enter into a new credit facility by the end of December 2009, generally accepted accounting principles would require that amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility, which amounts may be substantial, be treated as a current liability at that time, which may lead to a “going concern” or like qualification or exception from our auditors with respect to our 2009 audited financial statements. We are discussing with certain of our lenders, among other things, an extension of the maturity of our Credit Facility, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any such extension, and if we are able to do so, the terms may be materially less favorable than the existing Credit Facility. The bond market, and particularly the market for casino bonds, has deteriorated significantly over the past year. Quotes from reputable banks for our outstanding bond issues are significantly below par, meaning that such bonds, if purchased at such quotes, would offer yields to maturity that are significantly higher than the yields offered at issuance. Our bond issues mature in 2012, 2013 and 2015. If the bond market does not recover prior to the maturity of these bonds, the Company may be forced to refinance some or all of its debt at significantly worse terms than the Company has currently. Although it is several years before these unsecured bonds mature, the Company’s cash flow from operations is unlikely to be sufficient to retire all of such bonds at or prior to their maturity. Failure to obtain new debt on favorable or reasonable terms to replace existing debt could affect the Company’s liquidity and the value of its other securities, including its equity. 7 Table of Contents Our business may be sensitive to reductions in consumers’ discretionary spending as a result of recent downturns in the economy as well as other factors that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. It is logical that the demand for entertainment and leisure activities would tend to be sensitive to consumers’ disposable incomes, and thus can be affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, both of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions including recession, economic slowdown, the current housing crisis and the credit crisis, the potential for bank failures, or higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of our customers or result in fewer patrons visiting our casinos. As a result, we cannot ensure that demand for entertainment and leisure activities will remain constant. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, increasing interest rates, increasing energy costs, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence or significant declines in the stock market could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on entertainment and leisure activities adversely affecting our business, financial and results of operations. A deterioration in operating results could affect our ability to comply with financial covenant ratios in our Credit Facility and to fund our construction projects. The global financial crisis and recession may have an effect on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot accurately predict. The continued credit crisis, recession and related turmoil in the global financial system have had and may continue to have an effect on our business and financial condition. In October 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. (“LCPI”), which is one of the lenders under our Credit Facility, filed for bankruptcy. LCPI had committed $48 million towards our $625 million Credit Facility. We paid appropriate fees for such commitment. LCPI funded its portion of the Credit Facility through September 30, 2008, or approximately $9.6 million of the then outstanding balance of $125 million. Since the beginning of October 2008, when the Company has increased its borrowing under the Credit Facility, LCPI has failed to fund its proportionate share. Management believes that it is unlikely that LCPI will provide its proportionate share if the Company were to draw additional sums under its Credit Facility. Hence, the $625 million Credit Facility is effectively a $586 million Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s actual borrowings were $152 million with LCPI having defaulted on $2.2 million of its obligations. The Company continues to evaluate what remedies it may have, if any, regarding LCPI’s default. As noted elsewhere, the Company’s most restrictive indenture limits our ability to incur senior indebtedness under our Credit Facility to $350 million. As a result, we do not believe that LCPI’s inability to fund future borrowing requests will impact our liquidity. The credit crisis has affected other lenders under our Credit Facility, although none have filed for bankruptcy and all, except for LCPI, have to date continued to fund their obligations. If a large percentage of our lenders file for bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we may not have the liquidity to fund our current projects, to the extent such projects are undertaken. There is no certainty that our lenders will continue to remain solvent or fund their respective obligations under our Credit Facility. The significant distress recently experienced by financial institutions has had and may continue to have far reaching adverse consequences across many industries, including the gaming industry. The ongoing credit and liquidity crisis has greatly restricted the availability of capital and has caused the cost of capital (if available) to be much higher than it has traditionally been. Accessing the capital markets in this environment could increase the costs of our projects, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and our ability or willingness to fund our development projects. All of these effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have adverse consequences to us; future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and we might have difficulty obtaining additional financing; we may experience adverse effects of interest-rate and exchange-rate fluctuations. In June 2007, we issued $385 million aggregate principal amount of 7.50% senior subordinated notes due 2015, using a portion of the proceeds to retire our $275 million term loan within our Credit Facility and a portion to purchase $25 million in principal amount of our outstanding 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012. As of December 31, 2008, we had indebtedness of approximately $943 million, including $152 million drawn on the revolving credit facility, $275 million in aggregate principal amount of our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012, $135 million in aggregate principal amount of our 8.75% senior subordinated notes due 2013, and $385 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% senior subordinated notes due 2015. Our Credit Facility is comprised of a $625 million revolving credit facility, of which we are limited to $350 million under the terms of the indenture governing our 8.75% senior subordinated notes due 2013. As of March 6, 2009, we have drawn $166 million. Another $12.6 million was utilized under various letters of credit. Our substantial development plans for capital-intensive projects will require us to borrow significant amounts under our Credit Facility and, depending on which projects are pursued to completion, may cause us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. 8 Table of Contents While we believe that we have sufficient cash and cash-generating resources to meet our debt service obligations during the next 12 months, it is uncertain in the future whether we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through asset sales to meet our long-term debt service obligations. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing without restructuring the covenants in our existing indebtedness to permit the incurrence of such financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for payments on the debt and related interest, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; • incurring higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates or in the event of refinancing existing debt at higher interest rates; • limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; • heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; • restricting our activities compared to those of competitors with less debt or greater resources; and • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, which a failure to comply with could result in an event of default. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. In such circumstances, it is uncertain that we will be able to refinance any of our debt. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our borrowings under our revolving credit facility are at variable rates of interest, and to the extent not protected with interest rate hedges, could expose us to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates. We currently have no such interest rate hedges. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable-rate indebtedness could increase significantly even though the amount borrowed would remain the same. This may only be partially offset by earning higher rates of interest on our surplus cash balances. Additionally, our operation of Casino Magic Argentina exposes us to foreign exchange rate risk from adverse changes in the exchange rate of the dollar to the Argentine peso. The terms of our credit facility and the indentures governing our subordinated indebtedness impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 7.50%, 8.25% and 8.75% senior subordinated notes impose various customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries, including, among others, reporting covenants, incurrence covenants, covenants restricting our ability to make certain investments or other restricted payments, covenants to maintain insurance and comply with laws, covenants to maintain properties and other covenants customary in senior credit financings and indentures. In addition, our Credit Facility requires that we comply with various financial covenants and capital spending limits, such as receiving an opinion regarding our financial statements without a qualification or exception from our auditors. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control, including delays in the completion of new projects under construction. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Insufficient or lower-than-expected results generated from our new developments and acquired properties may negatively affect the market for our securities. We cannot assure you that, if and once completed, the revenues generated from our new developments and acquired properties will be sufficient to pay related expenses; or, even if revenues are sufficient to pay expenses, the new developments and acquired properties will yield an adequate or expected return on our significant investments. Our projects, if completed, may take significantly longer than we expect to generate returns, if any. Moreover, lower-than-expected results from the opening of a new facility may negatively affect us and the market for our securities and may make it more difficult to raise capital, even as the shortfall increases the need to raise capital. In addition, there is no guarantee that the design of any of our projects, to the extent undertaken, will meet with customers’ approval. It might simply be unappealing, and this could affect our results of operations, our liquidity and the returns on the investment in our securities. 9 Table of Contents Many factors could prevent us from completing our construction and development projects as planned, including the escalation of construction costs beyond increments anticipated in our construction budgets. Construction of major buildings has certain inherent risks, including the risks of fire, structural collapse, human error and electrical, mechanical and plumbing malfunction. Several of the buildings being built by us entail additional risks related to heights and cranes. Our development and expansion projects also entail significant risks, including: • shortages of materials; • shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, excavation, environmental or geological problems; • natural disasters, hurricanes, weather interference, floods, fires, earthquakes or other casualty losses or delays; • unanticipated cost increases or delays in completing the projects; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain or maintain necessary licenses or permits; • changes to plans or specifications; • disputes with contractors; • construction at our existing properties, which could disrupt our operations; • remediation of environmental contamination at some of our proposed construction sites, which may prove more difficult or expensive than anticipated in our construction budgets; • failure to obtain necessary gaming regulatory approvals and licenses, or failure to obtain such approvals and licenses on a timely basis; and • requirements or government-established “goals” concerning union labor or requiring that a portion of the project expenditures be through companies controlled by specific ethnic or gender groups, goals that may not be obtainable, or may only be obtainable at additional project cost. Increases in the cost of raw materials for construction, driven by worldwide demand, higher labor and construction costs and other factors, may cause price increases beyond those anticipated in the budgets for our development projects. Escalating construction costs may cause us to modify the design and scope of projects from those initially contemplated or cause the budgets for those projects to be increased. We generally carry insurance to cover certain liabilities related to construction, but not all risks are covered and it is uncertain whether such insurance will provide sufficient payment in a timely fashion even for those risks that are insured. It is uncertain whether any project will be completed on time or within established budgets. Significant delays or cost overruns related to our construction projects could significantly reduce any return on our investment in these projects and adversely affect our earnings and financial resources. There are also certain tax incentives for construction in hurricane-damaged areas that require completion of new facilities by certain dates. There is no certainty that such dates will be met. Construction of our development projects exposes us to risks of cost overruns due to typical construction uncertainties associated with any project or changes in the designs, plans or concepts of such projects. For these and other reasons, construction costs may exceed the estimated cost of completion notwithstanding the existence of any guaranteed maximum price construction contracts. In November 2007, we entered into a construction contract for our Sugarcane Bay project. Pursuant to the terms of the contract, the general contractor was required to submit a proposal to us for the guaranteed maximum price. In accordance with the contract, in the event that we and the general contractor are unable to agree upon the guaranteed maximum price, then we can either change the scope and scale of the work or terminate the contract. We are currently in discussions with the contractor regarding such proposed guaranteed maximum price. We may seek to terminate such contract and seek a new general contractor through competitive bidding. In August 2008, we entered into a guaranteed maximum price agreement for the first phase of our River City project, including the casino facility. We have not yet entered into a guaranteed maximum price agreement for our Baton Rouge project. 10 Table of Contents If we determine to proceed with our Atlantic City project, it will have many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated from its development. In November 2006, we completed the purchase of the entities that own the Atlantic City site. Our plans to construct a major facility along Atlantic City’s Boardwalk are on indefinite hold in light of the current economic downturn, evolving competitive market and the tightening of the credit markets. To the extent we proceed with developing the site, the risks we may face in the development of our Atlantic City site include: • We will face significant competition in the Atlantic City market. There are numerous casinos already in Atlantic City and casinos are now operating in Pennsylvania, Delaware and New York. Legalization or expansion of gaming in other nearby jurisdictions could provide additional competition for casinos in Atlantic City, including the recent approval by Maryland voters of 15,000 slot machines at each of five locations in Maryland. In addition, the city of Atlantic City has issued a request for proposals for development of one or more casinos on Bader Field, a municipally owned, defunct airport that is located alongside the major feeder routes into Atlantic City. Development of casinos on Bader Field may materially reduce visitation to Atlantic City’s Boardwalk area; • It will be subject to significant risks and contingencies, including those relating to construction and financing. We may not complete the development on time, within budget, or at all, which could exacerbate the risks associated with such development; • Completion of the Atlantic City project would likely involve the incurrence of substantial amounts of additional indebtedness, which will increase the risks associated with our current level of indebtedness. Until the development is complete, a process that is estimated to take several years, we will not have any revenue relative to this investment. Accordingly, during construction, we will incur substantial amounts of indebtedness for the development without additional revenue to contribute to the servicing of such indebtedness until the new facility opens; • If we complete the development, the results of operations at our new Atlantic City casino may not meet our expectations or those of investors in our securities; and • We must obtain approvals (including a license) from the New Jersey Casino Control Commission and other governmental authorities in order to operate the casino and it is uncertain whether such approvals will be obtained. The gaming industry is very competitive and increased competition, including by Native American gaming facilities, could adversely affect our profitability. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate. This competition will intensify if new gaming operations enter our markets or existing competitors expand their operations. Further, several of our properties are located in jurisdictions that restrict gaming to certain areas and/or are adjacent to states that currently prohibit or restrict gaming operations. Economic difficulties faced by state governments could lead to intensified political pressures for the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where it is currently prohibited. The legalization of gaming in such jurisdictions could be an expansion opportunity for us or a significant threat to us, depending on where the legalization occurs and our ability to capitalize on it. In particular, our ability to attract customers to our existing casinos would be significantly affected by the legalization or expansion of gaming in Texas, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Oklahoma, and California and the development or expansion of Native American casinos in our markets. The value of our site or potential casinos in Atlantic City has been affected and would be affected by the legislation or expansion of casino gaming in Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York, northern New Jersey or Connecticut. In the past, legislation to legalize or expand gaming has been introduced in some of these jurisdictions and federal law favors the expansion of Native American gaming. In 2006, legislation to add more than 30,000 slot machines at seven racetracks in Ohio was rejected by the voters of Ohio. In 2007, voters in West Virginia approved table games at racetracks in the Ohio, Hancock and Kanawha counties, but rejected a similar proposal in Jefferson County. In 2007, Indiana approved casinos with 2,000 slot machines at each of two racetracks in the Indianapolis area, both of which are now open. In 2008, New York approved a significant reduction in its gaming tax rate as a specific inducement for a large casino hotel in the Catskills region. In 2008, Maryland voters approved a state constitutional amendment allowing 15,000 slot machines total in five locations. We expect similar proposals to legalize or expand gaming will be made in the future in various states and it is uncertain whether such proposals will be successful. Even in gaming markets where the state governments do not choose to increase the maximum number of gaming licenses available, we face the risk that existing casino licensees will expand their operations and the risk that Native American gaming will continue to grow. Furthermore, Native American gaming facilities frequently operate under regulatory requirements and tax environments that are less stringent than those imposed on state-licensed casinos, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater name recognition and marketing resources than we do. Moreover, consolidation of companies in the gaming industry could increase the concentration of large gaming companies in the markets in which we operate. This may result in our competitors having even greater resources and name recognition than such competitors currently enjoy. We face competition from racetracks that offer slot machines. We also compete with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as bingo, pull-tab games, card parlors, sports books, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse and dog racing, state-sponsored lotteries, video lottery terminals, video poker terminals and, in the future, may compete with gaming at other venues. Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are often illegal under federal law but operate from overseas locations, and are nevertheless sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. There are also proposals that would specifically legalize internet gaming under federal law. 11 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may remain volatile, and the value of our common stock may decline as a result of this volatility. The market price of our common stock has been, and may be in the future, subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: • general conditions in the economy, including the recent economic slowdown, the current housing crisis and the credit crisis, the potential for bank failures, or higher fuel or other transportation costs; • the tightening of the credit markets and our ability to enter into new credit facilities; • the receptiveness of the capital markets to any future financings; • variations in quarterly operating results; • lower-than-expected results from the openings of our new facilities; • announcements, by us or our competitors, of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • speculation about takeover or acquisition activity; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in recommendations or financial estimates by securities analysts and changes in accounting principles by the accounting industry; • loss or threat of loss of material gaming licenses or failure to obtain new approvals and licenses required for our projects; • the granting of new gaming licenses to our competitors, whether in our markets or in adjacent gaming markets; • conditions and trends in the gaming industry, including new state regulation or taxes enacted by state legislatures; and • the other risk factors described in or referred to in this “Risk Factors” section as well as the “Private Securities Litigation Reform Act” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which are often unrelated to the performance or condition of particular companies. Such broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company. If we become subject to this kind of litigation in the future, it could result in substantial litigation costs, damage awards against us, and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Damage and closures caused by hurricanes in the Gulf Region make our results less predictable. The damage caused by the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast, including damage to roads, utilities and residential and commercial buildings, has affected the local gaming markets. Some of our competitors have chosen to exit the hurricane-damaged areas following hurricanes and some have chosen to reenter such markets on a grander scale and rebuild their facilities with significant capital investments. In 2008, hurricanes caused closures, impairment of operations and some damage on two key weekends. As a result, operating results at casinos in the region have been less predictable. In addition, the Company’s ability to secure adequate insurance coverage may present additional risks. Issues with respect to our insurance policies could affect our recovery of further insurance proceeds associated with the 2005 hurricane damage and related business interruption. We are currently in litigation with one remaining insurance carrier, RSUI Indemnity Company (which has two insurance policies), regarding our right to recover further insurance proceeds from the damage to Casino Magic Biloxi, which was closed as a result of Hurricane Katrina and subsequently sold. In April 2006, we filed a claim for property damage and business interruption incurred at the Casino Magic Biloxi site as a result of Hurricane Katrina. In August 2006, we filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada against three of our insurance carriers, Allianz Global Risks US Insurance Company, Arch Specialty Insurance Company and RSUI Indemnity Company, related to such losses. We have received $192 million to date on the claim. We continue to litigate with the one remaining defendant insurance carrier, RSUI Indemnity Company, regarding our right to recover further insurance proceeds with respect to our claim. It is uncertain whether our damage claim will be sustained or whether we will be fully compensated for all losses sustained due to the closure of the Biloxi facility or whether we will be paid on a timely basis. We have preserved all of our rights to pursue our full claim, plus interest, bad-faith and punitive damages against the remaining insurance carrier that has withheld payment. 12 Table of Contents Natural disasters have made it more challenging for us to obtain similar levels of Weather Catastrophe Occurrence/Named Windstorm, Flood and Earthquake insurance coverage for our properties compared to the levels before the 2005 hurricane. Because of significant loss experience caused by hurricanes and other natural disasters over the last several years, a number of insurance companies have stopped writing insurance in Class 1 hurricane areas, including Louisiana and Mississippi. Others have significantly limited the amount of coverage they will write in these markets and have dramatically increased the premiums charged for this coverage. As a result, our policy limits for Weather Catastrophe Occurrences/Named Windstorms as well as other losses are significantly less than the policy limits we had during the 2005 hurricane season. During that period, our aggregate Weather Catastrophe Occurrence coverage was $400 million per occurrence. Our coverage for a Named Windstorm today is $200 million per occurrence, with a deductible of 5% of stated values. Above this $200 million limit, we have an additional $200 million of coverage per occurrence, but excluding Named Windstorms. If any of our properties suffer a Named Windstorm, any damages in excess of the coverage limits will likely be borne by us. In addition, as a result of the worldwide economic conditions, there has been uncertainty as to the viability of certain insurance companies. While the Company believes that its remaining insurance companies will remain solvent, there is no certainty that this will be the case. We operate in a highly taxed industry and may be subject to higher taxes in the future. In gaming jurisdictions in which we operate, state and local governments raise considerable revenues from taxes based on casino revenues and operations. We also pay property taxes, admission taxes, sales and use taxes, payroll taxes, franchise taxes and income taxes. Our profitability depends on generating enough revenues to pay gaming taxes and other largely variable expenses, such as payroll and marketing, as well as largely fixed expenses, such as our property taxes and interest expense. From time to time, state and local governments have increased gaming taxes and such increases can significantly impact the profitability of gaming operations. We cannot assure you that governments in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the federal government, will not enact legislation that increases gaming tax rates. We may not meet the conditions for the maintenance of the licenses that we plan to utilize for our Sugarcane Bay and Baton Rouge projects. In 2006, we completed the acquisition from Harrah’s of two entities that own certain Lake Charles, Louisiana gaming assets, including two licensed riverboat casinos, each with an associated gaming license. One of these licenses is planned to be used in connection with our planned Sugarcane Bay facility and the other license is anticipated to be used in connection with our planned Baton Rouge facility. The Louisiana Gaming Control Board (the “LGCB”) has established numerous conditions for use of each of these licenses, which, if not satisfied, could result in forfeiture of such licenses. While we intend to fulfill all conditions set by the LGCB, it is uncertain whether we will be able to do so or that the LGCB would agree to make any amendments that might be necessary. Forfeiture of one or both licenses could adversely affect our expansion plans for the Louisiana gaming market. The LGCB recently granted two extensions related to our Sugarcane Bay and Baton Rouge projects, but there can be no assurance that additional extensions, if required, will be granted. We could lose the right to open our River City project if we fail to meet the conditions imposed by the Missouri Gaming Commission. One of our subsidiaries was selected by the Missouri Gaming Commission (the “MGC”) to proceed for licensing for the operation of the River City casino. The issuance of the operating license is in the discretion of the MGC. Although our subsidiary was selected by the MGC to proceed for licensing, it is uncertain whether the license will ultimately be granted. We have invested a significant amount of capital in this project, which may be lost or difficult to recoup in the event that the license is not ultimately granted to us by the MGC. In connection with respect to the River City casino, we have entered into a lease and development agreement with the St. Louis County Port Authority (the “SLCPA”). The SLCPA may terminate the lease and development agreement under certain instances. For example, if we fail to complete the River City project in accordance with its terms, we will owe monetary penalties and liquidated damages and could lose the right to open such project, irrespective of the substantial investment made to date. 13 Table of Contents Our industry is highly regulated, which makes us dependent on obtaining and maintaining gaming licenses and subjects us to potentially significant fines and penalties. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive state and local regulation. The statutes, rules and regulations of the states and local jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries conduct gaming operations require us to hold various licenses, registrations, permits and approvals and to obtain findings of suitability. The various regulatory authorities, including the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Missouri Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, the Nevada Gaming Commission, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, and the Government of the Province of Neuquén, Argentina may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend, revoke or fail to renew a license to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authorities. Substantial fines or forfeitures of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming facilities. However, it is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits, approvals and findings of suitability that may be required in the future or that existing ones will be renewed or will not be suspended or revoked. Any expansion of our gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or into new jurisdictions may require various additional licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals of the gaming authorities. The approval process can be time consuming and costly and has no assurance of success. Potential changes in the regulatory environment could harm our business. From time to time, legislators and special-interest groups have proposed legislation that would restrict or prevent gaming operations. Changes in regulations affecting the casino business can affect our existing or proposed operations. For example, various jurisdictions such as Illinois, Delaware and Neuquén, Argentina have restricted smoking on the casino floor. Such restrictions resulted in decreases in gaming revenues. Other restrictions or prohibitions on our current or future gaming operations could curtail our operations and could result in decreases in income. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us. A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines at our casinos. It is important for competitive reasons that we offer the most popular and up-to-date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers. In recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participating lease arrangements. Generally, a participating lease is substantially more expensive over the long-term than the cost to purchase a new machine. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines, slot machine systems, or enter into participating lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participating lease costs, it could adversely affect our profitability. Adverse weather conditions, highway construction, gasoline shortages and other factors affecting our facilities and the areas in which we operate could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. Our continued success depends upon our ability to draw customers from each of the geographic markets in which we operate. Adverse weather conditions or highway construction can deter our customers from traveling to our facilities or make it difficult for them to frequent our properties. In addition, gasoline shortages or fuel price increases in regions that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. We believe that the vast majority of our customers drive to our properties. Our dockside gaming facilities in Indiana, Louisiana and Missouri, as well as any additional riverboat or dockside casino properties that might be developed or acquired, are also subject to risks, in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, which could disrupt our operations. Although none of our vessels leave their moorings in normal operations, there are risks associated with the movement or mooring of vessels on waterways, including risks of casualty due to river turbulence, flooding, collisions with other vessels and severe weather conditions. We have been notified that The Admiral Riverboat Casino shall not be used to carry passengers beyond July 19, 2010 without replacement, dry-docking, or specific approval. As a result, we cannot assure you we will be able to re-certify The Admiral Riverboat Casino. We own a jet airplane, two seaplanes and numerous limousines and other vehicles that are used to transport customers to our casinos and for other corporate purposes. There are liabilities and other risks included in such transportation operations. 14 Table of Contents Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, or other catastrophic events, including war and terrorism. Natural disasters such as major hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes could adversely affect our business and operating results. Hurricanes are common to the areas in which our Louisiana properties are located and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. Atlantic City is on a barrier island and could also be susceptible to hurricanes and storm surges. River City is located in an area along the Mississippi that has historically experienced flooding. Although its foundation is built up to be above historical flooding levels, there is no certainty that this will be sufficient in future floods. In 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage in the Gulf Coast region. Our Biloxi facility was destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. Our Boomtown New Orleans casino was forced to close for 34 days as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Hurricane Rita caused significant damage in the Lake Charles, Louisiana area and forced our L’Auberge du Lac resort to close for 16 days in addition to causing physical damage. In the third quarter of 2008, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which struck during two key weekends, affected our Louisiana operations and our Texas customer base. Hurricane Ike also caused flooding in St. Louis, necessitating the temporary closure of The Admiral Riverboat Casino, and caused a power outage over the course of two days at our Belterra Casino Resort. We cannot accurately predict the long-term effect that the recent hurricanes or any future natural disasters will have on our ability to maintain our customer base or to sustain our business activities. Catastrophic events such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions) and tourism. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which such events may affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or choose to purchase any insurance coverage with respect to occurrences of terrorist acts and any losses that could result from these acts. If there is a prolonged disruption at our properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, or if several of our properties simultaneously experience such events, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The loss of management and other key personnel could significantly harm our business. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the efforts and skills of our senior executives and management team, including Daniel R. Lee, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Lee and certain of our other senior executives and managers, we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. If we lose the services of any members of our management team or other key personnel, our business may be significantly impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior executive and management personnel or attract additional qualified senior executive and management personnel. In addition, our officers, directors and key employees also are required to file applications with the gaming authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to be licensed or found suitable by these gaming authorities. If the gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could significantly impair our gaming operations. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. From time to time during the normal course of operating our businesses, we are subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might also be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses. We face environmental and archaeological regulation of our real estate. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental statutes and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with such laws could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations by government agencies or courts of law or the incurrence of significant costs of remediation of hazardous materials. A material fine or penalty, severe operational or development restriction, or imposition of material remediation costs could adversely affect our business. In addition, the locations of our current or future developments may coincide with sites containing archaeologically significant artifacts, such as Native American remains and artifacts. Federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the protection of such sites may require us to modify, delay or cancel construction projects at significant cost to us. We face risks associated with growth and acquisitions. We regularly evaluate opportunities for growth through development of gaming operations in existing or new markets, through acquiring other gaming entertainment facilities or through redeveloping our existing facilities. For example, we acquired the Atlantic City site and entities that hold two riverboats and gaming operations to be used in our Sugarcane Bay and Baton Rouge projects. The expansion of our operations, whether through acquisitions, development or internal growth, could divert management’s attention and could also cause us to incur substantial costs, including legal, professional and consulting fees. It is uncertain that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Additionally, it is uncertain that we will receive gaming or other necessary licenses or governmental approvals for our new projects or that gaming will be approved in jurisdictions where it is not currently approved. Further, we may not have adequate financing for such opportunities on acceptable terms. 15 Table of Contents Private Securities Litigation Reform Act The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides certain “safe harbor” provisions for forward-looking statements. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC or statements made by us, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. From time to time, we may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in our other periodic reports on Form 10-Q, Form 8-K, press releases and other materials released to the public. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any documents we incorporate by reference are made pursuant to the Act. Words such as, but not limited to, “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “is fairly confident” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements, which may include, without limitation, adequacy of resources to fund development and expansion projects, liquidity, financing options, including the state of the capital markets and our ability to access the capital markets, the state of the credit markets and our ability to amend the terms of our credit facility, the state of the economy, anticipated completion and opening schedules of various projects, expansion plans, construction schedules, cash needs, cash reserves, operating and capital expenses, expense reductions, expected receipts of insurance proceeds including the amount of any such recovery and sufficiency of such coverage, anticipated marketing costs at various projects, the future outlook of Pinnacle and the gaming industry, the ability to meet the Consolidated Coverage Ratio required by the indentures of our senior subordinated indebtedness, our continuing exclusivity rights to operate casinos in Neuquén, Argentina after 2016, operating results and pending regulatory and legal matters, are all subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by us. This can occur as a result of inaccurate assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause our actual performance to differ materially from that contemplated by such forward-looking statements include, among others, the various risk factors discussed above, in addition to general domestic and international economic and political conditions as well as market conditions in our industry. For more information on the potential factors that could affect our operating results and financial condition in addition to the risk factors described above, review our other filings (other than any portion of such filings that are furnished under applicable SEC Rules rather than filed) with the SEC. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 