Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. We have described below what we currently believe to be the material risks and uncertainties in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also face other risks and uncertainties beyond what is described below. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of securities, including our common stock, could decline significantly. You could lose all or part of your investment. 6 Table of Contents Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in consumers’ discretionary spending as a result of downturns in the economy or other changes we cannot accurately predict. Demand for entertainment and leisure activities is sensitive to consumers’ disposable incomes, and thus demand can be affected by changes in the economy that we cannot accurately predict. Perceived or actual unfavorable changes in general economic conditions including recession, economic slowdown, continued high unemployment levels, the current housing and credit crises, the potential for bank failures, higher fuel or other transportation costs, and changes in consumer confidence, may reduce disposable income of our customers or result in fewer patrons visiting our casinos. As a result, we cannot ensure that demand for entertainment and leisure activities will not be adversely affected. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, potentially rising interest rates, increasing energy costs, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence or significant declines in the stock market could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on entertainment and leisure activities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A deterioration in operating results could affect our ability to comply with financial covenant ratios and “in-balance” requirements in our amended and restated credit facility and to fund our construction projects. Our recent results, particularly from the fourth quarter of 2009, show reduced operating results at certain of our properties. This may indicate a decline in consumer spending in the regional markets in which we operate. Our substantial funding needs in connection with our development projects and other capital-intensive projects will require us to raise substantial amounts of funding from outside sources and/or conduct asset sales. We are currently engaged in and have development projects and planned expansions that require substantial amounts of capital. We have completed construction of our River City casino, we have begun preliminary work on Sugarcane Bay at L’Auberge du Lac and we are in the design phase of our Baton Rouge project. The Sugarcane Bay at L’Auberge du Lac and Baton Rouge projects have an expected aggregate investment of over $565 million, of which $476 million remains to be invested as of December 31, 2009. Additional amounts are also needed to fund the initial operations of these development projects once they open. While we endeavor to stage development and construction of these projects over several years and we try not to commence major construction of a project without having a reasonable expectation that we will have access to funds to complete it, our proposed projects could strain our financial resources and there is no certainty that such projects will be completed. We will need to access the capital markets or otherwise obtain additional funds through asset sales or other means to complete our development projects other than River City, and fund initial operations once these projects open since the funds required for those projects exceed our anticipated financial resources. Those additional funds would be needed along with existing cash resources, funds available under our amended and restated credit facility and anticipated cash flows from operations. In the event that our future cash flows from operations do not match the levels we currently anticipate, whether due to downturns in the economy or otherwise, we would need to raise additional funds beyond the amounts we currently anticipate needing to raise. In addition, our amended and restated credit facility provides that we cannot spend more than $25 million in construction and development costs on the Baton Rouge project after January 1, 2010 unless we obtain at least $100 million of additional funding through asset sales, receipt of insurance proceeds, tax refunds, litigation settlements, certain dividends and other distributions from our unrestricted subsidiaries and/or gross proceeds received by us from the issuance and sale of non-debt capital. Moreover, additional funds would be needed for our expansion projects. We do not know when or if the capital markets will permit us to raise additional funds in a timely manner, or on acceptable terms, or at all. Similar considerations apply to any effort to sell assets that we may undertake given current market conditions where asset prices have fallen from recent higher levels. Our current stock price, along with the stock prices of many public gaming companies, has declined sharply from historical levels which makes issuing equity to fund these projects less attractive. Inability to access the capital markets, or the necessity to access the capital markets on less-than-favorable terms, may force us to delay, reduce or cancel our development projects or obtain additional financing on unfavorable terms. Similarly, inability to sell assets, or the necessity to sell assets on less-than-favorable terms, may force us to delay, reduce or cancel our development projects or obtain additional financing on unfavorable terms. This may impair our growth and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and the returns of investing in our securities. 7 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future debt or equity offerings may also be limited by our financial condition, results of operations or other factors, such as our credit rating or outlook at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. As we seek additional financing for our development projects, we will be subject to the risks of rising interest rates and other factors affecting the financial markets. In particular, the availability of credit from financial institutions that typically provide capital has been adversely affected by the financial distress of several larger, highly leveraged companies in the gaming industry. If we fail to refinance our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012 on a timely basis, amounts outstanding under our amended and restated credit agreement may be treated as a current liability on our year-end 2010 balance sheet, which could have adverse consequences. The amended and restated credit facility matures and all amounts outstanding thereunder are due and payable in full on March 31, 2014; provided that such date will be accelerated to September 30, 2011 if any portion of our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012 is outstanding on September 30, 2011. We currently have $200 million in aggregate principal amount of our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012 outstanding. In addition, because the maturity of our amended and restated credit facility may be accelerated to September 30, 2011, if we have not repurchased or redeemed our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012 outstanding by the time we file our annual report on Form 10-K for the 2010 fiscal year, generally accepted accounting principles would require that amounts outstanding under the amended and restated credit facility, which amounts may be substantial, be treated as a current liability at the time our next Form 10-K is filed. If our outstanding borrowings under our amended and restated credit facility at the 2010 year-end were substantial, treating them as a current liability may lead to our receiving an audit report with respect to our 2010 audited financial statements that may not satisfy the requirements of our amended and restated credit facility and therefore might result in a default under our amended and restated credit facility that potentially could lead to an acceleration of our credit facility borrowings and then cross-defaults under our indentures. The bond market, and particularly the market for bonds issued by casino companies, has been unpredictable and volatile over the past 12 months. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase or redeem our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012 in their entirety by the time that we file our next Form 10-K on favorable terms or at all. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could adversely affect our financial health; future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and we might have difficulty obtaining additional financing; we may experience adverse effects of interest-rate and exchange-rate fluctuations. As of December 31, 2009, we had indebtedness of approximately $1,063 million. Our amended and restated credit facility consists of a $375 million revolving credit facility. Borrowings of approximately $100 million and letters of credit of $12.6 million were outstanding as of February 26, 2010 under our amended and restated credit facility. Our substantial development plans for capital-intensive projects will require us to borrow significant amounts under our credit facility and, depending on which projects are pursued to completion, may cause us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. 8 Table of Contents While we believe that we have sufficient cash and cash-generating resources to meet our debt service obligations during the next 12 months, it is uncertain in the future whether we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through asset sales to meet our long-term debt service obligations. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing without restructuring the covenants in our existing indebtedness to permit the incurrence of such financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for payments on the debt and related interest, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; • causing us to incur higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates or in the event of refinancing existing debt at higher interest rates; • limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; • increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business or our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt or greater resources; and • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, which a failure to comply with could result in an event of default. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before its maturity. In such circumstances, it is uncertain that we will be able to refinance any of our debt. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our borrowings under our revolving amended and restated credit facility are at variable rates of interest, and to the extent not protected with interest rate hedges, could expose us to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates. We currently have no such interest rate hedges. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable-rate indebtedness could increase significantly even though the amount borrowed would remain the same. This may only be partially offset by earning higher rates of interest on our surplus cash balances. Additionally, our Argentina operations expose us to foreign exchange rate risk from adverse changes in the exchange rate of the dollar to the Argentina peso. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us. Our credit facility and the indentures governing our senior and senior subordinated notes impose various customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries. The restrictions that are imposed under these debt instruments include, among other obligations, limitations on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt; • make payments on subordinated obligations; • make dividends or distributions and repurchase stock; • make investments; • grant liens on our property to secure debt; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; 9 Table of Contents • sell assets or enter into mergers or consolidations; • sell equity interests in our subsidiaries; • create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; • change the nature of our lines of business; • make capital expenditures; • designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries; and • amend or modify our subordinated indebtedness without obtaining consents from the holders of our senior indebtedness. Our credit facility imposes various customary affirmative covenants on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including among others, reporting covenants, covenants to maintain insurance, comply with laws, maintain properties and other covenants customary in senior credit financings of this type. In addition, our credit facility requires that we comply with various restrictive maintenance financial covenants, including an interest coverage ratio, a debt to annualized Adjusted EBITDA ratio, and capital spending limits. Furthermore, the covenants in our credit facility include a requirement that an “in-balance” test be satisfied for each $75 million development project other than River City. In general, the “in-balance” test requires that, as of the date of determination prior to commencement of construction, as such term is defined in our credit facility, the project sources exceed the project uses for such project and for all other projects for which construction has commenced for the period from such date of determination through the date six full months after the scheduled opening date of such project. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the “in-balance” test for each of our projects on the applicable determination date. In addition, our amended and restated credit facility provides that we cannot spend more than $25 million in construction and development costs on the Baton Rouge project after January 1, 2010 unless we obtain at least $100 million of additional funding through asset sales, receipt of insurance proceeds, tax refunds, litigation settlements, certain dividends and other distributions from our unrestricted subsidiaries and/or gross proceeds received by us from the issuance and sale of non-debt capital. Our ability to comply with the covenants contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control, including delay in the completion of new projects under construction. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness, including our credit facility and the indentures governing the existing senior and senior subordinated notes, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition and our ability to comply with the conditions of the Louisiana Gaming Control Board in connection with our Sugarcane Bay and Baton Rouge projects. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on any of those debt instruments. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be realized, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, as we undertake substantial new developments or facility renovations or if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements and our debt service requirements may increase significantly. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and our existing senior and senior subordinated notes, on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all, particularly because of our anticipated high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our existing indebtedness, and to service, extend or refinance our credit facility will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Insufficient or lower-than-expected results generated from our new developments and acquired properties may negatively affect the market for our securities; our new properties may compete with our existing properties. We cannot assure you that, if and once completed, the revenues generated from our new developments and acquired properties will be sufficient to pay related expenses; or, even if revenues are sufficient to pay expenses, the new developments and acquired properties will yield an adequate or expected return on our significant investments. Our projects, if completed, may take significantly longer than we expect to generate returns, if any. Moreover, lower-than-expected results from the opening of a new facility may negatively affect us and the market for our securities and may make it more difficult to raise capital, even as the shortfall increases the need to raise capital. We are currently constructing or developing several new facilities, with our River City facility scheduled to open in March 2010. As our new properties open, they may compete with our existing properties. For example, our River City casino is located approximately 12 miles from our Lumière Place facility and may divert business away from such location, which would have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, our Sugarcane Bay at L’Auberge du Lac project is expected to be located adjacent to L’Auberge du Lac. Many factors could prevent us from completing our construction and development projects as planned, including the escalation of construction costs beyond increments anticipated in our construction budgets. Construction of major buildings has certain inherent risks, including the risks of fire, structural collapse, human error and electrical, mechanical and plumbing malfunction. Several of the projects we intend to build or are now building entail additional risks related to heights and cranes. Our development and expansion projects also entail significant risks, including: • shortages of materials; • shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, excavation, environmental or geological problems; • natural disasters, hurricanes, weather interference, floods, fires, earthquakes or other casualty losses or delays; • unanticipated cost increases or delays in completing the projects; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain or maintain necessary licenses or permits; • changes to plans or specifications; • disputes with contractors; • construction at our existing properties, which could disrupt our operations; • remediation of environmental contamination at some of our proposed construction sites, which may prove more difficult or expensive than anticipated in our construction budgets; 11 Table of Contents • failure to obtain and maintain necessary gaming regulatory approvals and licenses, or failure to obtain such approvals and licenses on a timely basis; and • requirements or government-established “goals” concerning union labor or requiring that a portion of the project expenditures be through companies controlled by specific ethnic or gender groups, goals that may not be obtainable, or may only be obtainable at additional project cost. Increases in the cost of raw materials for construction, driven by worldwide demand, higher labor and construction costs and other factors, may cause price increases beyond those anticipated in the budgets for our development projects. Escalating construction costs may cause us to modify the design and scope of projects from those initially contemplated or cause the budgets for those projects to be increased. We generally carry insurance to cover certain liabilities related to construction, but not all risks are covered and it is uncertain whether such insurance will provide sufficient payment in a timely fashion even for those risks that are insured. It is uncertain whether any project will be completed on time or within established budgets. Significant delays or cost overruns related to our construction projects could significantly reduce any return on our investment in these projects and adversely affect our earnings and financial resources. There are also certain tax incentives for construction in hurricane-damaged areas that require completion of new facilities by certain dates. There is no certainty that such dates will be met. Construction of our development projects exposes us to risks of cost overruns due to typical construction uncertainties associated with any project or changes in the designs, plans or concepts of such projects. For these and other reasons, construction costs may exceed the estimated cost of completion notwithstanding the existence of any guaranteed maximum price construction contracts. We are currently in discussions with the contractor regarding the guaranteed maximum price for the Sugarcane Bay project. In the event that we and the general contractor are unable to agree upon the guaranteed maximum price, then, we can either change the scope and scale of the work or terminate the contract that we have with the contractor. We may seek to terminate such contract and seek a new general contractor through competitive bidding. We have not yet entered into a guaranteed maximum price agreement for our Baton Rouge project that would protect us from potential increases in construction costs. We have begun discussions with the Lake Charles Harbor and Terminal District to revise a ground lease pertaining to land on which the Sugarcane Bay project was to be built before the revisions to the project were made. The project will now be built primarily on land already leased for our L’Auberge du Lac complex. In connection with such revisions, we may owe additional amounts to the District. The loss of management and other key personnel could significantly harm our business and we may not be able to effectively replace members of management who have left the company. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the efforts and skills of our senior executives and management team. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our senior executives and key personnel, we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. If we lose the services of any members of our management team or other key personnel, our business may be significantly impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior executive and management personnel or attract additional qualified senior executive and management personnel. On November 7, 2009, our former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel R. Lee, resigned his positions. At that time, we appointed lead director Richard J. Goeglein to serve as Interim Nonexecutive Chairman of the Board and director John V. Giovenco to serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer. We have initiated a search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to find a permanent Chief Executive Officer and/or Chairman of the Board in a timely manner or at all. A potential delay in finding a permanent Chief Executive Officer and/or a Chairman of the Board may have an adverse effect on our operations. Further, we may lose other members of our management team and/or key employees depending on who is named the permanent Chief Executive Officer or whether we are able to find a permanent Chief Executive Officer in a timely manner. 12 Table of Contents In addition, our officers, directors and key employees also are required to file applications with the gaming authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to be licensed or found suitable by these gaming authorities. If the gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could significantly impair our operations. The gaming industry is very competitive and increased competition, including by Native American gaming facilities, could adversely affect our profitability. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate. With fewer new markets opening for development in recent years, this competition will intensify if new gaming operations enter our markets or existing competitors expand their operations. Increased competitive pressures may adversely affect our ability to continue to attract customers or require us to offer a larger number of, or more costly, promotions to compete more efficiently. Further, several of our properties are located in jurisdictions that restrict gaming to certain areas and/or are adjacent to states that currently prohibit or restrict gaming operations. Economic difficulties faced by state governments could lead to intensified political pressures for the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where it is currently prohibited. The legalization of gaming in such jurisdictions could be an expansion opportunity for us or a significant threat to us, depending on where the legalization occurs and our ability to capitalize on it. In particular, our ability to attract customers to our existing casinos would be significantly affected by the legalization or expansion of gaming in Texas, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Oklahoma, and California and the development or expansion of Native American casinos in our markets. The value of our site in Atlantic City has been affected and would be affected by the legislation or expansion of casino gaming in Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York, northern New Jersey or Connecticut. In the past, legislation to legalize or expand gaming has been introduced in some of these jurisdictions and federal law favors the expansion of Native American gaming. In 2007, Indiana approved casinos with 2,000 slot machines at each of two racetracks in the Indianapolis area, both of which opened in 2008. In 2008, New York approved a significant reduction in its gaming tax rate as a specific inducement for a large casino hotel in the Catskills region. In 2008, Maryland voters approved a state constitutional amendment allowing 15,000 slot machines total in five locations. In 2009, the governor of Ohio approved slot machines in the state’s seven racetracks, allowing each to add up to 2,500 video lottery terminals, which approval is being challenged. Also, in November 2009, voters of Ohio approved a proposal that would amend the Ohio constitution to permit four casinos, which are to be located in each of Cleveland, Toledo, Columbus and Cincinnati. In 2009, legislation to approve up to 12 resort casinos, slot machines at racetracks and Native American gaming in Texas was rejected during the state’s 2009 legislative session. In January 2010, Delaware passed legislation that allows table games at three racetracks in the state, which may become operational by the summer of 2010. Also in January 2010, Pennsylvania passed legislation which would allow slots-only casinos in Pennsylvania to feature table games. The Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board has yet to determine how to implement such legislation. We expect similar proposals to legalize or expand gaming will be made in the future in various states and it is uncertain whether such proposals will be successful. Further, because the global economic recession has reduced the revenues of state governments from traditional tax sources, voters and state legislatures may be more sympathetic to proposals authorizing or expanding gaming in those jurisdictions. Even in gaming markets where the state governments do not choose to increase the maximum number of gaming licenses available, we face the risk that existing casino licensees will expand their operations and the risk that Native American gaming will continue to grow. Furthermore, Native American gaming facilities frequently operate under regulatory requirements and tax environments that are less stringent than those imposed on state-licensed casinos, which could provide such Native American gaming facilities with a competitive advantage in our markets. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater name recognition and marketing resources than we do. Moreover, consolidation of companies in the gaming industry could increase the concentration of large gaming companies in the markets in which we operate. This may result in our competitors having even greater resources and name recognition than such competitors currently enjoy. 13 Table of Contents From time to time, our competitors refurbish, rebrand or expand their casino offerings in the markets in which we operate, which could function to increase competition in those markets. For example, a large competitor of our Belterra property recently reopened a rebranded and refurbished riverboat casino in Lawrenceburg, Indiana replacing a smaller facility. We face competition from racetracks that offer slot machines. We also compete with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as bingo, pull-tab games, card parlors, sports books, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse and dog racing, state-sponsored lotteries, video lottery terminals, video poker terminals and, in the future, may compete with gaming at other venues. Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are often illegal under federal law but operate from overseas locations, and are nevertheless sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. There are also proposals that would specifically legalize internet gaming under federal law. Our industry is highly regulated, which makes us dependent on obtaining and maintaining gaming licenses and subjects us to potentially significant fines and penalties. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive state and local regulation. The statutes, rules and regulations of the states and local jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries conduct gaming operations require us to hold various licenses, registrations, permits and approvals and to obtain findings of suitability. The various regulatory authorities, including the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Missouri Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, the Nevada Gaming Commission, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, and the Government of the Province of Neuquén, Argentina may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend, revoke or fail to renew a license to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authorities. Substantial fines or forfeitures of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming facilities. However, it is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits, approvals and findings of suitability that may be required in the future or that existing ones will be renewed or will not be suspended or revoked. Any expansion of our gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or into new jurisdictions may require various additional licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals of the gaming authorities. The approval process can be time consuming and costly, and there can be no assurance of success. We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages at our operating properties. If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could adversely affect our business. Potential changes in the regulatory environment could harm our business. Changes in regulations affecting the casino business can affect our existing or proposed operations. In 2006, we purchased the President Casino out of bankruptcy. The President Casino is a small riverboat operation with an aging facility and is located within three blocks of our Lumière Place facility in downtown St. Louis. On January 27, 2010, the Missouri Gaming Commission, or the “MGC”, issued a preliminary order for disciplinary action that proposed that the MGC revoke the gaming license associated with the President Casino. The MGC alleges in its preliminary order that there has been a purposeful downgrading of the President Casino’s offerings and revenues, which it claims should subject our subsidiary that operates the President Casino to disciplinary action. 14 Table of Contents In addition, legislators and special-interest groups have proposed legislation from time to time that would restrict or prevent gaming operations. Moreover, various jurisdictions such as Illinois, Delaware, New Jersey and Neuquén, Argentina have restricted smoking on the casino floor. Such restrictions resulted in decreases in gaming revenues. Other restrictions or prohibitions on our current or future gaming operations could curtail our operations and could result in decreases in income. We could lose the right to open our River City casino if we fail to meet the conditions imposed by the Missouri Gaming Commission. One of our subsidiaries was selected by the MGC to proceed for licensing for the operation of the River City casino. The issuance of the operating license is in the discretion of the MGC. Although our subsidiary was selected by the MGC to proceed for licensing, we cannot assure you that the license will ultimately be granted. We have invested a significant amount of capital in this project, which may be lost or difficult to recoup in the event that the license is not ultimately granted to us by the MGC. We may not meet the conditions for the maintenance of the licenses that we plan to utilize for our Sugarcane Bay and Baton Rouge projects. In 2006, we acquired two entities that hold Louisiana gaming licenses. One of these licenses is planned to be used in connection with our planned Sugarcane Bay facility and the other license is anticipated to be used in connection with our planned Baton Rouge facility. The Louisiana Gaming Control Board, or the LGCB, has established numerous conditions for use of each of these licenses, which, if not satisfied, could result in forfeiture of such licenses. While we intend to fulfill all conditions set by the LGCB, it is uncertain whether we will be able to do so or that the LGCB would agree to make any amendments to the conditions that might be necessary. Forfeiture of one or both licenses could adversely affect our expansion plans for the Louisiana gaming market. On December 15, 2009, the LGCB lowered the minimum required expenditure on Sugarcane Bay by $50 million and granted us a further extension for completion. The minimum amount we must spend in building Sugarcane Bay is now $300 million and Sugarcane Bay’s completion deadline is now June 30, 2011. Also, in October 2009, the LGCB granted an additional extension for entering into a construction contract for our Baton Rouge project. The deadline is now March 31, 2010. There is no certainty that any additional extensions, if required, will be granted. We operate in a highly taxed industry and may be subject to higher taxes in the future. If the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected. In gaming jurisdictions in which we operate, foreign, state and local governments raise considerable revenues from taxes based on casino revenues and operations. We also pay property taxes, admission taxes, sales and use taxes, payroll taxes, franchise taxes and income taxes. Our profitability depends on generating enough revenues to pay gaming taxes and other largely variable expenses, such as payroll and marketing, as well as largely fixed expenses, such as property taxes and interest expense. From time to time, foreign, state and local governments have increased gaming taxes and such increases can significantly impact the profitability of gaming operations. We cannot assure you that governments in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the federal government or foreign government, will not enact legislation that increases gaming tax rates. The global economic recession has reduced the revenues of state governments from traditional tax sources, which may cause state legislatures or the federal government or foreign government to be more inclined to increase gaming tax rates. 15 Table of Contents The global financial crisis and recession has affected our business and financial condition, and may continue to affect us in ways that we currently cannot accurately predict. The continued credit crisis, recession and related turmoil in the global financial system have had and may continue to have an effect on our business and financial condition. We do not know the duration or severity of the recession. If a significant percentage of our lenders under our amended and restated credit facility were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we may not have the liquidity to fund our current projects. There is no certainty that our lenders will continue to remain solvent or fund their respective obligations under our amended and restated credit facility. Two of our lenders under our previous credit facility filed for bankruptcy and were unable to fund their pro-rata share of amounts drawn under the revolving credit commitment. The significant distress recently experienced by financial institutions has had and may continue to have far reaching adverse consequences across many industries, including the gaming industry. The ongoing credit and liquidity crisis has greatly restricted the availability of capital and has caused the cost of capital, if available, to be much higher than it has traditionally been. Accessing the capital markets in this environment could increase the costs of our projects, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and our ability or willingness to fund our development projects. All of these effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse weather conditions, road construction, gasoline shortages and other factors affecting our facilities and the areas in which we operate could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. Our continued success depends upon our ability to draw customers from each of the geographic markets in which we operate. Adverse weather conditions or road construction can deter our customers from traveling to our facilities or make it difficult for them to frequent our properties. For example, floodwall construction along the access road to Boomtown New Orleans resulted in the temporary loss of the property’s main entrance and continued construction along such road may hinder our customers’ ability to access that property. In addition, gasoline shortages or fuel price increases in regions that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. We believe that the vast majority of our customers drive to our properties. Our dockside gaming facilities in Indiana, Louisiana and Missouri, as well as any additional riverboat or dockside casino properties that might be developed or acquired, are also subject to risks, in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, which could disrupt our operations. Although none of our vessels leave their moorings in normal operations, there are risks associated with the movement or mooring of vessels on waterways, including risks of casualty due to river turbulence, flooding, collisions with other vessels and severe weather conditions. We own a jet airplane, two seaplanes and numerous limousines and other vehicles that are used to transport customers to our casinos and for other corporate purposes. There are liabilities and other risks included in such transportation operations. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, or other catastrophic events, including war and terrorism. Natural disasters such as major hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes could adversely affect our business and operating results. Hurricanes are common in the areas in which our Louisiana properties are located and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. River City is located in an area along the Mississippi River that has historically experienced flooding. Although its foundation is built up to be above historical flooding levels, there is no certainty that this will be sufficient in future floods. In 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage in the Gulf Coast region. Our former Biloxi facility was destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. Our Boomtown New Orleans casino was forced to close for 34 days as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Hurricane Rita caused significant damage in the Lake Charles, Louisiana area and forced our L’Auberge du Lac facility to close for 16 days in addition to causing physical damage. In the third quarter of 2008, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which struck during two key weekends, affected our Louisiana operations and our Texas customer base. Hurricane Ike also caused flooding in St. Louis, necessitating the temporary closure of the President Casino, and caused a power outage over the course of two days at our Belterra Casino Resort. 16 Table of Contents Catastrophic events such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions) and tourism. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which such events may affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or choose to purchase any insurance coverage with respect to occurrences of terrorist acts and any losses that could result from these acts. If there is a prolonged disruption at our properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Natural disasters have made it more challenging for us to obtain similar levels of Weather Catastrophe Occurrence/Named Windstorm, Flood and Earthquake insurance coverage for our properties compared to the levels before the 2005 hurricanes. Because of significant loss experience caused by hurricanes and other natural disasters over the last several years, a number of insurance companies have stopped writing insurance in Class 1 hurricane areas, including Louisiana. Others have significantly limited the amount of coverage they will write in these markets and have dramatically increased the premiums charged for this coverage. As a result, our policy limits for Weather Catastrophe Occurrences/Named Windstorms as well as other losses are significantly less than the policy limits we had during the 2005 hurricane season. During that period, our aggregate Weather Catastrophe Occurrence coverage was $400 million per occurrence. Our coverage for a Named Windstorm today is $200 million per occurrence, with a deductible of 5% of stated values (up to a maximum $20 million deductible). In addition, as a result of the worldwide economic conditions, there has been uncertainty as to the viability of certain insurance companies. While the Company expects that its insurance providers will remain solvent, there is no certainty that this will be the case. Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits. Although we are not currently a party to any domestic collective bargaining agreements, some of our employees have been approached by unions. Multiple unions have made claims that they are the exclusive bargaining agent for our St. Louis employees. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties or construction projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit more employees in the gaming industry. In addition, organized labor may benefit from new legislation or legal interpretations by the current presidential administration. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more aggressive union activity in the future. We are party to a collective bargaining agreement for our Argentina operations. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. From time to time during the normal course of operating our businesses, we are subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might also be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot accurately predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses. We face environmental and archaeological regulation of our real estate. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental statutes and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with such laws could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations by government agencies or courts of law or the incurrence of significant costs of remediation of hazardous materials. A material fine or penalty, severe operational or development restriction, or imposition of material remediation costs could adversely affect our business. In addition, the locations of our current or future developments may coincide with sites containing archaeologically significant artifacts, such as Native American remains and artifacts. Federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the protection of such sites may require us to modify, delay or cancel construction projects at significant cost to us. 17 Table of Contents We face risks associated with growth and acquisitions. We regularly evaluate opportunities for growth through development of gaming operations in existing or new markets, through acquiring other gaming entertainment facilities or through redeveloping our existing facilities. For example, we acquired two entities that hold riverboat gaming licenses to be used in our Sugarcane Bay and Baton Rouge projects. The expansion of our operations, whether through acquisitions, development or internal growth, could divert management’s attention and could also cause us to incur substantial costs, including legal, professional and consulting fees. It is uncertain that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Additionally, it is uncertain that we will receive gaming or other necessary licenses or governmental approvals for our new projects or that gaming will be approved in jurisdictions where it is not currently approved. Further, we may not have adequate financing for such opportunities on acceptable terms. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides certain “safe harbor” provisions for forward-looking statements. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC or statements made by us, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. From time to time, we may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in our other periodic reports on Form 10-Q, Form 8-K, press releases and other materials released to the public. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any documents we incorporate by reference are made pursuant to the Act. Words such as, but not limited to, “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “should,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements, which may include, without limitation, expected results of operations, adequacy of resources to fund development and expansion projects, liquidity, financing options, including the state of the capital markets and our ability to access the capital markets, the state of the credit markets, the state of the economy, anticipated completion and opening schedules of various projects, anticipated results for new projects, expansion plans, construction schedules, cash needs, cash reserves, operating and capital expenses, expense reductions, our ability to retain the gaming license for the President Casino in Missouri, the sufficiency of insurance coverage, anticipated marketing costs at various projects, the future outlook of Pinnacle and the gaming industry, our continuing exclusivity rights to operate casinos in Neuquén, Argentina after 2016 and pending regulatory and legal matters, are all subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by us. This can occur as a result of inaccurate assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause our actual performance to differ materially from that contemplated by such forward-looking statements include, among others, the various risk factors discussed above, in addition to general domestic and international economic and political conditions as well as market conditions in our industry. For more information on the potential factors that could affect our operating results and financial condition in addition to the risk factors described above, review our other filings (other than any portion of such filings that are furnished under applicable SEC Rules rather than filed) with the SEC. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 