Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. We have described below what we currently believe to be the material risks and uncertainties in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also face other risks and uncertainties beyond what we’ve described below. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of securities, including our common stock, could decline significantly. You could lose all or part of your investment. Our substantial funding needs in connection with our development projects, our current expansion projects and other capital-intensive projects will require us to raise substantial amounts of money from outside sources. We are currently engaged in and have planned expansions and development projects that will require substantial amounts of capital. We are currently constructing two new facilities, expanding three existing facilities and have several regional development projects with a total expected cost of more than $1.7 billion, of which we have invested approximately $283 million to date. In addition, our proposed Atlantic City Site is expected to cost an additional $1.5 billion in addition to our recent purchase of the site. We may also consider additional small- and large-scale projects as opportunities present themselves. Accordingly, we expect that the total cost of our development and expansion projects over the next several years will be several billion dollars. While we will endeavor to stage development and construction of these projects over several years, our proposed projects could strain our financial resources. The capital required for these projects will exceed our currently available cash and borrowing resources. Our ability to complete these projects depends on our ability to raise substantial funds from outside sources. We expect to seek to obtain funding through bank financing and/or debt or equity financing in the capital markets. We intend to access the capital markets when we have a need for such capital, taking into consideration market conditions, though we cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional funds in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we obtain additional funds by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, dilution to stockholders may occur. In addition, preferred stock could be issued in the future without stockholder approval and the terms of the preferred stock could include dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights that are more favorable than the rights of the holders of our common stock. As we seek financing for our development projects, we will be subject to the risks of rising interest rates and other factors affecting the financial markets. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition or other factors, such as our credit 10 Table of Contents rating or outlook, at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Inability to access the capital markets may force us to adopt one or more alternatives, such as delaying or reducing planned development and expansion projects, selling assets, restructuring or modifying debt, or obtaining additional equity financing. This may impair our growth and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and the per share trading price of our common stock. We have a policy of not beginning construction of a project unless we have a reasonable certainty of having the funds to complete such project. There is, however, no absolute certainty that this will always be the case. Insufficient or lower-than-expected results generated from our new developments and acquired properties may negatively affect the market for our securities. We cannot assure you that, once completed, the revenues generated from our new developments and acquired properties will be sufficient to pay related expenses; or, even if revenues are sufficient to pay expenses, that the new developments and acquired properties will yield an adequate return on our significant investments. Our projects may take significantly longer than we expect to generate returns, if any. Moreover, lower-than-expected results from the opening of a new facility may negatively affect us and the market for our securities and may make it more difficult to raise capital even as the shortfall increases the need to raise capital. We are currently constructing or developing several new facilities, with our Lumiere Place facility in downtown St. Louis scheduled to be open in late 2007. Many factors could prevent us from completing our construction and development projects as planned, including the escalation of construction costs beyond increments anticipated in our construction budgets. Construction of major buildings has certain inherent risks, including the risks of fire, structural collapse, human error and electrical, mechanical and plumbing malfunction. Several of the buildings being built by us are high-rise structures, introducing additional risks related to heights and cranes. Our development and expansion projects also entail significant risks including: • shortages of materials, including slot machines or other gaming equipment; • shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, excavation, environmental or geological problems; • natural disasters, hurricanes, weather interference, floods, fires, earthquakes or other casualty losses or delays; • unanticipated cost increases or delays in completing the projects; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain or maintain necessary licenses or permits; • changes to plans or specifications; • disputes with contractors; • construction at our existing properties, which could disrupt our operations; and • remediation of environmental contamination at some of our proposed construction sites, which may prove more difficult or expensive than anticipated in our construction budgets. Increases in the cost of raw materials for construction, driven by worldwide demand and other factors, may cause price increases beyond those anticipated in the budgets for our development projects. Furthermore, the cost of construction in areas of the Gulf Coast that were affected by the hurricanes may rise due to demand for construction material and labor in such locales. Any shortages in materials or labor in such areas could prolong the construction period and increase the cost of our development projects in that area. 11 Table of Contents We generally carry insurance to cover certain liabilities related to construction, but not all risks are covered and there can be no assurance that such insurance will provide sufficient payment in a timely fashion even for those risks that are insured. We cannot assure you that any project will be completed on time or within established budgets. Significant delays or cost overruns on our construction projects could significantly reduce any return on our investment in these projects and adversely affect our earnings and financial resources. Construction of our development projects exposes us to risks of cost overruns due to typical construction uncertainties associated with any project or changes in the design, plans or concepts of such projects. For these and other reasons, construction costs may exceed the estimated cost of completion notwithstanding any guaranteed maximum price construction contracts we may enter into. Although we have firm contracts with subcontractors for most of the construction at Lumiere Place, we have not yet entered into a guaranteed maximum price contract with a general contractor with respect to either our Lumiere Place or River City projects. Accordingly, we are subject to cost increases that might otherwise be addressed by guaranteed maximum price construction contracts or other construction contracts that might lock-in certain costs. In addition, we may not have the same warranties and other legal protections that a construction contract could provide. We may build some or all of our future projects without entering into construction contracts. Development of our Atlantic City Site presents many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated from the development. In November 2006, we completed our purchase of the entities that own the Atlantic City Site. We plan to demolish the existing structures and design and build an entirely new casino-hotel on the site. Such new casino-hotel is planned to be among the largest and most spectacular resorts in the region. While we have not yet determined the scope or overall design of the new project, we estimate that the cost of the new casino-hotel, excluding the purchase price to acquire the Atlantic City Site, is likely to be at least $1.5 billion. The risks we may face in the development of our Atlantic City Site include: • We will face significant competition in the Atlantic City market. Casinos are planned for Pennsylvania and New York. Legalization or expansion of gaming in other nearby jurisdictions could provide additional competition for casinos in Atlantic City. • Our development of the Atlantic City Site is planned to be of a larger scale than any we have undertaken. It will be subject to significant risks and contingencies, including those relating to construction and financing. We may not complete the development on time or within budget, which could exacerbate the risks associated with such development. • Completion of the Atlantic City Site would likely involve the incurrence of substantial amounts of additional indebtedness, which will increase the risks associated with our current level of indebtedness. Until the development is complete, a process that is estimated to take more than four years, we will not have any revenue relative to this investment. Accordingly, during construction we will incur substantial amounts of indebtedness for the development without additional revenue to contribute to the servicing of such indebtedness until the new facility opens. • If we complete the development, the results of operations at our new Atlantic City casino may not meet our expectations or those of investors in our securities. The gaming industry is very competitive and increased competition, including by Native American gaming facilities, could adversely affect our profitability. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate. This competition will intensify if new gaming operations enter our markets or existing competitors expand their operations. For example, the 12 Table of Contents recent opening of a new resort-casino in French Lick, Indiana could provide additional competition for our Belterra Casino Resort in Indiana. In addition, several of our properties are located in jurisdictions that restrict gaming to certain areas and/or are adjacent to states that currently prohibit or restrict gaming operations. Economic difficulties faced by state governments could lead to intensified political pressures for the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where it is currently prohibited. The legalization of gaming in such jurisdictions could be an expansion opportunity for us or a significant threat to us, depending on where the legalization occurs and our ability to capitalize on it. In particular, our ability to attract customers would be significantly affected by the legalization or expansion of gaming in Texas, Ohio, Kentucky, Oklahoma, California, Pennsylvania, New York or northern New Jersey and the development or expansion of Native American casinos in our markets. In the past, legislation to legalize or expand gaming has been introduced in some of these jurisdictions and federal law favors the expansion of Native American gaming. In 2006, legislation to add more than 30,000 slot machines at seven racetracks in Ohio was rejected by the voters of Ohio. There are also current proposals to add table games at racetracks in West Virginia and slot machines at racetracks in Indiana. We expect similar proposals will be made in the future in various states and we cannot assure you that such proposals will not be successful. Even in gaming markets where the state governments do not choose to increase the maximum number of gaming licenses available, we face the risk that existing casino licensees will expand their operations and the risk that Native American gaming will continue to grow. Furthermore, Native American gaming facilities frequently operate under regulatory requirements and tax environments that are less stringent than those imposed on state-licensed casinos, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater name recognition and marketing resources than we do. Moreover, consolidation of companies in the gaming industry could increase the concentration of large gaming companies in the markets in which we operate. This may result in our competitors having even greater resources and name recognition than such competitors currently enjoy. Recently, the Pennsylvania gaming authorities granted licenses for a significant number of slot machines at various locations in that state. These planned casinos, as well as potential casinos that could be built in New York, could provide additional competition for casinos in Atlantic City. We face competition from racetracks that offer slot machines. We also compete with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as bingo, pull-tab games, card parlors, sports books, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse and dog racing, state-sponsored lotteries, video lottery terminals, video poker terminals and, in the future, may compete with gaming at other venues. Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are often illegal under Federal law but operate from overseas locations and are nevertheless sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. We may not meet the conditions for the maintenance of the licenses that we plan to utilize for our Sugarcane Bay and Baton Rouge projects. Recently, we completed the acquisition from Harrah’s of two entities that own certain Lake Charles, Louisiana gaming assets, including two riverboat casinos each with an associated gaming license. One of these licenses will be used in connection with our planned Sugarcane Bay facility and we have proposed to use the other licensed entity for a development project in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Both licenses contain numerous conditions set by the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, or LGCB, including development of Sugarcane Bay on the site adjacent to L’Auberge du Lac which, if not satisfied, could result in forfeiture of the license. While we expect to fulfill all conditions set by the LGCB, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so or that the LGCB would agree to make any amendments that might be necessary. Forfeiture of one or both licenses could adversely affect our plans for the Louisiana gaming market. 13 Table of Contents Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have adverse consequences to us; future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and we might have difficulty obtaining additional financing; we may experience adverse effects due to interest-rate and exchange-rate fluctuations. In November 2006, we amended our credit facility to increase the overall facility by $250 million to $1 billion, among other things. As of December 31, 2006, we had total indebtedness of approximately $774.3 million, including $335 million of outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility, our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012, our 8.75% senior subordinated notes due 2013 and other debt. Our credit facility provides for a $625.0 million revolving credit facility, of which $545.7 million was undrawn and available as of December 31, 2006. Our credit facility also contains $100 million in additional delayed-draw term loans, to which we expect to have access at any time prior to July 2, 2007, subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions to borrowing and satisfaction of certain financial ratios. Our substantial development plans for capital-intensive projects will require us to borrow significant amounts under our credit facility and to incur substantial additional indebtedness. While we believe that we have sufficient cash and cash-generating resources to meet our debt service obligations during the next 12 months, we cannot assure you that in the future we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through asset sales to meet our long-term debt service obligations. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing without restructuring the covenants in our existing indebtedness to permit the incurrence of such financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for payments on the debt and related interest, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; • incurring higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings which have variable interest rates; • limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; • heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; • restricting our activities compared to those of competitors with less debt or greater resources; and • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, with which a failure to comply could result in an event of default. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. In such circumstances, we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest, and to the extent not protected with interest rate hedges, could expose us to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable-rate indebtedness could increase significantly even though the amount borrowed would remain the same. This may only be partially offset by earning higher rates of interest on our surplus cash balances. Additionally, our operation of Casino Magic Argentina exposes us to foreign exchange rate risk from adverse changes in the exchange rate of the dollar to the Argentine Peso. The Bahamian dollar has been pegged to the U.S. dollar for many years. If however, this should change, then we would also be exposed to foreign exchange risk from our Bahamian casino. 14 Table of Contents The terms of our credit facility and the indentures governing our subordinated indebtedness impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our bank credit facility and the indentures governing our 8.25% and 8.75% senior subordinated notes impose various customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries, including, among others, reporting covenants, incurrence covenants, covenants restricting our ability to make certain investments or other restricted payments, covenants to maintain insurance and comply with laws, covenants to maintain properties and other covenants customary in senior credit financings and indentures. In addition, our credit facility requires that we comply with various financial covenants, including an interest coverage and debt to operating cash flow ratio, and capital spending limits. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control, including delay in the completion of new projects under construction. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Damage and closures caused by Hurricane Katrina in the New Orleans area make our future operating results at Boomtown New Orleans less predictable and we expect near-term operating results and margins at our Boomtown New Orleans facility to be lower than the year-ago results of immediate post-hurricane periods. The damage caused by the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast and the New Orleans metropolitan area, including damage to roads, utilities and residential and commercial buildings, could affect the local gaming markets. Some of our competitors have chosen to exit the hurricane-damaged areas and some have chosen to reenter such markets on a grander scale and rebuild their facilities with significant capital investments. Tourism in the region is generally believed to be below pre-hurricane levels and may never return to such levels. As a result, future operating results at casinos in the region have been less predictable. We expect operating results and margins of our Boomtown New Orleans facility during the next several quarters to be below prior-year periods. Boomtown New Orleans was the first casino in the region to reopen after the hurricanes and operated for several months with less competition than it has today or had prior to the hurricane. Issues with respect to our insurance policies could affect our recovery of further insurance proceeds associated with the 2005 hurricane damage and related business interruption. We are currently in litigation with several insurance providers regarding our right to recover further insurance proceeds from the damage to Casino Magic Biloxi, which was closed as a result of Hurricane Katrina and which we have now sold. On April 11, 2006, we filed a claim for $346.5 million for property damage and business interruption incurred at the Casino Magic Biloxi site as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Net of our insurance deductible, such claim would be approximately $340 million plus prejudgment interest. We have received $100 million in advances as of December 31, 2006 towards our insurance claim and we have begun litigation regarding our right to recover further insurance proceeds with respect to our claim. There can be no assurances that our estimate of damages will be sustained or that we will be fully compensated for all losses sustained due to the closure of the Biloxi facility or that we will be paid on a timely basis. Recent natural disasters have made it difficult for us to obtain similar levels of Weather Catastrophe Occurrence, Flood and Earthquake insurance coverage for our properties compared to our previous coverage. Because of significant loss experience caused by hurricanes and other natural disasters over the last several years, a number of insurance companies have stopped writing insurance in Class 1 hurricane areas, including Louisiana and Mississippi. Others have significantly limited the amount of coverage they will write in these markets and have dramatically increased the premiums charged for this coverage. As a result, our policy limits for Weather Catastrophe Occurrences as well as other losses are significantly less than the policy limits we had during the 2005 hurricane season. During that period, our aggregate Weather Catastrophe coverage per 15 Table of Contents occurrence was $400 million. Effective April 1, 2006, our Weather Catastrophe coverage is limited to $100 million per occurrence, with a $10 million deductible and a $15 million self-insured tier. Above this $100 million limit, we have an additional $300 million of coverage per occurrence, but excluding Weather Catastrophe Occurrences. If any of our properties suffer a Weather Catastrophe Occurrence, any damages in excess of the coverage limits will likely be borne by us. A “Weather Catastrophe Occurrence” is defined in these policies as “all loss or damage occurring during a period of 72 consecutive hours which is caused by or results from a storm or weather disturbance which is named by the National Weather Service or any other recognized meteorological authority. Storm or weather disturbance includes all weather phenomenon associated with or occurring in conjunction with the storm or weather disturbance, including, but not limited to flood, wind, hail, sleet, tornadoes, hurricane or lightning.” We operate in a highly taxed industry and may be subject to higher taxes in the future. In virtually all gaming jurisdictions, state and local governments raise considerable revenues from taxes based on casino revenues and operations. We also pay property taxes, sales and use taxes, payroll taxes, franchise taxes and income taxes. Our profitability depends on generating enough revenues to pay gaming taxes and other largely variable expenses, such as payroll and marketing, as well as largely fixed expenses, such as our property taxes and interest expense. From time to time, state and local governments have increased gaming taxes and such increases can significantly impact the profitability of gaming operations. We cannot assure you that governments in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the federal government, will not enact legislation that increases gaming tax rates. Such increases, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We could lose the right to pursue the St. Louis City and St. Louis County projects if we fail to meet the conditions imposed by the Missouri Gaming Commission. We have entered into a redevelopment agreement with the City of St. Louis and a lease and development agreement with St. Louis County with respect to the two St. Louis casinos and mixed-use facilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will complete the projects. The City of St. Louis may terminate the redevelopment agreement and St. Louis County may terminate the St. Louis County lease and development agreement under certain instances. Under both the City of St. Louis redevelopment agreement and the St. Louis County lease and development agreement, if we fail to complete the applicable project in accordance with the terms of the applicable agreement, we will owe monetary penalties and liquidated damages. In September 2004, one of our subsidiaries was selected by the MGC to proceed for licensing for the operation of the casinos being built in the City of St. Louis and St. Louis County. The issuance of the operating licenses is subject to, among other requirements: (i) the completion of construction of the City and County facilities by certain completion dates; (ii) the construction of a road for access to the County facility by a certain completion date; (iii) maintaining an interest coverage ratio (as defined by the MGC) of at least 2.0x; (iv) compliance with the statutory requirements regarding riverboat gaming, including the requirement that each casino is located within 1,000 feet of the Missouri River or the Mississippi River; and (v) the suitability of Pinnacle and its key persons as defined by Missouri law. The issuance of the operating licenses is in the discretion of the MGC. Although our subsidiary was selected by the MGC to proceed for licensing, and we have been licensed as a key person business entity of our subsidiary, and our subsidiary has been licensed to operate the President Riverboat Casino that we acquired in December 2006, we cannot assure you that the licenses will ultimately be granted. We have invested a significant amount of capital in these projects, which may be lost or difficult to recoup in the event that the licenses are not ultimately granted to us by the MGC. 16 Table of Contents Our industry is highly regulated, which makes us dependent on obtaining and maintaining gaming licenses and subjects us to potentially significant fines and penalties. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive state and local regulation. The rules and regulations of the states and local jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries conduct gaming operations require us to hold various licenses, registrations, permits and approvals and to obtain findings of suitability. The various regulatory authorities, including the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Missouri Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, the Nevada Gaming Commission, New Jersey Casino Control Commission, the Province of Neuquen, Argentina and The Gaming Control Board of The Bahamas, may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend, revoke or fail to renew a license to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authorities. Substantial fines or forfeitures of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming facilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits, approvals and findings of suitability that may be required in the future or that existing ones will be renewed or will not be suspended or revoked. Any expansion of our gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or into new jurisdictions may require various additional licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals of the gaming authorities. The approval process can be time consuming and costly and has no assurance of success. Potential changes in the regulatory environment could harm our business. From time to time, legislators and special-interest groups have proposed legislation that would restrict or prevent gaming operations. In addition, changes in regulations affecting the casino business can affect our existing or proposed operations. For example, on February 7, 2007, the city council of Atlantic City passed an ordinance prohibiting smoking in 75% of gaming areas in Atlantic City casinos. This could place casinos in Atlantic City at a competitive disadvantage to certain casinos in Pennsylvania and on tribal lands in Connecticut. Other restrictions or prohibitions on our current or future gaming operations could curtail our operations and could result in decreases in income. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us. A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines at our casinos. It is important for competitive reasons that we offer the most popular and up-to-date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers. We believe that in recent years the prices of new slot machines have escalated faster than the rate of inflation. Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participating lease arrangements. Generally, a participating lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participating lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participating lease costs, it could affect our profitability. 17 Table of Contents Adverse weather conditions, highway construction, gasoline shortages and other factors affecting our facilities and the areas in which we operate could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. Our continued success depends upon our ability to draw customers from each of the geographic markets in which we operate. Adverse weather conditions or highway construction can deter our customers from traveling to our facilities or make it difficult for them to frequent our properties. In addition, gasoline shortages or fuel price increases in regions that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. We believe that the vast majority of our customers drive to our properties. Our Bahamian casino, however, is highly dependent on air service to the island of Great Exuma. Our dockside gaming facilities in Indiana, Louisiana and Missouri, as well as any additional riverboat or dockside casino properties that might be developed or acquired, are also subject to risks, in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, which could disrupt our operations. Although none of our vessels leave their moorings in normal operations, there are risks associated with the movement or mooring of vessels on waterways, including risks of casualty due to river turbulence, flooding, collisions with other vessels and severe weather conditions. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, or other catastrophic events, including war and terrorism. Natural disasters such as major hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes could adversely affect our business and operating results. Hurricanes are common to the areas in which our Louisiana properties are located and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. In 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage in the Gulf Coast region. Our Biloxi facility was destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. Our Boomtown New Orleans casino was forced to close for 34 days as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Hurricane Rita caused significant damage in the Lake Charles, Louisiana area and forced our L’Auberge du Lac resort to close for 16 days in addition to causing physical damage. Atlantic City is on a barrier island and could also be susceptible to hurricanes and storm surges. We cannot currently predict the long-term impact that the recent hurricanes or any future natural disasters will have on our ability to maintain our customer base or to sustain our business activities. Catastrophic events such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions) and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which such events may affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or choose to purchase any insurance coverage with respect to occurrences of terrorist acts and any losses that could result from these acts. If there is a prolonged disruption at our properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, or if several of our properties simultaneously experience such events, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The loss of management and other key personnel could significantly harm our business. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the efforts and skills of our senior executives and management team, including Daniel R. Lee, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Lee and certain of our other senior executives and managers, we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. If we lose the services of any members of our management team or other key personnel, our business may be significantly impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified senior management personnel. In addition, our officers, directors and key employees also are required to file applications with the gaming authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to be licensed or found suitable by these gaming authorities. If the gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable 18 Table of Contents for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could significantly impair our gaming operations. We experience seasonal fluctuations that significantly impact our operating results. We experience significant fluctuations in our operating results due to seasonality and other factors. Historically, the summer months are our strongest period and the winter months are our slowest period. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. We are, from time to time during the normal course of operating our businesses, subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might also be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses. We face environmental and archaeological regulation of our real estate. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with such laws could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations by government agencies or courts of law or the incurrence of significant costs of remediation of hazardous materials. A material fine or penalty, severe operational or development restriction, or imposition of material remediation costs could adversely affect our business. In addition, the locations of our current or future developments may coincide with sites containing archaeologically significant artifacts, such as Native American remains and artifacts. Federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the protection of such sites may require us to modify, delay or cancel construction projects at significant cost to us. Economic and political conditions, including slowdowns in the economy, and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending may harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for casino hotel resorts and gaming in general and for the type of amenities we offer. A general downturn in economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences or other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general or regional economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and consumer confidence in the economy, could harm our business. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in travel could significantly harm our operations. Our stock price has been and may remain volatile, and the value of your common stock may decline as a result of this volatility. The market price of our common stock has been in the past, and may in the future be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: • variations in quarterly operating results; • lower-than-expected results from the openings of our new facilities; • announcements, by us or our competitors, of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • speculation about takeover or acquisition activity; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; 19 Table of Contents • changes in recommendations or financial estimates by securities analysts; • loss or threat of loss of material gaming licenses; • grant of new gaming licenses to our competitors, whether in our markets or in adjacent gaming markets; • conditions and trends in the gaming industry, including new state regulation or taxes enacted by state legislatures; • general conditions in the economy; • the receptivity of the capital markets to any future financings; and • the other factors described in or referred to in “Risk Factors” and “Private Securities Litigation Reform Act.” In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which are often unrelated to the performance or condition of particular companies. Such broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company. If we become subject to this kind of litigation in the future, it could result in substantial litigation costs, damages awards against us, and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC or statements made by us, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. From time to time, we may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other public materials. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any documents we incorporate by reference are made pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Words such as, but not limited to, “believes,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding our expansion and development plans, cash needs, cash reserves, liquidity, operating and capital expenses, financing options, operating results, insurance recoveries and pending regulatory matters. Although we believe our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations, and actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from forward-looking statements. This can occur as a result of inaccurate assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause our actual performance to differ materially from that contemplated by such forward-looking statements include, among others, the various risk factors discussed above, in addition to general domestic and international economic and political conditions as well as market conditions in our industry. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides certain “safe harbor” provisions for forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made pursuant to the Act. For more information on the potential factors that could affect our operating results and financial condition in addition to the risks described above, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting Future Operating Results” below and review our other filings with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 