Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. We have described below what we currently believe to be the material risks and uncertainties in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also face other risks and uncertainties beyond what is described below. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of securities, including our common stock, could decline significantly. You could lose all or part of your investment. Our substantial funding needs in connection with our development projects, our current expansion projects and other capital-intensive projects, to the extent such projects are undertaken, will require us to raise substantial amounts of money from outside sources. In the near term, the availability of financing may be constrained by current disruptions in the credit markets. We are currently engaged in and have planned expansions and development projects that would require substantial amounts of capital. We are currently constructing River City, are planning to begin construction of Sugarcane Bay in 2008, construction of Rivière in 2009, and have expansion and improvement projects at several of our existing facilities, including Boomtown New Orleans, Boomtown Reno and Boomtown Bossier City. These projects have an expected aggregate investment of more than $1.2 billion, of which we have invested approximately $56.4 million through December 31, 2007. In addition, our proposed Atlantic City project is expected to require a very substantial additional investment. We have been endorsed for a new casino resort in Kansas City, Kansas by that area’s Unified Government. If we are chosen as a licensee by the Kansas Racing and Gaming Commission, we expect to invest approximately $650 million in our Kansas City project. We may also consider additional small-scale and large-scale projects as such opportunities arise. Accordingly, we expect that the total cost of our development and expansion projects over the next several years will be several billion 12 Table of Contents dollars. While we will endeavor to stage development and construction of these projects over several years, our proposed projects could strain our financial resources. In order to fund most of these projects, we will need to access the capital markets since the capital required for these projects exceeds our available financial resources. As a result of the turmoil in the credit markets, the availability of debt financing is constrained, expensive and potentially unavailable. We cannot accurately predict when or if the credit markets will return to more normalized conditions. If the current debt market environment does not improve, we may not be able to raise additional funds in a timely manner, or on acceptable terms, or at all. Inability to access the capital markets, or the necessity to access the capital markets on less than favorable terms, may force us to delay, reduce or cancel planned development and expansion projects, sell assets or obtain additional equity financing. Our current stock price, along with the stock prices of many public gaming companies, has declined sharply from the recent historical levels. We may choose to cancel or delay projects rather than issue equity at these levels. This may impair our growth and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and the returns of investing in our securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future debt or equity offerings may also be limited by our financial condition, results of operations or other factors, such as our credit rating or outlook at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. As we seek financing for our development projects, we will be subject to the risks of rising interest rates and other factors affecting the financial markets. Moreover, if we obtain additional funds by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, dilution to stockholders may occur. In addition, preferred stock could be issued in the future without stockholder approval and the terms of the preferred stock could include dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and other rights that are more favorable than the rights of the holders of our common stock. Insufficient or lower-than-expected results generated from our new developments and acquired properties may negatively affect the market for our securities. We cannot assure you that, if and once completed, the revenues generated from our new developments and acquired properties will be sufficient to pay related expenses; or, even if revenues are sufficient to pay expenses, that the new developments and acquired properties will yield an adequate or expected return on our significant investments. Our projects, if completed, may take significantly longer than we expect to generate returns, if any. Moreover, lower-than-expected results from the opening of a new facility may negatively affect us and the market for our securities and may make it more difficult to raise capital, even as the shortfall increases the need to raise capital. Many factors could prevent us from completing our construction and development projects as planned, including the escalation of construction costs beyond increments anticipated in our construction budgets. Construction of major buildings has certain inherent risks, including the risks of fire, structural collapse, human error and electrical, mechanical and plumbing malfunction. Several of the buildings being built by us are high-rise structures, introducing additional risks related to heights and cranes. Our development and expansion projects also entail significant risks, including: • shortages of materials; • shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, excavation, environmental or geological problems; • natural disasters, hurricanes, weather interference, floods, fires, earthquakes or other casualty losses or delays; 13 Table of Contents • unanticipated cost increases or delays in completing the projects; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain or maintain necessary licenses or permits; • changes to plans or specifications; • disputes with contractors; • construction at our existing properties, which could disrupt our operations; • remediation of environmental contamination at some of our proposed construction sites, which may prove more difficult or expensive than anticipated in our construction budgets; • failure to obtain necessary gaming regulatory approvals and licenses, or failure to obtain such approvals and licenses on a timely basis; and • requirements or government established “goals” concerning union labor or requiring that a portion of the project expenditures be through companies controlled by specific ethnic or gender groups, goals that may not be obtainable, or may only be obtainable at additional project cost. Increases in the cost of raw materials for construction, driven by worldwide demand, higher labor and construction costs in urban areas such as St. Louis or Atlantic City and other factors, may cause price increases beyond those anticipated in the budgets for our development projects. Furthermore, the cost of construction in areas of the Gulf Coast that were affected by the hurricanes may rise due to demand for construction material and labor in such locales. Any shortages in materials or labor in such areas could prolong the construction period and increase the cost of our development projects in that area. Escalating construction costs may cause us to modify the design and scope of projects from those initially contemplated or cause the budgets for those projects to be increased. We generally carry insurance to cover certain liabilities related to construction, but not all risks are covered and it is uncertain whether such insurance will provide sufficient payment in a timely fashion even for those risks that are insured. It is uncertain whether any project will be completed on time or within established budgets. Significant delays or cost overruns related to our construction projects could significantly reduce any return on our investment in these projects and adversely affect our earnings and financial resources. There are also certain tax incentives for construction in hurricane damaged areas that require completion of new facilities by certain dates. There is no certainty that such dates will be met. Construction of our development projects exposes us to risks of cost overruns due to typical construction uncertainties associated with any project or changes in the designs, plans or concepts of such projects. For these and other reasons, construction costs may exceed the estimated cost of completion notwithstanding the existence of any guaranteed maximum price construction contracts. In November 2007, we entered into a guaranteed maximum price contract for our Sugarcane Bay project. Pursuant to the terms of the contract, the general contractor is required to submit a proposal to us for the guaranteed maximum price in the near future. In the event that we and the general contractor are unable to agree upon the guaranteed maximum price, then we can either change the scope and scale of the work or terminate the contract. The contract must be approved by the LGCB. In addition, we have not yet entered into a guaranteed maximum price contract with a general contractor with respect to our River City project. We have begun foundation work acting as our own general contractor and are utilizing a qualified sub-contractor. We anticipate completing the working drawings and entering into a guaranteed maximum price contract with a general contractor for the balance of the construction prior to completion of the foundations. Although it is our preference to enter into guaranteed maximum price construction contracts on major construction projects with general contractors when it is commercially reasonable to do so, we may build some or all of our future projects without entering into such construction contracts with general contractors. 14 Table of Contents Development of our Atlantic City site presents many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated from the development. In November 2006, we completed our purchase of the entities that own the Atlantic City site. We continue to develop and design our Atlantic City project, which for a resort of this size is expected to take at least two to three years from the date of our acquisition of the site. The construction will then require approximately three to four additional years to complete. Concurrently, we are preparing the site for the future casino resort, including the late October 2007 implosion of an old casino-hotel structure. The new casino-hotel is planned to be among the largest and most spectacular resorts in the region. While we have not yet determined the scope or overall design of the new project, we estimate that the size and the cost of the new casino-hotel will be substantially greater than anything we have built previously. The risks we may face in the development of our Atlantic City site include: • We will face significant competition in the Atlantic City market. There are numerous casinos already in Atlantic City and casinos are now operating in Pennsylvania and New York. Legalization or expansion of gaming in other nearby jurisdictions could provide additional competition for casinos in Atlantic City; • Our development of the Atlantic City site is planned to be of a larger scale than any we have undertaken. It will be subject to significant risks and contingencies, including those relating to construction and financing. We may not complete the development on time, within budget, or at all, which could exacerbate the risks associated with such development; • Completion of the Atlantic City project would likely involve the incurrence of substantial amounts of additional indebtedness, which will increase the risks associated with our current level of indebtedness. Until the development is complete, a process that is estimated to take several years, we will not have any revenue relative to this investment. Accordingly, during construction, we will incur substantial amounts of indebtedness for the development without additional revenue to contribute to the servicing of such indebtedness until the new facility opens; • If we complete the development, the results of operations at our new Atlantic City casino may not meet our expectations or those of investors in our securities; and • We must obtain approvals and a license from the New Jersey Casino Control Commission in order to operate the casino and it is uncertain whether such approvals and license will be obtained, or that they will be obtained on a timely basis. The gaming industry is very competitive and increased competition, including by Native American gaming facilities, could adversely affect our profitability. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate. This competition will intensify if new gaming operations enter our markets or existing competitors expand their operations. In 2008, two racetracks in metropolitan Indianapolis are each expected to begin operating 2,000 slot machines. In Pennsylvania, a total of five “racinos” and one stand-alone slot machine facility opened in 2006 and 2007. In addition, one “racino” is scheduled to open in 2008 and four stand-alone slot machine facilities are scheduled to open in 2009 and 2010. Each of these facilities will provide additional competition for our Atlantic City project. Further, several of our properties are located in jurisdictions that restrict gaming to certain areas and/or are adjacent to states that currently prohibit or restrict gaming operations. Economic difficulties faced by state governments could lead to intensified political pressures for the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where it is currently prohibited. The legalization of gaming in such jurisdictions could be an expansion opportunity for us or a significant threat to us, depending on where the legalization occurs and our ability to capitalize on it. In 15 Table of Contents particular, our ability to attract customers would be significantly affected by the legalization or expansion of gaming in Texas, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Oklahoma, California, Delaware, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York or northern New Jersey and the development or expansion of Native American casinos in our markets. In the past, legislation to legalize or expand gaming has been introduced in some of these jurisdictions and federal law favors the expansion of Native American gaming. In 2006, legislation to add more than 30,000 slot machines at seven racetracks in Ohio was rejected by the voters of Ohio. In 2007, voters in West Virginia approved table games at racetracks in the Ohio, Hancock and Kanawha counties, but rejected a similar proposal in Jefferson County. In 2007, Indiana approved 2,000 slot machines at each of two racetracks in the Indianapolis area. In 2007, the Governor of Kansas signed legislation approving four state-owned casinos and up to 2,800 slot machines to be divided among three racetracks. We submitted two proposals for a new gaming entertainment complex to be located in Kansas City, Kansas and received an endorsement from the Unified Government for one of the proposals. We are one of several companies vying for the one gaming license anticipated to be issued in Northeastern Kansas. We expect similar proposals to legalize or expand gaming will be made in the future in various states and it is uncertain whether such proposals will be successful. Even in gaming markets where the state governments do not choose to increase the maximum number of gaming licenses available, we face the risk that existing casino licensees will expand their operations and the risk that Native American gaming will continue to grow. Furthermore, Native American gaming facilities frequently operate under regulatory requirements and tax environments that are less stringent than those imposed on state-licensed casinos, which could provide them with a competitive advantage. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater name recognition and marketing resources than we do. Moreover, consolidation of companies in the gaming industry could increase the concentration of large gaming companies in the markets in which we operate. This may result in our competitors having even greater resources and name recognition than such competitors currently enjoy. We face competition from racetracks that offer slot machines. We also compete with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as bingo, pull-tab games, card parlors, sports books, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse and dog racing, state-sponsored lotteries, video lottery terminals, video poker terminals and, in the future, may compete with gaming at other venues. Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are often illegal under Federal law but operate from overseas locations and are nevertheless sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. We may not meet the conditions for the maintenance of the licenses that we plan to utilize for our Sugarcane Bay and Rivière projects. In 2006, we completed the acquisition from Harrah’s of two entities that own certain Lake Charles, Louisiana gaming assets, including two licensed riverboat casinos, each with an associated gaming license. One of these licenses will be used in connection with our Sugarcane Bay facility and the other license will be used in connection with our planned Rivière facility. The LGCB has established numerous conditions for use of each of these licenses, including development of Sugarcane Bay on the site adjacent to L’Auberge du Lac and development of Rivière in Baton Rouge, which, if not satisfied, could result in forfeiture of such licenses. While we expect to fulfill all conditions set by the LGCB, it is uncertain whether we will be able to do so or that the LGCB would agree to make any amendments that might be necessary. Forfeiture of one or both licenses could adversely affect our plans for the Louisiana gaming market. 16 Table of Contents Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have adverse consequences to us; future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and we might have difficulty obtaining additional financing; we may experience adverse effects of interest-rate and exchange-rate fluctuations. In June 2007, we issued $385 million aggregate principal amount of 7.50% senior subordinated notes due 2015, using a portion of the proceeds to retire our $275 million term loan within our Credit Facility and a portion to purchase $25 million in principal amount of our outstanding 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012. As of December 31, 2007, we had indebtedness of approximately $841 million, including $50 million drawn on the revolving credit facility, $275 million in aggregate principal amount of our 8.25% senior subordinated notes due 2012, $135 million in aggregate principal amount of our 8.75% senior subordinated notes due 2013, and $385 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% senior subordinated notes due 2015. Our Credit Facility is comprised of a $625 million revolving credit facility, of which we are limited to $350 million under the terms of the indenture governing our 8.75% senior subordinated notes (which limitation is $475 million under terms of our 8.25% senior subordinated notes). As of February 25, 2008, of the $350 million available for use under our revolving credit facility, we have drawn down $140 million and $21.2 million was utilized under various letters of credit. Our substantial development plans for capital-intensive projects will require us to borrow significant amounts under our Credit Facility and to incur substantial additional indebtedness. While we believe that we have sufficient cash and cash-generating resources to meet our debt service obligations during the next 12 months, it is uncertain in the future whether we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through asset sales to meet our long-term debt service obligations. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing without restructuring the covenants in our existing indebtedness to permit the incurrence of such financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for payments on the debt and related interest, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; • incurring higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates; • limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; • heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; • restricting our activities compared to those of competitors with less debt or greater resources; and • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, which a failure to comply with could result in an event of default. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. In such circumstances, it is uncertain that we will be able to refinance any of our debt. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our borrowings under our revolving credit facility are at variable rates of interest, and to the extent not protected with interest rate hedges, could expose us to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates. We currently have no such interest rate hedges. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable-rate indebtedness could increase significantly even though the amount borrowed would remain the same. This 17 Table of Contents may only be partially offset by earning higher rates of interest on our surplus cash balances. Additionally, our operation of Casino Magic Argentina exposes us to foreign exchange rate risk from adverse changes in the exchange rate of the dollar to the Argentine Peso. The Bahamian dollar has been pegged to the U.S. dollar for many years. If, however, this should change, then we would also be exposed to foreign exchange risk from our Bahamian casino. The terms of our credit facility and the indentures governing our subordinated indebtedness impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 7.50%, 8.25% and 8.75% senior subordinated notes impose various customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries, including, among others, reporting covenants, incurrence covenants, covenants restricting our ability to make certain investments or other restricted payments, covenants to maintain insurance and comply with laws, covenants to maintain properties and other covenants customary in senior credit financings and indentures. In addition, our Credit Facility requires that we comply with various financial covenants, including an interest coverage and debt to operating cash flow ratios, and capital spending limits. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control, including delay in the completion of new projects under construction. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Economic and political conditions, including slowdowns in the economy, and other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending may harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for casino-hotel resorts and gaming in general and for the type of amenities we offer. A general downturn in economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences or other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general or regional economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and consumer confidence in the economy, could harm our business. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in travel could significantly harm our operations. Our stock price has been and may remain volatile, and the value of our common stock may decline as a result of this volatility. The market price of our common stock has been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: • variations in quarterly operating results; • lower-than-expected results from the openings of our new facilities; • announcements, by us or our competitors, of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • speculation about takeover or acquisition activity; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in recommendations or financial estimates by securities analysts; • loss or threat of loss of material gaming licenses or failure to obtain new approvals and licenses required for our projects; 18 Table of Contents • the granting of new gaming licenses to our competitors, whether in our markets or in adjacent gaming markets; • conditions and trends in the gaming industry, including new state regulation or taxes enacted by state legislatures; • general conditions in the economy; • the receptivity of the capital markets to any future financings; and • the other risk factors described in or referred to in this “Risk Factors” section as well as the “Private Securities Litigation Reform Act” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting Future Operating Results” sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which are often unrelated to the performance or condition of particular companies. Such broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company. If we become subject to this kind of litigation in the future, it could result in substantial litigation costs, damages awards against us, and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Damage and closures caused by Hurricane Katrina in the New Orleans area make our future operating results at Boomtown New Orleans less predictable. The damage caused by the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast and the New Orleans metropolitan area, including damage to roads, utilities and residential and commercial buildings, has affected the local gaming markets. Some of our competitors have chosen to exit the hurricane-damaged areas and some have chosen to reenter such markets on a grander scale and rebuild their facilities with significant capital investments. Tourism in the region is generally believed to be below pre-hurricane levels and may never return to such levels. As a result, future operating results at casinos in the region have been less predictable. Issues with respect to our insurance policies could affect our recovery of further insurance proceeds associated with the 2005 hurricane damage and related business interruption. We are currently in litigation with two insurance carriers regarding our right to recover further insurance proceeds from the damage to Casino Magic Biloxi, which was closed as a result of Hurricane Katrina and which we have now sold. In April 2006, we filed a claim for $347 million for property damage and business interruption incurred at the Casino Magic Biloxi site as a result of Hurricane Katrina. We have since revised our estimate of the value of our insurance claim, before consideration of any litigation claim for interest or bad-faith damages, to approximately $297 million. Such insurance claim includes approximately $171 million for property damage, approximately $120 million for business-interruption loss and approximately $5.7 million for emergency, mitigation and demolition expenses. We have received $105 million in advances as of December 31, 2007 towards our insurance claim and have reached a recent settlement with one insurance carrier for an additional approximately $36.8 million. We continue to litigate with the two remaining defendant insurance carriers regarding our right to recover further insurance proceeds with respect to our claim. It is uncertain whether our damage claim will be sustained or whether we will be fully compensated for all losses sustained due to the closure of the Biloxi facility or whether we will be paid on a timely basis. Some of our insurance carriers have indicated to us that their estimate of the total loss is approximately $176 million. The recent settlement implies a negotiated level of loss less than the claimed amount of $297 million, but we have preserved all of our rights to pursue our full claim, plus interest, bad-faith and punitive damages against the two remaining insurance carriers that have withheld payment. We participated in a mediation with two of our three insurance carriers in September 2007; the recent settlement was reached with one of such insurance carriers. We recently agreed to 19 Table of Contents attempt mediation with the third insurance carrier. While we believe it is unlikely that we will reach a mediated settlement, the mediator is continuing to try to help us and the two remaining insurance carriers reach a consensus. Recent natural disasters have made it more challenging for us to obtain similar levels of Weather Catastrophe Occurrence/Named Windstorm, Flood and Earthquake insurance coverage for our properties compared to the levels before the 2005 hurricanes. Because of significant loss experience caused by hurricanes and other natural disasters over the last several years, a number of insurance companies have stopped writing insurance in Class 1 hurricane areas, including Louisiana and Mississippi. Others have significantly limited the amount of coverage they will write in these markets and have dramatically increased the premiums charged for this coverage. As a result, our policy limits for Weather Catastrophe Occurrences/Named Windstorms as well as other losses are significantly less than the policy limits we had during the 2005 hurricane season. During that period, our aggregate Weather Catastrophe Occurrence coverage was $400 million per occurrence. Our coverage for a Named Windstorm today is $200 million per occurrence, with a deductible of 5% of stated values. Above this $200 million limit, we have an additional $200 million of coverage per occurrence, but excluding Named Windstorms. If any of our properties suffer a Named Windstorm, any damages in excess of the coverage limits will likely be borne by us. A Weather Catastrophe Occurrence is defined in the 2005-2006 policies as “all loss or damage occurring during a period of 72 consecutive hours, which is caused by or results from a storm or weather disturbance, which is named by the National Weather Service or any other recognized meteorological authority. Storm or weather disturbance includes all weather phenomena associated with or occurring in conjunction with the storm or weather disturbance, including, but not limited to flood, wind, hail, sleet, tornadoes, hurricane or lightning.” A Named Windstorm is defined in the 2007-2008 policies as “the direct action of wind including wind driven rain, storm surge and resulting waves, tide or tidal water, tsunami, rapid accumulation of surface waters, or the rising (including overflow of breaking of boundaries) of lakes, reservoirs, rivers, streams or other bodies of water that has been declared by the National Weather Service to be a Hurricane, Typhoon, Tropical Cyclone or Tropical Storm.” We operate in a highly taxed industry and may be subject to higher taxes in the future. In most gaming jurisdictions, state and local governments raise considerable revenues from taxes based on casino revenues and operations. We also pay property taxes, admission taxes, sales and use taxes, payroll taxes, franchise taxes and income taxes. Our profitability depends on generating enough revenues to pay gaming taxes and other largely variable expenses, such as payroll and marketing, as well as largely fixed expenses, such as our property taxes and interest expense. From time to time, state and local governments have increased gaming taxes and such increases can significantly impact the profitability of gaming operations. We cannot assure you that governments in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the federal government, will not enact legislation that increases gaming tax rates. We could lose the right to pursue our River City project if we fail to meet the conditions imposed by the Missouri Gaming Commission. We have entered into a lease and development agreement with St. Louis County Port Authority with respect to our River City project. The St. Louis County Port Authority may terminate the lease and development agreement under certain instances. Under the lease and development agreement, if we fail to complete the applicable project in accordance with its terms, we will owe monetary penalties and liquidated damages and could lose the right to continue to pursue such project, irrespective of the substantial investments made to date. 20 Table of Contents One of our subsidiaries was selected by the MGC to proceed for licensing for the operation of the River City casino. The issuance of the operating license is subject to, among other requirements: (i) the completion of construction of the facility by a certain completion date; (ii) the construction of a road for access to the facility by a certain completion date; (iii) maintaining an interest coverage ratio (as defined by the MGC) of at least 2.0x; (iv) compliance with the statutory requirements regarding riverboat gaming, including the requirement that the casino is located within 1,000 feet of the Mississippi River; and (v) the suitability of Pinnacle and its key persons as defined by Missouri law. The issuance of the operating license is in the discretion of the MGC. Although our subsidiary was selected by the MGC to proceed for licensing, it is uncertain whether the license will ultimately be granted. We have invested a significant amount of capital in this project, which may be lost or difficult to recoup in the event that the license is not ultimately granted to us by the MGC. Our industry is highly regulated, which makes us dependent on obtaining and maintaining gaming licenses and subjects us to potentially significant fines and penalties. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive state and local regulation. The statutes, rules and regulations of the states and local jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries conduct gaming operations require us to hold various licenses, registrations, permits and approvals and to obtain findings of suitability. The various regulatory authorities, including the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Missouri Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, the Nevada Gaming Commission, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, the Government of the Province of Neuquén, Argentina and The Gaming Board of The Bahamas may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend, revoke or fail to renew a license to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authorities. Substantial fines or forfeitures of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our gaming facilities. However, it is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits, approvals and findings of suitability that may be required in the future or that existing ones will be renewed or will not be suspended or revoked. Any expansion of our gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or into new jurisdictions may require various additional licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals of the gaming authorities. The approval process can be time consuming and costly and has no assurance of success. Certain past transactions by a few employees of our Argentine subsidiary may not have complied with law and may subject our Argentine subsidiary to fines or other penalties. We previously reported that a small number of employees of our Argentine subsidiary participated in transactions with certain third parties to transfer funds to Argentina using our Argentine subsidiary’s U.S. bank accounts. These transactions may not have complied with certain laws of Argentina, principally the currency exchange control laws. We believe that the amount of funds transferred totaled approximately $1.7 million in the aggregate. Based on an independent investigation of this matter, we do not believe that any funds of our subsidiary were misappropriated. We have reported the transactions to the Argentine authorities and have terminated certain of our employees. We also have informed our U.S. state gaming regulators of this matter. At this time, we do not know whether our Argentine subsidiary will have to pay a penalty or be subject to other consequences as a result of the transactions. Potential changes in the regulatory environment could harm our business. From time to time, legislators and special-interest groups have proposed legislation that would restrict or prevent gaming operations. Changes in regulations affecting the casino business can affect our existing or proposed operations. For example, on February 7, 2007, the city council of Atlantic City passed an ordinance 21 Table of Contents prohibiting smoking in 75% of the gaming areas in Atlantic City casinos. This placed casinos in Atlantic City at a competitive disadvantage to certain casinos in Pennsylvania and New York and on tribal lands in Connecticut. Similarly, the city of Neuquén banned smoking in our Neuquén casino in Argentina, which ban does not apply to our competition in neighboring Rio Negro, Argentina. This has negatively affected our business. Other restrictions or prohibitions on our current or future gaming operations could curtail our operations and could result in decreases in income. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on us. A majority of our revenues are attributable to slot machines at our casinos. It is important for competitive reasons that we offer the most popular and up-to-date slot machine games with the latest technology to our customers. We believe that in recent years the prices of new slot machines and related slot machine systems have escalated faster than the rate of inflation. Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participating lease arrangements. Generally, a participating lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines, slot machine systems, or enter into participating lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participating lease costs, it could affect our profitability. Adverse weather conditions, highway construction, gasoline shortages and other factors affecting our facilities and the areas in which we operate could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. Our continued success depends upon our ability to draw customers from each of the geographic markets in which we operate. Adverse weather conditions or highway construction can deter our customers from traveling to our facilities or make it difficult for them to frequent our properties. In addition, gasoline shortages or fuel price increases in regions that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. We believe that the vast majority of our customers drive to our properties. Our small Bahamian casino, however, is highly dependent on air service to the island of Great Exuma. Our dockside gaming facilities in Indiana, Louisiana and Missouri, as well as any additional riverboat or dockside casino properties that might be developed or acquired, are also subject to risks, in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, which could disrupt our operations. Although none of our vessels leave their moorings in normal operations, there are risks associated with the movement or mooring of vessels on waterways, including risks of casualty due to river turbulence, flooding, collisions with other vessels and severe weather conditions. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, or other catastrophic events, including war and terrorism. Natural disasters such as major hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes could adversely affect our business and operating results. Hurricanes are common to the areas in which our Louisiana properties are located and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. In 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage in the Gulf Coast region. Our Biloxi facility was destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. Our Boomtown New 22 Table of Contents Orleans casino was forced to close for 34 days as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Hurricane Rita caused significant damage in the Lake Charles, Louisiana area and forced our L’Auberge du Lac resort to close for 16 days in addition to causing physical damage. Atlantic City is on a barrier island and could also be susceptible to hurricanes and storm surges. We cannot accurately predict the long-term impact that the recent hurricanes or any future natural disasters will have on our ability to maintain our customer base or to sustain our business activities. Catastrophic events such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions) and tourism. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which such events may affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or choose to purchase any insurance coverage with respect to occurrences of terrorist acts and any losses that could result from these acts. If there is a prolonged disruption at our properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, or if several of our properties simultaneously experience such events, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The loss of management and other key personnel could significantly harm our business. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the efforts and skills of our senior executives and management team, including Daniel R. Lee, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Lee and certain of our other senior executives and managers, we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. If we lose the services of any members of our management team or other key personnel, our business may be significantly impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior executive and management personnel or attract additional qualified senior executive and management personnel. In addition, our officers, directors and key employees also are required to file applications with the gaming authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to be licensed or found suitable by these gaming authorities. If the gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could significantly impair our gaming operations. We experience seasonal fluctuations that significantly impact our operating results. We experience significant fluctuations in our operating results due to seasonality and other factors. Historically, the summer months are our strongest period and the winter months are our slowest period. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. From time to time during the normal course of operating our businesses, we are subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might also be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses. We face environmental and archaeological regulation of our real estate. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental statutes and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with such laws could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations by government agencies or 23 Table of Contents courts of law or the incurrence of significant costs of remediation of hazardous materials. A material fine or penalty, severe operational or development restriction, or imposition of material remediation costs could adversely affect our business. In addition, the locations of our current or future developments may coincide with sites containing archaeologically significant artifacts, such as Native American remains and artifacts. Federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the protection of such sites may require us to modify, delay or cancel construction projects at significant cost to us. We face risks associated with growth and acquisitions. We regularly evaluate opportunities for growth through development of gaming operations in existing or new markets, through acquiring other gaming entertainment facilities or through redeveloping our existing facilities. For example, we acquired the Atlantic City site and entities that hold two riverboats and gaming operations to be used in our Sugarcane Bay and Rivière projects. The expansion of our operations, whether through acquisitions, development or internal growth, could divert management’s attention and could also cause us to incur substantial costs, including legal, professional and consulting fees. It is uncertain that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Additionally, it is uncertain that we will receive gaming or other necessary licenses or governmental approvals for our new projects or that gaming will be approved in jurisdictions where it is not currently approved. Further, we may not have adequate financing for such opportunities on acceptable terms. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides certain “safe harbor” provisions for forward-looking statements. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC or statements made by us, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. From time to time, we may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in our other periodic reports on Form 10-Q, 8-K, press releases and other materials released to the public. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any documents we incorporate by reference are made pursuant to the Act. Words such as, but not limited to, “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “is fairly confident” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements, which may include, without limitation, anticipated completion and opening schedules of various projects, expansion plans, construction schedules, cash needs, cash reserves, adequacy of resources to fund development and expansion projects, liquidity, operating and capital expenses, financing options, including the state of the capital markets and our ability to access the capital markets, expense reductions, expected receipts of insurance proceeds including the amount of any such recovery and sufficiency of such coverage, the future outlook of Pinnacle and the gaming industry, the ability to meet the fixed-charge coverage ratio required by the MGC, our continuing exclusivity rights to operate casinos in Neuquén, Argentina after 2016, operating results and pending regulatory and legal matters, are all subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by us. This can occur as a result of inaccurate assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause our actual performance to differ materially from that contemplated by such forward-looking statements include, among others, the various risk factors discussed above, in addition to general domestic and international economic and political conditions as well as market conditions in our industry. For more information on the potential factors that could affect our operating results and financial condition in addition to the risk factors described above, see the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting Future Operating Results” sections contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and review our other filings (other than any portion of such filings that are furnished under applicable SEC Rules rather than filed) with the SEC. 24 Table of Contents All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 