Item 1A. Risk FactorsAn investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent to our business. We have described below what we currently believe to be the material risks and uncertainties in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also face other risks and uncertainties beyond what is described below. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of securities, including our common stock, could decline significantly. You could lose all or part of your investment. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in consumers' discretionary spending as a result of downturns in the economy or other changes we cannot accurately predict. Demand for entertainment and leisure activities is sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes, and thus demand can be affected by changes in the economy that we cannot predict. Perceived or actual unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, including recession, economic slowdown, continued high unemployment levels, the current housing and credit crises, the potential for bank failures, higher fuel or other transportation costs, and changes in consumer confidence, may reduce disposable income of our customers or result in fewer patrons visiting our casinos. As a result, we cannot ensure that demand for entertainment and leisure activities will not be adversely affected. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, potentially rising interest rates, increasing energy costs, rising prices, inflation, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence or significant declines in the stock market could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on entertainment and leisure activities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A deterioration in operating results could affect our ability to comply with financial covenant ratios, other covenants and requirements in our amended and restated credit facility discussed in another risk factor below. The global financial crisis and recession has affected our business and financial condition, and may continue to affect us in ways that we currently cannot accurately predict. The continued credit crisis, recession and related turmoil in the global financial system have had and may continue to have an effect on our business and financial condition. We do not know the duration or severity of the current recession. If a significant percentage of our lenders under our amended and restated credit facility were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we may not have the liquidity to fund our current projects. There is no certainty that our lenders will continue to remain solvent or fund their respective obligations under our amended and restated credit facility. Two of our lenders under our previous credit facility filed for bankruptcy, and one such lender was unable to fund its pro-rata share of amounts drawn under the revolving credit commitment post bankruptcy filing. The significant distress recently experienced by financial institutions has had and may continue to have far reaching adverse consequences across many industries, including the gaming industry. The recent credit and liquidity crisis greatly restricted the availability of capital and caused the cost of capital (if available) to be much higher than it had traditionally been. Volatility in the capital markets is perceived to be high. The need to access the capital markets could increase the costs of our projects, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and our ability or willingness to fund our development projects. All of these effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial development plans for capital-intensive projects will require us to borrow significant amounts under our amended and restated credit facility and, depending on which projects are pursued to completion, may cause us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. Currently, we are in the process of constructing our casino hotel project in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, which is currently expected to open in the first quarter of 2012. The budget for the project is $357 million (exclusive of land costs and capitalized interest). Additional amounts are also needed to fund the initial operations of the facility once it opens. As of December 31, 2010, we have spent approximately $38.0 million and we expect to fund the remaining $319 million of the overall project budget, as well as the funding of initial operations, with cash on-hand, cash flow from existing operations, and our $375 million credit facility. In the event that our future cash flows from operations do not match the levels we currently anticipate, whether due to downturns in the economy or otherwise, we may need to amend the terms of our credit facility or obtain waivers from our lenders in order to continue with our current development plans. We may not be able to obtain such an amendment or 7Table of Contentswaiver from our lenders. In such event, we may need to raise funds through the capital markets. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could adversely affect our financial health; future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining additional financing; and we may experience adverse effects of interest-rate fluctuations. As of December 31, 2010, we had indebtedness of approximately $1.2 billion. Our amended and restated credit facility consists of a $375 million revolving credit facility, which is currently undrawn as of December 31, 2010. Letters of credit of $9.3 million were outstanding as of December 31, 2010 under our amended and restated credit facility. While we believe that we have sufficient cash and cash-generating resources to meet our debt service obligations during the next 12 months, it is uncertain in the future whether we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through asset sales to meet our long-term debt service obligations. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as:• making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing without restructuring the covenants in our existing indebtedness to permit the incurrence of such financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for payments on the debt and related interest, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; • causing us to incur higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates or in the event of refinancing existing debt at higher interest rates; • limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; • increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt or greater resources; and • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before its maturity. In such circumstances, it is uncertain that we will be able to refinance any of our debt. Our future operating performance and our ability to service or refinance our debt will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our borrowings under our revolving amended and restated credit facility are at variable rates of interest, and to the extent not protected with interest rate hedges, could expose us to market risk from adverse changes in interest rates. We currently have no such interest rate hedges. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable-rate indebtedness could increase significantly even though the amount borrowed would remain the same. This may only be partially offset by earning higher rates of interest on surplus cash balances, if any. 8Table of ContentsOur indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us. Our amended and restated credit facility and the indentures governing our 8.75% senior subordinated notes due 2020, 8.625% senior notes due 2017 and 7.50% senior subordinated notes due 2015 impose various customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries. The restrictions that are imposed under these debt instruments include, among other obligations, limitations on our and our subsidiaries' ability to:• incur additional debt; • make payments on subordinated obligations; • make dividends or distributions and repurchase stock; • make investments; • grant liens on our property to secure debt; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • sell assets or enter into mergers or consolidations; • sell equity interests in our subsidiaries; • create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting our subsidiaries; • change the nature of our lines of business; • make capital expenditures; • designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries; and • amend or modify our subordinated indebtedness without obtaining consents from the holders of our senior indebtedness. Our amended and restated credit facility imposes various customary affirmative covenants on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among others, reporting covenants, covenants to maintain insurance, comply with laws and maintain properties and other covenants customary in senior credit financings of this type. In addition, our amended and restated credit facility requires that we comply with various restrictive maintenance financial covenants, including an interest coverage ratio, a debt to annualized Adjusted EBITDA (as defined) ratio, and capital spending limits. Furthermore, the covenants in our amended and restated credit facility include a requirement that an "in-balance" test be satisfied for each development project involving a commitment of funds equal to or exceeding $75 million. In general, the "in-balance" test requires that, as of the date of determination prior to commencement of construction, as such term is defined in our amended and restated credit facility, the estimated sources of funds for the project exceed the estimated project uses of funds for such project and for all other projects for which construction has commenced for the period from such date of determination through the date six full months after the scheduled opening date of such project. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the "in-balance" test for each of our projects on the applicable determination date. Our ability to comply with the covenants contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control, including delay in the completion of new projects under construction. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness, including our amended and restated credit facility and the indentures governing the senior notes and senior subordinated notes, including failure to comply as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition and our ability to comply with the conditions of the Louisiana Gaming Control Board in connection with our Baton Rouge project discussed in another risk factor below. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, 9Table of Contentsrefinance or restructure the payments on any of those debt instruments. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be realized, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our amended and restated credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, as we undertake substantial new developments or facility renovations or if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements and our debt service requirements may increase significantly. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our amended and restated credit facility, our existing senior and senior subordinated notes, on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all, particularly because of our anticipated high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt. Our future operating performance and our ability to service, extend or refinance our existing indebtedness will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Insufficient or lower-than-expected results generated from our new developments and acquired properties may negatively affect the market for our securities; our new properties may compete with our existing properties. We cannot assure you that the revenues generated from our new developments and acquired properties will be sufficient to pay related expenses if and when these developments are completed; or, even if revenues are sufficient to pay expenses, that the new developments and acquired properties will yield an adequate return on our significant investments. Our projects, if completed, may take significantly longer than we expect to generate returns, if any. Moreover, lower-than-expected results from the opening of a new facility may negatively affect us and the market for our securities and may make it more difficult to raise capital, even as the shortfall increases the need to raise capital. We are currently developing a new facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. As our new properties open, they may compete with our existing properties. For example, our River City Casino in St. Louis County, Missouri, which opened on March 4, 2010, is located approximately 12 miles from our Lumière Place facility in St. Louis, Missouri and may divert business away from such location. Rising operating costs at our gaming properties could have a negative impact on our business. The operating expenses associated with our gaming properties could increase due to, among other reasons, the following factors: • changes in the federal, state or local tax or regulations, including state gaming regulations or taxes, could impose additional restrictions or increase our operating costs;• our properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy, and energy price increases may adversely affect our cost structure; • our properties use significant amounts of water, and a water shortage may adversely affect our operations; • an increase in the cost of health care benefits for our employees could have a negative impact on our profitability; • our reliance on slot play revenues and the concentration of relatively few slot play vendors could impose additional costs on us; • as our properties age, we may need to increase our expenditures for repairs, maintenance, and to replace equipment necessary to operate our business in amounts greater than what we have spent historically; • aggressive marketing and promotional campaigns by our competitors for an extended period of time could force us to increase our expenditures for marketing and promotional campaigns in order to maintain our existing customer base and attract new customers;• availability and cost of the many products and services we provide our customers, including food, beverages, retail 10Table of Contentsitems, entertainment, hotel rooms, spa and golf services; and• availability and cost associated with insurance. If our operating expenses increase without any off-setting increase in our revenues, our profitability is likely to suffer. We are engaged from time to time in one or more construction and development projects, and many factors could prevent us from completing them as planned, including the escalation of construction costs beyond increments anticipated in our construction budgets. Construction of major buildings has certain inherent risks, including the risks of fire, structural collapse, human error and electrical, mechanical and plumbing malfunction. In addition, projects entail additional risks related to structural heights and the required use of cranes. Our development and expansion projects also entail significant risks, including: • shortages of materials; • shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; • unforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, excavation, environmental or geological problems; • natural disasters, hurricanes, weather interference, floods, fires, earthquakes or other casualty losses or delays; • unanticipated cost increases or delays in completing the projects; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain or maintain necessary licenses or permits; • changes to plans or specifications; • disputes with contractors; • disruption of our operations caused by diversion of management's attention to new development projects and construction at our existing properties;• remediation of environmental contamination at some of our proposed construction sites, which may prove more difficult or expensive than anticipated in our construction budgets; • failure to obtain and maintain necessary gaming regulatory approvals and licenses, or failure to obtain such approvals and licenses on a timely basis; and • requirements or government-established "goals" concerning union labor or requiring that a portion of the project expenditures be through companies controlled by specific ethnic or gender groups, goals that may not be obtainable, or may only be obtainable at additional project cost. Increases in the cost of raw materials for construction, driven by worldwide demand, higher labor and construction costs and other factors, may cause price increases beyond those anticipated in the budgets for our development projects. Escalating construction costs may cause us to modify the design and scope of projects from those initially contemplated or cause the budgets for those projects to be increased. We generally carry insurance to cover certain liabilities related to construction, but not all risks are covered, and it is uncertain whether such insurance will provide sufficient payment in a timely fashion even for those risks that are insured and material to us. It is uncertain whether any of our projects will be completed on time or within established budgets. For example, the Company is continuing its construction on the Baton Rouge project. Because of low Mississippi River water levels, we are currently unable to move the casino vessel hulls to our construction site. As a result, management currently expects the opening of our Baton Rouge project to be delayed beyond December 2011 until the first quarter of 2012. However, the ultimate opening date is dependent upon the Mississippi River water levels. Significant delays or cost overruns related to our construction projects could significantly reduce any return on our investment in these projects and adversely affect our earnings and financial resources. There are also certain tax incentives for project construction in hurricane-damaged areas and for economic-oriented reasons that require completion of new facilities by certain dates. There is no certainty that such dates will be met. Construction of our development projects exposes us to risks of cost overruns due to typical construction uncertainties associated with any project or changes in the designs, plans or concepts of such projects. For these and other reasons, construction costs may exceed the estimated cost of completion, notwithstanding the existence of any guaranteed maximum 11Table of Contentsprice construction contracts. Our operations are largely dependent on the skill and experience of our management and key personnel. The loss of management and other key personnel could significantly harm our business, and we may not be able to effectively replace members of management who have left the company. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the efforts and skills of our senior executives and management team. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our senior executives and key personnel, we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. If we lose the services of any members of our management team or other key personnel, our business may be significantly impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior executive and management personnel or attract additional qualified senior executive and management personnel. In addition, our officers, directors and key employees also are required to file applications with the gaming authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to be licensed or found suitable by these gaming authorities. If the gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. Furthermore, the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could significantly impair our operations. The gaming industry is very competitive and increased competition, including by Native American gaming facilities and internet gaming, could adversely affect our profitability. We face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate. With fewer new markets opening for development in recent years, this competition will intensify if new gaming operations enter our markets or existing competitors expand their operations. Increased competitive pressures may adversely affect our ability to continue to attract customers or require us to offer a larger number of, or more costly, promotions to compete more efficiently. Further, several of our properties are located in jurisdictions that restrict gaming to certain areas and/or are adjacent to states that currently prohibit or restrict gaming operations. Economic difficulties faced by state governments could lead to intensified political pressures for the legalization of gaming in jurisdictions where it is currently prohibited. The legalization of gaming in such jurisdictions could be an expansion opportunity for us, or a significant threat to us, depending on where the legalization occurs and our ability to capitalize on it. In particular, our ability to attract customers to our existing casinos would be significantly affected by the legalization or expansion of gaming in Texas, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Oklahoma, and California and the development or expansion of Native American casinos in our markets. The value of our site in Atlantic City has adversely been affected and may be further affected by the legislation or expansion of casino gaming in Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York, northern New Jersey or Connecticut. In 2008 and 2009, we recorded impairments to the value of our land in Atlantic City totaling approximately $357 million. In the past, legislation to legalize or expand gaming has been introduced in some of these jurisdictions, and federal law favors the expansion of Native American gaming. In 2007, Indiana approved casinos with 2,000 slot machines at each of two racetracks in the Indianapolis area, both of which opened in 2008. In 2008, New York approved a significant reduction in its gaming tax rate as a specific inducement for a large casino hotel in the Catskills region. In 2008, Maryland voters approved a state constitutional amendment allowing 15,000 slot machines total in five locations. In 2009, legislation to approve up to 12 resort casinos, slot machines at racetracks and Native American gaming in Texas was rejected during the state's 2009 legislative session. In January 2010, Delaware passed legislation that allows table games at three racetracks in the state, which are currently operational. Also, in January 2010, Pennsylvania passed legislation which allows slots-only casinos in Pennsylvania to feature table games, which are now operational. We expect similar proposals to legalize or expand gaming will be made in the future in various states, and it is uncertain whether such proposals will be successful. Further, because the global economic recession has reduced the revenues of state governments from traditional tax sources, voters and state legislatures may be more sympathetic to proposals authorizing or expanding gaming in those jurisdictions. Even in gaming markets where the state governments do not choose to increase the maximum number of gaming licenses available, we face the risk that existing casino licensees will expand their operations and the risk that Native American gaming will continue to grow. Furthermore, Native American gaming facilities frequently operate under regulatory requirements and tax environments that are less stringent than those imposed on state-licensed casinos, which could provide such Native American gaming facilities with a competitive advantage in our markets. On April 13, 2010, we canceled our Sugarcane Bay casino development in Lake Charles, Louisiana and, on April 14, 2010, 12Table of Contentswe surrendered the related gaming license to the Louisiana Gaming Control Board. The number of licenses in Louisiana are capped. In February 2011, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board granted a conditional license for a new gaming facility in Lake Charles, which is adjacent to our L'Auberge du Lac casino. A new casino in Lake Charles would compete directly with L'Auberge du Lac and may reduce such property's revenues significantly. In addition, a competitor in Louisiana recently announced an expansion which would increase its number of rooms by 401 to a total of over 950 rooms. In 2009, the Governor of Ohio issued a directive order authorizing up to 2,500 video lottery terminals at the state's seven existing racetracks. While the directive order authorized the Ohio Lottery Commission to take the steps necessary to implement the video lottery terminals, no such action was taken. In November 2010, the Ohio Governor lost his re-election bid. At this time, it is unclear whether the new governor will direct the Ohio Lottery Commission to move forward with the implementation of video lottery terminals at racetracks or whether the state Legislature will pass legislation authorizing video lottery terminals at racetracks. On January 28, 2011, we closed on the acquisition of the River Downs racetrack in Cincinnati, Ohio. There can be no assurance that video lottery terminals will become operational at racetracks in Ohio. If video lottery terminals become operational at racetracks in Ohio, we will still face competition from existing riverboats and from the four casinos, which are to be located in each of Cincinnati, Cleveland, Toledo, and Columbus. From time to time, our competitors refurbish, rebrand or expand their casino offerings in the markets in which we operate, which could function to increase competition in those markets. For example, a large competitor of our Belterra property recently reopened a rebranded and refurbished riverboat casino in Lawrenceburg, Indiana replacing a smaller facility. We face competition from racetracks that offer slot machines. We also compete with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as bingo, pull-tab games, card parlors, sports books, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse and dog racing, state-sponsored lotteries, video lottery terminals, video poker terminals and, in the future, we may compete with gaming at other venues. Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are often illegal under federal law but operate from overseas locations, and are nevertheless sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. There are also proposals that would specifically legalize internet gaming under federal law. Our industry is highly regulated, which makes us dependent on obtaining and maintaining gaming licenses and subjects us to potentially significant fines and penalties. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive state and local regulation. The statutes, rules and regulations of the states and local jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries conduct gaming operations require us to hold various licenses, registrations, permits and approvals and to obtain findings of suitability. The various regulatory authorities, including the Indiana Gaming Commission, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, the Missouri Gaming Commission, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, the Nevada Gaming Commission, the Ohio State Racing Commission and the Ohio Lottery Commission, may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend, revoke or fail to renew a license to conduct gaming operations or prevent us from owning the securities of any of our gaming subsidiaries for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authorities. Substantial fines or forfeitures of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved, including, but not limited to, our management, employees and holders of 5% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock. In addition, many of the Company's key vendors must be licensed and found suitable by regulatory authorities and there can be no assurance that such vendors will be able to be licensed and found suitable. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our existing gaming facilities. It is uncertain, however, whether we will be able to obtain any new licenses, registrations, permits, approvals and findings of suitability that may be required in the future or that existing ones will be renewed or will not be suspended or revoked. Any expansion of our gaming operations in our existing jurisdictions or into new jurisdictions may require various additional licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals of the gaming authorities. The approval process can be time consuming and costly, and there can be no assurance of success. We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages at our operating properties. If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could adversely affect our business. Potential changes in the regulatory environment could harm our business. Changes in regulations affecting the casino business can affect our existing or proposed operations. In addition, legislators 13Table of Contentsand special-interest groups have proposed legislation from time to time that would restrict or prevent gaming operations. Moreover, various jurisdictions such as Illinois, Delaware and New Jersey have restricted smoking on the casino floor. Such restrictions resulted in decreases in gaming revenues. Other regulatory restrictions or prohibitions on our current or future gaming operations could curtail our operations and could result in decreases in income. We may not meet the conditions for the maintenance of the license that we plan to utilize for our Baton Rouge project. The Louisiana Gaming Control Board, also referred to herein as the LGCB, has established numerous conditions for use of the license for our Baton Rouge project, which, if not satisfied, could result in forfeiture of such license. One such condition is that we deposit $25 million in an escrow account to be maintained until the commencement of gaming operations, which amount would be paid to the State of Louisiana in the event that we surrender the license due to withdrawal or cancellation of the Baton Rouge project or upon revocation of the license by the LGCB. While we intend to fulfill all conditions set by the LGCB, it is uncertain whether we will be able to do so or that the LGCB would agree to make any amendments to the conditions that might be necessary. Forfeiture of the license for our Baton Rouge project could adversely affect our expansion plans for the Louisiana gaming market. Because of low Mississippi River water levels, we are currently unable to move the casino vessel hulls to our construction site. As a result, management currently expects the opening of our Baton Rouge project to be delayed beyond December 2011 until the first quarter of 2012. However, the ultimate opening date is dependent upon the Mississippi River water levels. The Company will have to obtain an extension from the LGCB for our Baton Rouge project to permit a later opening date. There can be no assurance that the LGCB will approve an extension to permit a later opening date. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations that impose restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our securities. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations that relate to our current or future gaming operations and that impose certain restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our securities. Ownership and transfer of our securities could be subjected at any time to additional or more restrictive regulations, including regulations in applicable jurisdictions where there are no current restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our securities or in new jurisdictions where we may conduct our operations in the future. A detailed description of such regulations, including requirements under gaming laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, can be found in the Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. We operate in a highly taxed industry and it may be subject to higher taxes in the future. If the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, our operating results could be adversely affected. In gaming jurisdictions in which we operate, state and local governments raise considerable revenues from taxes based on casino revenues and operations. We also pay property taxes, admission taxes, sales and use taxes, payroll taxes, franchise taxes and income taxes. Our profitability depends on generating enough revenues to pay gaming taxes and other largely variable expenses, such as payroll and marketing, as well as largely fixed expenses, such as property taxes and interest expense. From time to time, state and local governments have increased gaming taxes and such increases can significantly impact the profitability of gaming operations. We cannot assure you that governments in jurisdictions in which we operate, or the federal government, will not enact legislation that increases gaming tax rates. The global economic recession has reduced the revenues of state governments from traditional tax sources, which may cause state legislatures or the federal government to be more inclined to increase gaming tax rates. Subsequent phases to certain of our existing projects and potential enhancements at our properties may require us to raise additional capital. We may need to access the capital markets or otherwise obtain additional funds to complete subsequent phases of our existing projects in downtown St. Louis and in St. Louis County and to fund potential enhancements we may undertake at our facilities. We do not know when or if the capital markets will permit us to raise additional funds in a timely manner, or on acceptable terms, or at all. Inability to access the capital markets, or the availability of capital only on less-than-favorable terms, may force us to delay, reduce or cancel our subsequent phases and enhancement projects. Delay, reduction or cancellation of the subsequent phases of our projects could subject us to financial penalties, and the possibility of such penalties could require us to obtain additional financing on unfavorable terms. 14Table of Contents Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future debt or equity offerings may also be limited by our financial condition, results of operations or other factors, such as our credit rating or outlook at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. As we seek additional financing, we will be subject to the risks of rising interest rates and other factors affecting the financial markets. We derived 52% of our revenues in 2010 from our casinos located in Louisiana and are especially subject to certain risks, including economic and competitive risks, associated with the conditions in that area and in the state from which we draw patrons. Three out of our seven gaming properties are located in Louisiana. During 2010, we derived 52% of our revenues from these three casinos and 31% from one of them, L'Auberge du Lac in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Because we derive a significant percentage of our revenues from a small number of properties concentrated in a relatively small area, we are subject to greater risks from local conditions than a gaming company with operating properties in several different markets. A decrease in revenues from or increase in costs for one of these locations is likely to have a proportionally higher impact on our business and operations than it would for a gaming company with more geographically diverse operating properties. Risks from local conditions include the following: • local economic conditions;• local competitive conditions; • reduced land and air travel due to increasing fuel costs or transportation disruptions; • inaccessibility of the area due to inclement weather, road construction or closure of primary access routes;• the outbreak of public health threats at any of our properties, or in the areas in which they are located, or the perception that such threats exist; and • a decline in the number of visitors to New Orleans, Louisiana. In February 2011, the Louisiana Gaming Control Board granted a conditional license for a new gaming facility in Lake Charles, which is adjacent to our L'Auberge du Lac casino. A new casino in Lake Charles would compete directly with L'Auberge du Lac and may reduce such property's revenues significantly. Adverse weather conditions, road construction, gasoline shortages and other factors affecting our facilities and the areas in which we operate could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting our properties. We believe that the vast majority of our customers drive to our properties. Our continued success depends upon our ability to draw customers from each of the geographic markets in which we operate. Adverse weather conditions or road construction can deter our customers from traveling to our facilities or make it difficult for them to frequent our properties. In addition, gasoline shortages or fuel price increases in regions that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could make it more difficult for potential customers to travel to our properties and deter customers from visiting. Our dockside gaming facilities in Indiana and Louisiana, as well as any additional riverboat or dockside casino properties that might be developed or acquired, are also subject to risks, in addition to those associated with land-based casinos, which could disrupt our operations. Although none of our vessels leave their moorings in normal operations, there are risks associated with the movement or mooring of vessels on waterways, including risks of casualty due to river turbulence, flooding, collisions with other vessels and severe weather conditions. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, or other catastrophic events, including war and terrorism. Natural disasters, such as major hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Hurricanes are common in the areas in which our Louisiana properties are located, and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. Our River City casino is located in St. Louis, Missouri in an area along the Mississippi River that has historically experienced flooding. Although its foundation is built up to be above historical flooding levels, there is no certainty that this will be sufficient in future floods. In 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage in the Gulf Coast 15Table of Contentsregion. Our former Biloxi, Mississippi facility was destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. Our Boomtown New Orleans casino was forced to close for 34 days as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Hurricane Rita caused significant damage in the Lake Charles, Louisiana area and forced our L'Auberge du Lac facility to close for 16 days, in addition to causing physical damage. In the third quarter of 2008, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which struck during two key weekends, affected our Louisiana operations and our Texas customer base. Hurricane Ike also caused flooding in St. Louis, necessitating the temporary closure of the President Casino, and caused a power outage over the course of two days at our Belterra Casino Resort in Indiana. Catastrophic events, such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere, have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions) and tourism. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which such events may affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or choose to purchase any insurance coverage with respect to occurrences of terrorist acts and any losses that could result from these acts. If there is a prolonged disruption at our properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our gaming operations rely heavily on technology services and an uninterrupted supply of electrical power. Our security system and all of our slot machines are controlled by computers and reliant on electrical power to operate. The absence of sufficient electrical power or a failure of the technology services needed to run our computers may cause us to be unable to run all or parts of gaming operations. Any unscheduled interruption in our technology services or interruption in the supply of electrical power is likely to result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues due to a shutdown of our gaming operations. Such interruptions may occur as a result of, for example, catastrophic events or rolling blackouts. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events. Natural disasters have made it more challenging for us to obtain similar levels of Weather Catastrophe Occurrence/Named Windstorm, Flood and Earthquake insurance coverage for our properties compared to the levels before the 2005 hurricanes. Because of significant loss experience caused by hurricanes and other natural disasters over the last several years, a number of insurance companies have stopped writing insurance in Class 1 hurricane areas, including Louisiana. Others have significantly limited the amount of coverage they will write in these markets and have dramatically increased the premiums charged for this coverage. As a result, our policy limits for Weather Catastrophe Occurrences/Named Windstorms, as well as other losses, are significantly less than the policy limits we had during the 2005 hurricane season. During that period, our aggregate Weather Catastrophe Occurrence coverage was $400 million per occurrence. Our coverage for a Named Windstorm today is $200 million per occurrence, with a deductible of 5% of stated values (up to a maximum $20 million deductible). In addition, as a result of the worldwide economic conditions, there has been uncertainty as to the viability of certain insurance companies. While we believe that the insurance companies from which we have purchased insurance policies will remain solvent, there is no certainty that this will be the case. We may incur property and other losses that are not adequately covered by insurance, which may harm our results of operations. Although we maintain insurance that our management believes is customary and appropriate for our business, we cannot assure you that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all loss and damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected. The lack of adequate insurance for certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses in the event that a catastrophe occurred for which we are uninsured or underinsured. Any losses we incur that are not adequately covered by insurance may decrease our future operating income, require us to find replacements or repairs for destroyed property and reduce the funds available for payments of our obligations. Climate change, climate change regulations and greenhouse effects may adversely impact our operations and markets. There is a growing political and scientific consensus that emissions of greenhouse gases, also referred to herein as "GHGs" continue to alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that are affecting and are expected to continue affecting the global climate. Climate change, including the impact of global warming, creates physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in precipitation and extreme weather events. Climate change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We have described the risks to us associated with extreme weather events above. 16Table of ContentsWe may become subject to legislation and regulation regarding climate change, and compliance with any new rules could be difficult and costly. Concerned parties, such as legislators and regulators, stockholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. Many states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce GHG emissions and federal legislation has been proposed in Congress. While little progress has been made on these proposals in Congress, it is likely that federal legislation limiting GHG emissions may be imposed in the United Sates soon. If such legislation is enacted, we could incur increased energy, environmental and other costs and capital expenditures to comply with the limitations. Unless and until legislation is enacted and its terms are known, we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate its impact on our financial condition, operating performance or ability to compete. Further, regulation of GHG emissions may limit our customers' ability to travel to our properties as a result of increased fuel costs or restrictions on transport related emissions. We could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. Work stoppages, organizing drives and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits. Although we are not currently a party to any collective bargaining agreements, a bargaining unit of Lumière Place Casino and Hotels' employees is union-represented and Lumière Place Casino and Hotels and the union are negotiating their first collective bargaining agreement. In addition, other of our employees have been approached by unions. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties or construction projects could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Labor unions are making a concerted effort to recruit more employees in the gaming industry. In addition, organized labor may benefit from new legislation or legal interpretations by the current presidential administration. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and more aggressive union activity in the future. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. From time to time during the normal course of operating our businesses, we are subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might also be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot accurately predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses. We face environmental and archaeological regulation of our real estate. Our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental statutes and regulations relating to activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water and use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. These laws and regulations are complex, and subject to change, and failure to comply with such laws could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on our operations by government agencies or courts of law or the incurrence of significant costs of remediation of spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contamination on its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants, and regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time that they occurred. We endeavor to maintain compliance with environmental laws, but from time to time, current or historical operations on, or adjacent to, our property may have resulted or may result in noncompliance with environmental laws or liability for cleanup pursuant to environmental laws. A material fine or penalty, severe operational or development restriction, or imposition of material remediation costs could adversely affect our business. In addition, the locations of our current or future developments may coincide with sites containing archaeologically significant artifacts, such as Native American remains and artifacts. Federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the protection of such sites may require us to modify, delay or cancel construction projects at significant cost to us. We face risks associated with growth and acquisitions. We regularly evaluate opportunities for growth through development of gaming operations in existing or new markets, through acquiring other gaming entertainment facilities or through redeveloping our existing facilities. The expansion of our operations, whether through acquisitions, development or internal growth, could divert management's attention and could also cause us to incur substantial costs, including legal, professional and consulting fees. It is uncertain that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Additionally, it is uncertain that we 17Table of Contentswill receive gaming or other necessary licenses or governmental approvals for our new projects or that gaming will be approved in jurisdictions where it is not currently approved. Further, we may not have adequate financing for such opportunities on acceptable terms. For example, on January 28, 2011, we acquired the River Downs racetrack in Cincinnati, Ohio for approximately $45 million with the expectation that video lottery terminals will become operational in Ohio. Before our acquisition of the River Downs racetrack, it had been operating at a loss and may continue doing so in the future. If the video lottery terminals do not become operational in Ohio, we will likely incur further losses in connection with the River Downs racetrack. Private Securities Litigation Reform ActThe Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) provides certain “safe harbor” provisions for forward-looking statements. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters addressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC or statements made by us, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. From time to time, we may provide oral or written forward-looking statements in our other periodic reports on Form 10-Q, Form 8-K, press releases and other materials released to the public. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any documents we incorporate by reference are made pursuant to the Act. Words such as, but not limited to, “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “should,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements, which may include, without limitation, expected results of operations, adequacy of resources to fund development and expansion projects, liquidity, financing options, including the state of the capital markets and our ability to access the capital markets, the state of the credit markets, the state of the economy, anticipated completion and opening schedule of our Baton Rouge project, anticipated results for our Baton Rouge project, expansion plans, construction schedules, video lottery terminals becoming operational at Ohio racetracks, cash needs, cash reserves, operating and capital expenses, expense reductions, the sufficiency of insurance coverage, anticipated marketing costs at various projects, the future outlook of Pinnacle and the gaming industry and pending regulatory and legal matters, are all subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by us. This can occur as a result of inaccurate assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause our actual performance to differ materially from that contemplated by such forward-looking statements include, among others, the various risk factors discussed above, in addition to general domestic and international economic and political conditions as well as market conditions in our industry. For more information on the potential factors that could affect our operating results and financial condition in addition to the risk factors described above, review our other filings (other than any portion of such filings that are furnished under applicable SEC Rules rather than filed) with the SEC.All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.18Table of Contents