ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) its affiliates. NJNG’s ability to obtain rate increases, extend its incentive programs and to maintain its current rates of return depends on regulatory discretion. There can be no assurance that NJNG will be able to obtain rate increases, continue its incentive programs or continue receiving its currently authorized rates of return. Significant regulatory assets recorded by NJNG could be disallowed for recovery from customers in the future NJNG records regulatory assets on its financial statements to reflect the rate-making nature and regulatory decision making of the BPU, as allowed by current accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The creation of a regulatory asset allows for the deferral of costs that NJNG would normally, absent the recovery mechanism in rates approved by the BPU to charge its customers, charge to expense on its income statement. Primary regulatory assets that are subject to BPU approval include the underrecovery of BGSS and Universal Service Fund (USF) costs, remediation costs associated with its MGP sites, the WNC and the New Jersey Clean Energy program. If there were to be a change in regulatory position surrounding the collection of these deferred costs there could be a material impact on NJNG’s financial position, operations and cash flows. NJR’s charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a transaction that stockholders would view as favorable The certificate of incorporation and bylaws of NJR, as well as New Jersey law, contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an unsolicited change in control of NJR, which may negatively affect the market price of the common stock or the ability of stockholders to participate in a transaction in which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in management. In addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as the board of directors may determine. The holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be negatively affected by, the rights of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, NJR is subject to the New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of NJR. Environmental Risks NJR costs of compliance with present and future environmental laws are significant and could adversely affect its cash flows and profitability NJR’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require NJR to expend significant financial resources to, among other things, conduct site remediation and perform environmental monitoring. If NJR fails to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, even if it is unable to do so due to factors beyond its control, it may be subject to civil liabilities or criminal penalties and may be required to incur significant expenditures to come into compliance. Additionally, any alleged violations of environmental laws and regulations may require NJR to expend significant resources in its defense against alleged violations. 19 New Jersey Resources Part I ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 