ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS < div style="line-height:120%;"> When considering any investment in NJR's securities, investors should consider the following information, as well as the information contained under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements,” in analyzing the Company's present and future business performance. While this list is not exhaustive, NJR's management also places no priority or likelihood based on their descriptions or orders of presentation. Financial Risks Inability of NJR and/or NJNG to access the financial markets and conditions in the credit markets could affect management's ability to execute their respective business plans. NJR relies on access to both short-term and long-term credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by its cash flow from operations. Any deterioration in NJR's financial condition could hamper its ability to access the credit markets or otherwise obtain debt financing. Because certain state regulatory approvals may be necessary in order for NJNG to incur debt, NJNG may not be able to access credit markets on a timely basis. External events could also increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to access the financial markets. Such external events could include the following: •economic weakness in the United States or in the regions where NJR operates; •financial difficulties of unrelated energy companies; •capital market conditions generally; font>Page 11New Jersey Resources CorporationPart I ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) •market prices for natural gas; •the overall health of the natural gas utility industry; and •fluctuations in interest rates NJR and its subsidiaries' ability to secure short-term financing is subject to conditions in the credit markets. A prolonged constriction of credit availability could affect management's ability to execute NJR's business plan. An inability to access capital may limit the ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that NJR, or its subsidiaries, may otherwise rely on for both current operations and future growth. Although N JRES and NJNG have strict credit risk management policies and procedures, they execute derivative transactions with financial institutions as a part of their economic hedging strategy and could incur losses associated with the inability of a financial counterparty to meet or perform under its obligations as a result of adverse conditions in the credit markets or their ability to access capital or post collateral. NJR is a holding company and depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. NJR is a holding company with no significant assets other than possible cash investments and the stock of its operating subsidiaries. NJR relies exclusively on dividends from its subsidiaries, on intercompany loans from its non-regulated subsidiaries, and on the repayments of principal and interest from intercompany loans made to its subsidiaries for its cash flows. NJR's ability to pay dividends on its common stock and to pay principal and accrued interest on its outstanding debt depends on the payment of dividends to NJR by certain of its subsidiaries or the repayment of loans to NJR by its principal subsidiaries. The extent to which NJR's subsidiaries do not pay dividends or repay funds to NJR may adversely affect its ability to pay dividends to holders of its common stock and principal and interest to holders of its debt. Credit rating downgrades could increase financing costs, limit access to the financial markets and negatively affect NJR and its subsidiaries. The debt of NJNG is currently rated by the rating agencies Moody's Investor Services, Inc. and Standard & Poor's as investment grade. If such ratings are downgraded below investment grade, borrowing costs could increase, as will the costs of maintaining certain contractual relationships and obtaining future financing. Even if ratings are downgraded without falling below investment grade, NJR and NJNG can still face increased borrowing costs under their currently existing cred it facilities. NJR and its subsidiaries' ability to borrow and costs of borrowing have a direct impact on its subsidiaries' ability to execute their operating strategies. Additionally, lower credit ratings could adversely affect relationships with NJNG's state regulators, who may be unwilling to allow NJNG to pass along increased costs to its natural gas customers. NJR is dependent on credit facilities and continued access to capital markets to execute its o perating strategies, and failure by NJR and/or NJNG to comply with debt covenants may impact NJR's financial condition. NJR and NJNG's long-term debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and an interest coverage ratio for NJNG. These debt obligations also contain provisions that put certain limitations on NJR's ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue certain business activities. For example, certain of these agreements contain provisions that, among other things, put limitations on our ability to make loans or investments, make material changes to the nature of our businesses, merge, consolidate or engage in asset sales, grant liens, or make negative pledges. Furthermore, the d ebt obligations contain covenants and other provisions requiring NJR or NJNG to make timely delivery of accurate financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations and/or the inability to borrow under existing revolving credit facilities. NJNG has relied, and continues to rely, upon short-term bank borrowings or commercial paper supported by its revolving credit facility to finance the execution of a portion of its operating strategies. NJNG is dependent on these capital sources to purchase its natural gas supply and maintain its properties. The acceleration of outstanding debt obligations of NJR or NJNG and their inability to borrow under their existing revolving credit facilities would cause a material adverse change in NJR or NJNG's financial condition. Page 12New Jersey Resources CorporationPart I ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) NJRES' and NJRCEV's ability to conduct their businesses is dependent upon the creditworthiness of NJR. If NJR suffers a reduction in its credit and borrowing capacity or in its ability to issue parental guarantees, the business prospects of NJRES and NJRCEV, which rely on the creditworthiness of NJR, would be adversely affected. NJRES would possibly be required to comply with various margin or other credit enhancement obligations under its trading and marketing contracts, and it may be unable to continue to trade or be able to do so only on less favorable terms with certain counterparties. In addition, NJRCEV would be required to seek alternative financing for its projects and may be unable to obtain such financing or able to do so only on less favorable terms. Continued failures in the market for auction-rate securities could have a negative impact on NJNG's financial condition. NJNG is obligated with respect to a total of 6 series of auction rate bonds totaling $97 million (collectively, auction-rate securities or “ARS”). All of the ARS are investment grade rated by Moody's Investor Services and Standard & Poor's. NJNG has been experiencing ARS failed auctions, which occur when there are not enough orders to purchase all of the securities being sold at the auction. The result of a failed auction, which does not signify a default by NJNG, is that the ARS continue to pay interest in accordance with their terms until there is a successful auction or until such time as other markets for these securities develop. However, upon an auction failure, the interest rates do not reset at a market rate established at an auction, but instead reset based upon a formula contained within the ARS, otherwise known as a “maximum auction rate,” which may be materially higher than the previous auction rate. The “maximum auction rate” for the ARS is the lesser of (i) 175 percent of one-month London inter-bank offered rate (LIBOR) or (ii) either 10 percent or 12 percent per annum, as applicable to such series of the ARS. Should future auctions fail and interest rates on the ARS continue to be established at the maximum au ction rate, NJNG's average cost of borrowing could rise above historic levels, which could materially and adversely affect both NJNG's and NJR's cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Although NJNG is reviewing alternative methods for refinancing the ARS on a continuing basis, NJNG cannot assure that alternative sources of financing can be implemented in a timely manner. The cost of providing pension and postemployment health care benefits to eligible former employees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may have a material adverse effect on NJR's financial results. NJR has 2 defined benefit pension plans and 2 postemployment health care plans (OPEB) for the benefit of eligible full-time employees and qualified retirees. The cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of the pension and OPEB fund assets, changing discount rates and changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of beneficiaries, an expected increase in the number of eligible former employees over the next 5 years, impacts from healthcare legislation and increases in health care costs. Any sustained declines in equity markets and/or reductions in bond yields may have a material adverse effect on the funded status of NJR's pension and OPEB plans. In these circumstances, NJR may be required to recognize increased pension and OPEB expenses and/or be required to make additional cash contributions into the plans. The funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in NJR's financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, continued losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. A continued downward pr essure on the asset values of these plans may require NJR to fund obligations earlier than it had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations, decrease NJR's borrowing capacity and increase its interest expense as a result of having to fund these obligations. Economic hedging activities of NJR designed to protect against commodity and financial market risks may cause fluctuations in reported financial results, and NJR's stock price could be adversely affected as a result. Although NJR uses derivatives, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage commodity and financial market risks, the timing of the recognition of gains or losses on these economic hedges in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles used in the United States of America (GAAP) does not always coincide with the gains or losses on the items being hedged. The difference in accounting can result in volatility in reported results, even though the expected profit margin is essentially unchanged from the dates the transactions were consummated. Page 13New Jersey Resources CorporationPart I ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) &nb sp; Operational Risks NJNG's operations are subject to certain operating risks incidental to handling, storing, transporting and providing customers with natural gas. NJNG's operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incidental to handling, storing, transporting and providing customers with natural gas. These risks include explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, fires, storms and other adverse weather conditions and hazards, each of which could result in damage to or destruction of facilities or damage to persons and property. If any of these events were to occur, NJNG could suffer substantial losses. Moreover, as a result, NJNG has been, and likely will be, a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Although NJNG maintains insurance coverage, insurance may not be sufficient to cover all material expenses related to these risks. Major changes in the supply and price of natural gas may affect financial results. While NJNG expects to provide for the demand of its customers for the foreseeable future, factors impacting suppliers and other third parties, including increased compe tition, further deregulation, transportation costs, possible climate change legislation, transportation availability and drilling for new natural gas resources, may impact the supply and price of natural gas. NJNG actively hedges against the fluctuation in the price of natural gas by entering into forward and financial contracts with third parties. Should these third parties fail to perform, it may result in a loss that could have a material impact on the financial position, cash flows and statement of operations of NJR. NJNG and NJRES rely on third parties to supply natural gas. NJNG's ability to provide natural gas for its present and projected sales will depend upon its suppliers' ability to obtain and deliver additional supplies of natural gas, as well as NJNG's ability to acquire supplies directly from new sources. Factors beyond the control of NJNG, its suppliers and the independent suppliers who have obligations to provide natural gas to certain NJNG customers, may affect NJNG's ability to deliver such supplies. These factors include other parties' control over the drilling of new wells and the facilities to transport natural gas to NJNG's city gate stations, competition for the acquisition of natural gas, priority allocations, impact of severe weather disruptions to natural gas supplies, the regulatory and pricing policies of federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as the availability of Canadian reserves for export to the United States. Energy d eregulation legislation may increase competition among natural gas utilities and impact the quantities of natural gas requirements needed for sales service. NJRES also relies on a firm supply source to meet its energy management obligations for its customers. Should NJRES' suppliers fail to deliver supplies of natural gas, there could be a material impact on its cash flows and statement of operations. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of NJRES' business co uld result in financial losses that negatively impact results of operations. NJRES uses derivatives, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage commodity and financial market risks. NJRES could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could adversely affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. Adverse economic conditions including inflation, increased natural gas costs, foreclosures, and business failures could adversely impact NJNG's customer collections and increase its level of indebtedness. Inflation may cause increases in certain operating and capital costs. NJR has a process in place to continually review the adequacy of NJNG's rates in relation to the increasing cost of providing service and the inherent regulatory lag in adjusting those rates. The ability to con trol expenses is an important factor that will influence future results. Rapid increases in the price of purchased gas may cause NJNG to experience a significant increase in short-term debt because it must pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be significantly in advance of when these costs may be recovered through the collection of monthly customer bills for gas delivered. Increases in purchased gas costs also slow collection efforts as customers are more likely to delay the payment of their gas bills, leading to higher-than-normal accounts receivable. In addition, Pag e 14New Jersey Resources CorporationPart I ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) &nb sp; the extended recession in the U.S. has led to increasing unemployment, foreclosures in the housing markets, and the discontinuation of some commercial businesses that f all within NJNG's service territory. These situations can result in higher short-term debt levels and increased bad debt expense. Changes in weather conditions may affect earnings and cash flows. Weather conditions and other natural phenomena can have an adverse impact on earnings and cash flows. Severe weather conditions can impact suppliers and the pipelines that deliver gas to NJNG's distribution system. Extended mild weather, during either the winter period or summer per iod, can have a significant impact on demand for and the cost of natural gas. While NJR believes the CIP mitigates the impact of weather variations on its gross margin, severe weather conditions may still have an impact on the ability of suppliers and pipelines to deliver the natural gas to NJNG, which can negatively affect NJR's earnings. The CIP does not mitigate the impact of unusual weather conditions on its cash flows. Changes in customer growth may affect earnings and cash flows. NJNG's ability to increase its utility firm gross margin is dependent upon the new construction housing market, as well as the conversion of customers to natural gas from other fuel sources. Should there be weakness in the housing market or a slowdown in the conversion market, there could be an adverse impact on NJNG's utility firm gross margin, earnings and cash flows. NJRES' earnings and cash flows are dependent upon an asset optimization strategy of its physical assets using financial transactions. NJRES' earnings and cash flows are based, in part, on its ability to optimize its portfolio of contractual-based natural gas storage and pipeline assets. The optimization strategy involves utilizing its physical assets to take advantage of differences in natural gas prices between geographic locations and/or time periods. Any change among various pricing points could affect these differentials. In addition, significant increases in the supply of natural gas in NJRES' market areas, for example that can occur as a result of increased production along the Marcellus Shale in the Appalachian basin, can reduce NJRES' ability to find opportunities going forward. Changes in pricing dynamics and supply could have an adverse impact on NJRES' optimization activities, earnings and cash flows. NJRES incurs fixed demand fees to acquire its contractual ri ghts to storage and transportation assets. Should commodity prices at various locations or time periods change in such a way that NJRES is not able to recover these costs from its customers, the cash flows and earnings at NJRES, and ultimately NJR, could be adversely impacted. NJRES is exposed to market risk and may incur losses in wholesale services. The storage and transportation portfolios at NJRES consist of contracts to transport and store natural gas commodities. If th e values of these contracts change in a direction or manner that NJRES does not anticipate, the value of NJRES' portfolio could be negatively impacted. In addition, upon expiration of these storage and transportation contracts, to the extent that they are renewed or replaced at less favorable terms, NJR's results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. NJNG and NJRES rely on storage and transportation assets that they do not own or control to deliver natural gas. NJNG and NJRES depend on natural gas pipelines and other storage and transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver natural gas to wholesale markets and to provide retail energy services to customers. If transportation or storage is disrupted, including for reasons of force majeure, the ability of NJNG and NJRES to sell and deliver their products and services may be hindered. As a result, they may be responsible for damages incurred by their customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative supply at then-current market rates. Investing through partnerships or joint ventures decreases NJR's ability to manage risk. NJR and its subsidiaries have utilized joint ventures for certain non-regulated energy investments, including Steckman Ridge and Iroquois, and although they currently have no specific plans to do so, NJR and its subsidiaries may acquire interests in other joint ventures in the future. In these joint ventures, NJR and its subsidiaries may not have the right or power to direct the management and policies of the joint ventures, and other participants may take action contrary to their instructions or requests and against their policies and objectives. In addition, the other participants may become bankrupt or have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of NJR and its subsidiaries. If a joint venture participant acts contrary to the interests of NJR or its subsidiaries, it could harm NJR's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Page 15New Jersey Resources CorporationPart I ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued)< font style="font-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;font-weight:bold;text-align:left;text-decoration:underline;vertical-align:bottom;"> Our investments in solar energy projects are subject to substantial risks. Commercial and residential solar energy projects such as those we are investing in are relatively new and have been developed through advancement in technologies whose commercial application is limited, and which are unrelated to our core businesses. These projects are dependent upon currently existing favorable regulatory and tax incentives and there is uncertainty about the extent to which such incentives will be available in the future. The potential return on in vestment of these projects is based substantially on our eligibility for federal investment tax credits (ITCs) and the future market for Solar Renewable Energy Credits (SRECs) that are traded in a competitive marketplace in the state of New Jersey. As a result, these solar projects face the risk that the currently favorable regulatory regimes and tax laws expire or are adversely modified in the future during the life of the projects. In addition, because these projects depend on technology outside of our expertise, there are risks associated with our ability to develop and manage such projects profitably, including logistical risks and potential delays related to construction, permitting, regulatory approvals and electric grid interconnection. All of the aforementioned risks could reduce the availability of viable solar energy projects for development. Furthermore, at the development or acquisition stage, because of the nascent nature of the solar energy industry and the limited experience with the relevant technology, our ability to predict actual performance results may be hindered and the projects may not perform as predicted. Regulatory and Legal Risks NJR is subje ct to governmental regulation. Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits and certificates may result in substantial costs to NJR. NJR and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state and local regulatory authorities. They are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies. These agencies regulate various aspects of their business, including customer rates, services and natural gas pipeline operations. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has regulatory authority over some of NJR's operations, including sales of natural gas in the wholesale market and the purchase and sale of interstate pipeline and storage capacity. Any Congressional legislation or agency regulation that would alter these or other similar statutory and regulatory structures in a way to significantly raise costs that could not be recovered in rates from customers, that would reduce the availability of supply or capacity, or that would reduce NJR's competitiveness would negatively impact its earnings. NJR and its subsidiaries cannot predict the impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to them. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence their operating environment and may result in substantial costs to them. Risks related to the regulation of NJNG could affect the rates it is able to charge, its costs and its profitability. NJNG is subject to regulation by federal, state and loca l authorities. These authorities regulate many aspects of NJNG's distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, rates that NJNG can charge customers, rates of return, the authorized cost of capital, recovery of pipeline replacement and environmental remediation costs and relationships with its affiliates. NJNG's ability to obtain rate increases, including base rate increases, extend its incentive programs and maintain its currently authorized rates of return may be impacted by events, including regulatory or legislative actions. There can be no assurance that NJNG will be able to obtain rate increases, continue its incentive programs or continue the opportunity to earn its currently authorized rates of return. Significant regulatory assets recorded by NJNG could be disallowed for recovery from customers in the future. NJNG records regulatory assets on its financial statements to reflect the ratemaking and regulatory decision-making authority of the BPU as allowed by current GAAP. The creation of a regulatory asset allows for the deferral of costs which, absent a mechanism to recover such costs from customers in rates approved by the BPU, would be charged to expense on its income statement in the current period. Primary regulatory assets that are subject to BPU approval include the recovery of BGSS and Universal Service Fund (USF) costs, remediation costs associated with its MGP sites, the CIP, WNC, the New Jersey Clean Energy program, economic stimulus plans and pension and other postemployment plans. If there were to be a change in regulatory position Page 16New Jersey Resources CorporationPart I ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) surrounding the collection of these deferred costs there could be a material impact on NJNG's financial position, operations and cash flows. NJR's charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a transaction that stockholders would view as favorable. The certificate of incorporation and bylaws of NJR, as well as New Jersey law, contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an unsolicited change in control of NJR, which may negatively affect the market price of the common stock or the ability of stockholders to participate in a transaction in which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in management. In addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as the board of directors may determine. The common stockholders will be subject to, and may be negatively affected by, the rights of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, NJR is subject to the New Jersey Shareholders' Protection Act, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of NJR. NJR and its subsidiaries may be unable to obtain governmental approvals, property rights and/or financing for the construction, development and operation of its non-regulated energy investments. Construction, development and operation of energy investments, such as natural gas storage facilities. pipeline transportation systems and solar energy projects, are subject to federal and state regulatory oversight and require certain property rights and approvals, including permits and licenses for such facilities and systems. NJR, its subsidiaries, or its joint venture partnerships may be unable to obtain, in a cost-efficient or timely manner, all such needed property rights, permits and licenses in order to successfully construct and develop its non-regulated energy facilities and systems. Successful financing of NJR's energy investments will require participation by willing financial institutions and lenders, as well as acquisition of capital at favorable interest rates. If NJR and its subsidiaries do not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and financing, their equity investments could become impaired, and such impairment could have a materially adverse effect on NJR's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. NJR is involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies that could adversely af fect the company's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. NJR is involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies with respect to general claims, rates, taxes, environmental issues, gas cost prudence reviews and other matters. Adverse decisions regarding these matters, to the extent they require NJR to make payments in excess of amounts provided for in its financial statements, could adversely affect NJR's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Environmental Risks NJR costs of compliance with present and future environmental laws are significant and could adversely affect its cash flows and profitability. NJR's operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require NJR to expend significant financial resources to, among other things, conduct site remediation and perform environmental monitoring. If NJR fails to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, even if it is unable to do so due to factors beyond its control, it may be subject to civil liabilities or criminal penalties and may be required to incur significant expenditures to come into compliance. Additionally, any alleged violations of environmental laws and regulations may require NJR to expend significant resources in its defense against alleged violations. Furthermore, the United States Congress has for some time been considering various forms of climate change legislation. There is a possibilit y that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation could impact NJR's costs and put upward pressure on wholesale natural gas prices. Higher cost levels could impact the competitive position of natural gas and negatively affect our growth opportunities, cash flows and earnings. Page 17New Jersey Resources CorporationPart IITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 