Item 1A. Risk Factors The business and operations of the Company, particularly through its 50% ownership in Cyanco, are subject to risks. In addition to considering the other information in this report, you should consider carefully the following factors in deciding whether to invest in the Company's securities. If any of these risks occur, or if other risks not currently anticipated or fully appreciated occur, the Company's business and prospects could be materially adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on the trading price for our shares. The number of Cyanco customers is relatively small and a loss of one or more customers could adversely affect future Cyanco sales, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. All of the Cyanco's sales occur within the western United States. Since most of Cyanco's cyanide customers are large mining companies, the number of companies it services is relatively small compared to those of a wholesale distribution or retail business. A loss of one or more customers could adversely affect future sales, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. Price increases in energy and other raw materials could have a significant impact on Cyanco's ability to sustain and grow earnings. Cyanco's manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of natural gas, electricity and other raw materials, such as ammonia and caustic soda. The prices of energy and raw materials are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond the control of Cyanco. The Company expects energy costs to remain high and volatile in the near future, which may result in further increases in Cyanco costs. Significant variations in the cost of energy and raw materials affect Cyanco's 5 operating results. When possible, Cyanco purchases raw materials through negotiated long-term contracts to minimize the impact of price fluctuations. Success in offsetting higher raw material costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the market served. Cyanco has the ability under certain of its contracts, to pass on increases in the cost of raw materials to its customers. If Cyanco is not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs, it could have a significant impact on Cyanco's financial results and on the Company's equity in earnings of Cyanco. Cyanco is subject to risks caused by the production of hazardous materials, including legal liability created by its operations. Cyanco's operations are subject to the hazards and risks normally incident to production of a hazardous material, any of which could result in damage to life, property, or the environment. Cyanco may be subject to significant legal liability for any damage caused by its operations, which could be substantial. Changes to the extensive regulatory and environmental rules and regulations to which Cyanco is subject could have a material adverse effect on Cyanco's future operations. In addition to normal laws and regulations applicable to companies, Cyanco's operations are subject to various additional laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, production of chemicals, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, and other similar matters. New laws and regulations, amendments to existing laws and regulations, or more stringent implementation of existing laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on Cyanco, increase costs, and cause a reduction in levels of production. Compliance with these laws and regulations requires significant expenditures and increases the operating costs of Cyanco. Changes in regulations and laws could adversely affect Cyanco's operations or substantially increase the costs associated with those operations. The Company may not be able to control the decisions and strategy of joint ventures to which it is a party. Through its wholly owned subsidiary, Winnemucca Chemicals, Inc., the Company holds a 50% interest in Cyanco. Because the Company shares ownership in Cyanco with another chemical company, it is subject to the risks normally associated with the conduct of joint ventures. The existence or occurrence of one or more of the following circumstances and events could have a material adverse impact on the Company's profitability or the viability of its interests held through the joint venture, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition: •inability to exert influence over certain strategic decisions made in respect of joint venture operations; •inability of partners to meet their obligations to the joint venture or third parties; and •litigation between partners regarding joint venture matters. Cyanco's production of liquid sodium cyanide is subject to risks related to environmental liability. The production of liquid sodium cyanide is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal 6 sanctions, as well as assessment of liabilities. The payment of related liabilities would reduce funds otherwise available and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Should Cyanco be unable to fund fully the cost of remedying an environmental problem, Cyanco might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy, which could have a material adverse effect on the operations and business of the Company. The business of Cyanco would be adversely affected by the loss of services or infrastructure near its production site. Production of liquid sodium cyanide depends, to one degree or another, on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, railroad lines, bridges, power sources, and water supply are important determinants which affect capital and operating costs. A lack of such infrastructure or unusual or infrequent weather phenomena, sabotage, terrorism, government, or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could adversely affect Cyanco's operations, financial condition, and results of operations. Shortage of supplies could adversely affect Cyanco's ability to operate. Cyanco is dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out its chemical production. Cyanco may not be able to control its receipt of necessary supplies or equipment. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to carry out its operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. Cyanco requires the issuance and renewal of licenses and permits in order to conduct its operations, and failure to receive these licenses may result in delays in development or cessation of certain operations. The operations of Cyanco require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities, and the process for obtaining licenses and permits from governmental authorities often takes an extended period of time and is subject to numerous delays and uncertainties. Such licenses and permits are subject to change in various circumstances. Cyanco may be unable to timely obtain or maintain in the future all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to continue operations that economically justify the cost. A substantial or extended decline in gold prices would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The profitability of Cyanco's operations and ultimately the earnings of the Company are significantly affected by changes in the market price of gold. Demand for liquid sodium cyanide is affected by the level of gold exploration and development, which is in turn affected by the price of gold. Gold prices fluctuate on a daily basis and are affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company. The supply and demand for gold, the level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, investment decisions by large holders of gold, including governmental entities, and changes in exchange rates can all cause significant fluctuations in gold prices. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by changes in international investment patterns and monetary systems and political developments. The price of gold has fluctuated widely and future serious price declines could cause continued commercial production to be impractical. Depending on the price of gold, cash flow from mining operations may not be sufficient to cover costs of production and capital expenditures, which may cause gold mining companies to suspend or terminate operations. In such event, demand for Cyanco's product would decrease. 7 Local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Growing public and political attention has been placed on protecting critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concern regarding the security of chemical production and distribution. In addition, local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs and interruptions in normal business operations at Cyanco. Cyanco's insurance may not cover the risks to which its business is exposed. Cyanco's business is subject to a number of risks and hazards generally, including adverse environmental conditions, industrial accidents, changes in the regulatory environment and natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods and earthquakes. Such occurrences could result in damage to production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage to Cyanco's properties or the properties of others, delays in production, monetary losses and legal liability. Available insurance does not cover all the potential risks associated with a chemical company's operations. Cyanco may also be unable to maintain insurance to cover insurable risks at economically feasible premiums, and insurance coverage may not be available in the future or may not be adequate to cover any resulting loss. As a result, Cyanco might become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards for which it is uninsured or for which it elects not to insure because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause Cyanco to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The business of Cyanco is dependent on good labor and employment relations. Production at Cyanco's facilities is dependent upon the efforts of employees of Cyanco. Relationships between Cyanco and its employees may be impacted by changes in labor relations which may be introduced by, among others, employee groups, unions, and the relevant governmental authorities in whose jurisdictions Cyanco carries on business. Adverse changes in such legislation or in the relationship between Cyanco and its employees may have a material adverse effect on Cyanco's business, and the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. Future changes to tax accruals or the final resolution of tax audits may adversely affect the results of operations in applicable periods. Certain of the Company's United States and Canadian income tax returns are currently under audit. The ultimate outcome of these audits and the impact of the final audit results on the consolidated financial statements of the Company cannot be determined at this time. The Company has accrued estimated amounts and has amounts on deposit for the potential outcome of these audits, but there can be no assurance that such costs will not ultimately exceed the current estimate. In addition, the accrual for the potential tax liability in the Canadian audit is subject to change based on the foreign currency exchange rates between the Canadian and U.S. dollar. The recent increase in the strength of the Canadian dollar has resulted in an increase in the accrued amount, which is expressed in U.S. dollars. The Company reviews the accrued amounts at each balance sheet date. Any increase in the accrual or the final resolution of the amount due in excess of the accrual would reduce income in the period such determination is made. Similarly, any decrease in the accrual or final determination that the amount due is less than the accrual would increase income in the period such determination is made. Consequently, the Company's results of operations for any particular period may be affected by these adjustments, unrelated to the results of the current business operations of the Company for that period, which may affect the price for the Company's common shares in the trading market. 8 Changes in the market price of Company common shares may be unrelated to its results of operations and could have an adverse impact on the Company. The Company's common shares are listed on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation system ("Nasdaq"). The price of the Company's common shares is likely to be significantly affected by short-term changes in the market price of gold or in its financial condition or results of operations as reflected in its quarterly earnings reports. A drop in trading volume and general market interest in the securities of the Company may adversely affect an investor's ability to liquidate an investment and consequently an investor's interest in acquiring a significant stake in the Company. A failure of the Company to meet the reporting and other obligations under U.S. securities laws or imposed by Nasdaq could result in a delisting of Company common shares. A substantial decline in the price of Company common shares that persists for a significant period of time could cause Company common shares to be delisted from the Nasdaq, further reducing market liquidity. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of the common shares at any given point in time may not accurately reflect the Company's long-term value. Securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. The Company may in the future be the target of similar litigation, which could result in substantial costs and damages and divert management's attention and resources. The Company has paid dividends in the past but future dividends are not guaranteed. The Company has paid dividends in recent history and anticipates that it will continue to do so in the future. However, continued payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of the Company's board of directors, after taking into account many factors, including the Company's operating results, financial condition, and current and anticipated cash needs. There is no guarantee that the Company will continue to pay dividends in the future. The loss of key executives could adversely affect the Company. The Company has a small executive management team. In the event that the services of an executive were no longer available, the Company and its business could be adversely affected. The Company carries key-man life insurance with respect to its chief executive officer. The Company may be subject to litigation in the future. Legal proceedings that could be brought against the Company or Cyanco in the future, for example, litigation based on its business activities, environmental laws, volatility in its stock price, or failure of its disclosure obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments This item is not applicable to the Company as it is not an accelerated filer. 