ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) issue preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. Our common stockholders will be subject to, and may be negatively affected by, the rights of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, we are subject to the New Jersey Shareholders' Protection Act, which could delay or prevent a change of control of NJR.We are involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies that could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.We are involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies with respect to general claims, rates, taxes, environmental issues, gas cost prudence reviews and other matters. Adverse decisions regarding these matters, to the extent they require us to make payments in excess of amounts provided for in our financial statements, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Our costs of compliance with present and future environmental laws are significant and could adversely affect our cash flows and profitability.Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to expend significant financial resources to, among other things, conduct site remediation and perform environmental monitoring. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, even if we are unable to do so due to factors beyond our control, we may be subject to civil liabilities or criminal penalties and may be required to incur significant expenditures to come into compliance. Additionally, any alleged violations of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources in our defense against alleged violations.Furthermore, the U.S. Congress has for some time been considering various forms of climate change legislation. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation could impact our costs and put upward pressure on wholesale natural gas prices. Higher cost levels could impact the competitive position of natural gas and negatively affect our growth opportunities, cash flows and earnings.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None