ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) NJR and its subsidiaries may be unable to obtain governmental approvals, property rights and/or financing for the construction, development and operation of its non-regulated energy investments.Construction, development and operation of energy investments, such as natural gas storage facilities, pipeline transportation systems, solar energy projects and on-shore wind projects, are subject to federal and state regulatory oversight and require certain property rights and approvals, including permits and licenses for such facilities and systems. NJR, its subsidiaries, or its joint venture partnerships may be unable to obtain, in a cost-efficient or timely manner, all such needed property rights, permits and licenses in order to successfully construct and develop its non-regulated energy facilities and systems. Successful financing of NJR's energy investments requires participation by willing financial institutions and lenders, as well as acquisition of capital at favorable interest rates. If NJR and its subsidiaries do not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and financing, their equity investments could be impaired, and such impairment could have a materially adverse effect on NJR's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.NJR is involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies that could adversely affect the company's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.NJR is involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies with respect to general claims, rates, taxes, environmental issues, gas cost prudence reviews and other matters. Adverse decisions regarding these matters, to the extent they require NJR to make payments in excess of amounts provided for in its financial statements, could adversely affect NJR's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.The SEC is currently considering whether publicly registered companies in the United States should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) instead of the current GAAP in the United States. IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), which are currently in effect for most other countries in the world. Unlike U.S. GAAP, IFRS does not currently provide an industry accounting standard for rate-regulated activities. As such, if IFRS were adopted in its current state, we could be precluded from applying certain regulatory accounting principles, including the recognition of certain regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities. The potential issues associated with rate-regulated accounting, along with other potential changes associated with the adoption of IFRS, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, should adoption of IFRS be required. Also, the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board is considering various changes to U.S. GAAP, some of which may be significant, as part of a joint effort with the IASB to converge accounting standards over the next several years. If approved, adoption of these changes could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.NJR costs of compliance with present and future environmental laws are significant and could adversely affect its cash flows and profitability.NJR's operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require NJR to expend significant financial resources to, among other things, conduct site remediation and perform environmental monitoring. If NJR fails to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, even if it is unable to do so due to factors beyond its control, it may be subject to civil liabilities or criminal penalties and may be required to incur significant expenditures to come into compliance. Additionally, any alleged violations of environmental laws and regulations may require NJR to expend significant resources in its defense against alleged violations.Furthermore, the United States Congress has for some time been considering various forms of climate change legislation. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation could impact NJR's costs and put upward pressure on wholesale natural gas prices. Higher cost levels could impact the competitive position of natural gas and negatively affect our growth opportunities, cash flows and earnings.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NonePage 18New Jersey Resources CorporationPart I