ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) We are involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies that could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.We are involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies with respect to general claims, rates, taxes, environmental issues, gas cost prudence reviews and other matters. Adverse decisions regarding these matters, to the extent they require us to make payments in excess of amounts provided for in our financial statements, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.The SEC is currently considering whether publicly registered companies in the U.S. should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS instead of the current GAAP in the United States. IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board, which are currently in effect for most other countries in the world. Unlike U.S. GAAP, IFRS does not currently provide an industry accounting standard for rate-regulated activities. As such, if IFRS were adopted in its current state, we could be precluded from applying certain regulatory accounting principles, including the recognition of certain regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities. The potential issues associated with rate-regulated accounting, along with other potential changes associated with the adoption of IFRS, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, should adoption of IFRS be required. Also, the U.S. FASB is considering various changes to U.S. GAAP, some of which may be significant, as part of a joint effort with the International Accounting Standards Board to converge accounting standards over the next several years. If approved, adoption of these changes could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.Our costs of compliance with present and future environmental laws are significant and could adversely affect our cash flows and profitability.Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to expend significant financial resources to, among other things, conduct site remediation and perform environmental monitoring. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, even if we are unable to do so due to factors beyond our control, we may be subject to civil liabilities or criminal penalties and may be required to incur significant expenditures to come into compliance. Additionally, any alleged violations of environmental laws and regulations may require us to expend significant resources in our defense against alleged violations.Furthermore, the U.S. Congress has for some time been considering various forms of climate change legislation. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation could impact our costs and put upward pressure on wholesale natural gas prices. Higher cost levels could impact the competitive position of natural gas and negatively affect our growth opportunities, cash flows and earnings.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None