Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial and operating results, and an investment in First Regional Bancorp common stock, are subject to a number of factors, many of which are outside the Company's control. These factors include the following: Economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's liquidity. The banking industry, including First Regional, has long focused on the importance of liquidity. The current economic environment has had an uneven impact on First Regional's liquidity. On the one hand, demands upon First Regional's liquidity sources have declined in a number of respects. For one, loan demand in general has slowed. For another, First Regional remains highly selective in its loan production, particularly in light of deteriorating conditions in some real estate markets. On the other hand, First Regional has found that loan payoffs have slowed, as a result of declining real estate sales and a tightened credit market for the long-term financing that has historically been accessed by our borrowers to refinance properties. In addition, First Regional has undisbursed commitments for existing loans, which results in ongoing demand for funding even with highly constrained new loan production. In order to effectively manage its liquidity, First Regional has recently increased deposits from previously underutilized sources, such as institutional time deposits. The Company has done this as part of a plan to reduce First Regional's outstanding Federal Home Loan Bank borrowing levels so as to hold this source available as a reserve fund of liquidity. As previously noted, First Regional Bank continues to maintain "well capitalized" ratios, the highest standards established by banking regulators. However, in February 2009, First Regional Bank entered into a formal agreement with the FDIC and California Department of Financial Institutions, pursuant to which the Bank has agreed to increase its capital ratios. Under regulatory "prompt corrective action" rules, the existence of a capital component in a formal agreement results in a "well capitalized" institution being treated as "adequately capitalized" for purposes of rules governing brokered deposits. As a result, First Regional must seek and obtain a waiver from the FDIC prior to issuing or renewing any brokered deposits. As a result, First Regional Bank expects that most brokered deposits previously issued will run off as they mature over the next two years. First Regional has, however, applied for a waiver for certain types of deposits deemed "brokered deposits" by regulators. First Regional also maintains other supplemental sources of liquidity, including marketable assets, credit lines with correspondent banks, and access to the Federal Reserve's discount window. Nevertheless, there is a risk that if loan repayments continue to slow, and/or First Regional's traditional deposit levels are reduced, the Company may need to utilize these supplemental liquidity sources, which could have an adverse impact on First Regional's financial condition and/or results of operations. There is a limited and volatile trading market for the Company common stock. The Company's common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "FRGB." However, there is a limited trading market for the Company's common stock, with an average trading volume of approximately 73,000 shares per trading day. In addition, the Company's stock has suffered from a very significant decline over the past two years. While the Company's stock had previously traded at a significant multiple of the Company's 27 Table of Contents book value, the stock currently trades at less than 10% of book value. This may be due to several factors, including the recent concerns about banks and financial institutions generally, the status of the U.S. and world economies, the significant drop in real estate valuations, extreme credit tightening throughout the financial system, as well as the Company's recent financial results, including its loss of approximately $23 million for 2008. The Company does not believe that recent stock prices are meaningfully reflective of the company's underlying value. Accordingly, an investment in First Regional stock is subject to these risks, and there can be no assurance that a holder of the Company's common stock, particularly of large blocks, will have the ability to dispose of such shares in a liquid or stable market or that a more active trading market for the Company's common stock will develop or will be sustained. While the Company's book value exceeded $12 per share as of December 31, 2008, the Company's common stock has recently been trading below $1. The Company's common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. One of Nasdaq's continued listing requirements is that a listed company have a minimum bid price of $1. Due to current extraordinary market conditions, in October 2008, Nasdaq suspended the rules requiring a minimum $1 closing bid price, with such rules initially scheduled to be reinstated January 2009. In January 2009, Nasdaq extended its suspension of such rules until April 20, 2009. It is expected that, in light of continued extraordinary market conditions, Nasdaq will continue to be flexible concerning such rules. However, there can be no assurance that Nasdaq will further extend the suspension of such rules, or that the closing bid price of the Company's common stock will rise above $1. Should Nasdaq fail to further extend the suspension of such rule, and the closing bid price of the Company's common stock fails to rise above $1, then Nasdaq could give the Company notice of noncompliance with such rule and require the Company to regain compliance within a timeframe determined by Nasdaq. The Company would then have the opportunity to devise a plan to regain compliance within such timeframe. Should the Company thereafter fail to timely regain compliance with such rule, the Company's common stock would be at risk of being delisted by Nasdaq, after which the stock would trade in over the counter (OTC) markets. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we will sustain losses. A significant source of risk for us arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and guaranties. While First Regional Bank has historically enjoyed very low levels of nonperforming assets, during 2008, these levels rose in response to declining economic conditions, declining real estate values, tightening credit markets and other factors. First Regional Bank has undertaken to enhance its underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, in an effort to better manage and reduce our exposure to such risks. Nevertheless, these policies and procedures may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are highly dependent on real estate and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2008, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 88% of our loan portfolio. Declines in the value of real estate have adversely affected the quality of certain of First Regional's loans, including collateral value and, in a number of cases, the borrower's financial condition. This has, in turn, required First Regional to make substantial loan loss provisions during 2008, which has resulted in First Regional's loss of approximately $23 million for 2008. Further declines in real estate values will likely further adversely affect the value of the real estate securing both our loans and the real estate we own, and will likely require additional loan loss provisions. Such provisions would likely adversely impact our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents In addition, acts of nature, including earthquakes, fires, landslides and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate, may also negatively impact our financial condition. This is particularly significant in light of the fact that most of the real estate that makes up the collateral of our real estate secured loans is located in Southern California, where the risk of such acts of nature is relatively high. Failure to comply with the provisions of First Regional Bank's formal agreement with its regulators could adversely affect the Bank. During February 2009, the bank signed an order to cease and desist with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") and the California Department of Financial Institutions (the "DFI") to further strengthen the Bank's operations. The agreement between First Regional Bank and its regulators is expected to help guide the Bank in addressing the impacts of today's challenging economic environment. The agreement formalizes many of the initiatives which the Bank has already adopted, and provides useful milestones for measuring the Bank's progress as it moves forward. Under the agreement, First Regional Bank will: •Retain qualified management, and continue the active involvement of its board of directors in managing the Bank's activities •Increase its capital ratios based on a pre-determined schedule, and develop a comprehensive capital plan to assure compliance with that schedule •Eliminate from its books any assets classified loss and a portion of any assets classified doubtful that have not already been charged-off or collected, and develop a comprehensive plan to reduce classified assets based on a pre-determined schedule •Create and implement a plan to increase the diversification of the Bank's lending activities •Create and implement a comprehensive profit plan to improve the Bank's earnings performance •Update or revise the Bank's written policies in the areas of credit administration and liquidity management As previously noted, First Regional Bank continues to maintain "well capitalized" ratios, the highest standards established by banking regulators. However, in connection with the Bank's plan to increase its capital ratios, effective February 23, 2009, the Bank specifically agreed to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 9.5% of the Bank's total assets and to maintain such ratio at 10% as of September 30, 2009. Also as a part of such plan, First Regional Bank and its parent, First Regional Bancorp, have also authorized the contribution by First Regional Bancorp, from its cash reserves, of $12 million into the Bank as additional Bank capital, which contribution was made during February 2009. First Regional intends to achieve full compliance with the agreement in a timely manner. As the agreement includes many initiatives previously adopted by the Bank, the implementation of those measures has already begun. Even after the terms of the agreement have been satisfied, First Regional plans to continue its efforts to further enhance the Bank's capital strength, asset quality, and operating performance. In an effort to enhance its capital ratios, First Regional Bank intends to shrink the size of the Bank by several hundreds of million dollars. However, First Regional Bank has found that the pace of loan payoffs has slowed significantly, as a result of slower sales of completed construction projects and the tightening of credit markets historically accessed by our borrowers to refinance stabilized real estate projects. First Regional also intends to sell certain assets as a part of its effort to shrink the Bank. However, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful at prices acceptable to the Bank. Should the Bank fail to comply with the terms of its formal agreement with its regulators, 29 Table of Contents this may result in further enforcement action by the Bank's regulators, which may adversely affect the results or financial condition of the Bank. The Bank is subject to certain risks associated with borrower and industry concentrations. Certain customers of the Bank control various separate legal entities representing, in the aggregate, significant borrowing concentrations; including as much as $126 million, or 56% of the Bank's capital, as of December 31, 2008. While each individual loan is separately and independently underwritten, and while the majority of such loans are secured by commercial real property, these borrowing concentrations nevertheless present certain risks. In that regard, bank regulatory agencies have issued a number of public statements about risks related to borrower and industry concentrations, in particular with respect to loans secured by commercial real estate. Regulators have proposed guidance to banks addressing such risks. The costs of implementing and managing such policies, procedures and controls is currently unknown, but could adversely affect our financial and operating results. In certain cases, multiple loans across a borrower relationship has become impaired after the controlling principal has suffered an adverse change in such borrower's financial condition. In some of these cases, the Bank has suffered defaults across multiple loans in a borrower concentration. As a part of the Bank's action plan to comply with the terms of the Bank's February 2009 formal agreement with its regulators, the Bank has devised a plan to reduce borrower concentrations over time. In anticipation of this requirement, First Regional Bank's Board adopted a policy to reduce borrower concentrations to no more than 25% of capital by the end of 2009. However, there can be no assurance that the Bank will succeed in reducing all borrower concentrations in accordance with the Bank's action plan by the target dates for such action. Failure to do so could adversely affect the results of operations or financial condition of First Regional Bank. Economic conditions in the Southern California area could adversely affect our operations. Our banking operations are concentrated primarily in Los Angeles, Orange and Ventura Counties. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in our market area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our commercial banking products and services, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on the continued services of key members of management. The Company's continued success depends on the retention, recruitment and continued contributions of key members of management. Key member's of the Company's and the Bank's management include H. Anthony Gartshore, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas E. McCullough, our Corporate Secretary and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Bank, and other officers with key positions and/or who have relationships with customers of the Bank. The loss of such key personnel could have an adverse affect on the Company's growth and profitability, and many of these persons would be difficult or impossible to replace. The competition for qualified personnel is intense. The loss of services of members of the Company's key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition from financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services that could hurt our business. The banking business in California, generally, and in the Los Angeles, Orange and Ventura County areas where the Bank's operations are centered, specifically, is highly competitive with respect to both loans and deposits and is dominated by major banks, both domestic and foreign, which have many offices operating over wide geographic areas. The Bank competes for deposits and loans principally 30 Table of Contents with these major banks, but also with small independent banks located in its service areas. Among the advantages which the major banks have over the Bank are their ability to finance extensive advertising campaigns and to allocate their investment assets to regions of highest yield and demand. Many of the major commercial banks operating in the Bank's service area offer certain services that are not offered directly by the Bank and, by virtue of their greater total capitalization, such banks have substantially higher lending limits than the Bank. In addition, the Bank faces direct competition from newly chartered banks, which are formed from time to time in the Bank's service area. Moreover, banks generally, and the Bank in particular, face increasing competition for loans and deposits from non-bank financial intermediaries such as savings and loan associations, thrift and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, insurance companies, and other lending institutions. Money market funds offer rates competitive with, or higher than those of, banks, and an increasingly sophisticated financial services industry continually develops new products for businesses and consumers that compete with banks for investment dollars. In addition, other entities (both public and private) seeking to raise capital through the issuance and sale of debt or equity securities compete with banks in the acquisition of deposits. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services businesses may reduce our market share or cause the prices we charge for our services to fall. Our results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature or level of competition. We are subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely impact our operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers and the deposit insurance funds, rather than our shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. In addition, these regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. In recent years, banking regulators have indicated that, unless a bank is in full compliance with applicable regulations deemed to be of particular importance, including Bank Secrecy Act ("BSA"), Anti-Money Laundering and the Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA"), requests for approvals for new types of activities, including branching, may be subject to increased scrutiny, temporarily delayed or outright denied. At the conclusion of an examination by the FDIC and DFI of the Bank in 2007, the FDIC expressed concern regarding a previously unidentified BSA concern relating to the Bank's program of providing custodial services to individual retirement accounts (IRAs) administered by non-bank third parties. The FDIC requested that the Bank enter into a cease and desist order, principally addressing the Bank's BSA duties in connection with such third party administered retirement accounts. While the Bank questioned the need for such a cease and desist order, the Bank concluded that it was advisable for the Bank to enter into, rather than undertake a formal challenge to, the requested cease and desist order. While the bank believes it fully complied with this Cease and Desist Order, no assurance can be given that the FDIC will not require further action if the Bank fails to comply with the terms of the cease and desist order or otherwise fails to correct the deficiencies identified. We are subject to certain risks associated with public company regulation. New laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations or repeal of existing laws and regulations may adversely impact our business. We have incurred substantial costs to interpret and ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and its implementing regulations. The Company cannot be certain of the effect, if any, of the foregoing legislation on the business of the Company. Future changes in the laws, regulations, or policies that impact the Company cannot necessarily be predicted and may have a material effect on the business 31 Table of Contents and earnings of the Company. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects economic conditions for the Company. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Our earnings are impacted by changing interest rates, which are unpredictable and beyond our control. Changes in interest rates impact the demand for new loans, the credit profile of our borrowers, the rates received on loans and securities and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The difference between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as interest rate spread. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, we would expect our interest rate spread to increase if interest rates rise and, conversely, to decline if interest rates fall. Recent trends in interest rates may not continue and/or may reverse. Also, competitive pressures on both the pricing of loans and on the cost of deposits can have the effect of compressing our net interest margin, making it difficult for us to sustain or enhance our net income in the future. We believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, particularly in light of currently prevailing historically low interest rates. Nevertheless, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Retirement Plan Administration Business The Bank's Trust Administration Services Division provides administrative, record-keeping and other services for self-directed retirement plans and accounts for which the Bank serves as sponsor and custodian. Recently, both the banking and securities regulatory authorities have increased their scrutiny of the retirement plan industry. This enhanced scrutiny arises from a number of governmental concerns, including investment scams directed at members of the United States' increasing population of seniors and the potential abuse of retirement accounts to support terrorism financing, money laundering and tax-avoidance schemes. While the Bank's involvement in the retirement plan industry is limited to providing custodial and other ministerial services for modest fees, the Bank is sensitive to this enhanced industry-wide scrutiny. For this reason, the Bank is currently strengthening its risk management program for its retirement plan business. As a result of increased risk management and screening procedures, and the corresponding paperwork burden imposed on customers, expenses related to this business will rise and, at the same time, the Bank may lose certain existing or prospective customers. This may, in turn, lead to a decline in the profitability of the Trust Administration Services Division. While the Company does not expect these developments to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations, the Bank may be required to take further action if the risk management policies and procedures currently being implemented are later deemed insufficient to address the on-going regulatory concerns. Our performance is dependent on our maintaining a high quality of service for our customers, and will be impaired by a decline in our quality of service. Our continued successful performance is dependent on our maintaining a high quality of service for our customers. As we continue to grow, it may become increasingly difficult to maintain high service quality for our customers. This could cause a decline in our performance and growth with respect to net income, deposits, assets and other benchmarks. Our internal operations are subject to a number of risks. We are subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and 32 Table of Contents maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls and uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental and other liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental or other liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, in the event we become the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The interests of our controlling shareholders may differ from yours. The Company's directors, executive officers and their related interests have voting control or beneficial ownership of approximately 39% of its outstanding shares (including shares issuable to them upon exercise of vested stock options). In particular, Jack A. Sweeney, the Company's Founder and Chairman Emeritus, has voting control or beneficial ownership of approximately 29% of the Company's outstanding common stock (including shares issuable to him upon exercise of vested stock options). The interests of these controlling shareholders may differ from yours. Because of this beneficial ownership and voting power, our controlling shareholders may have the power to substantially control any matter presented to shareholders for a vote, including with respect to the election of directors or other material transactions, such as a future issuance of securities, a potential acquisition of, or take-over proposal made by, another company. As a result, these controlling shareholders may cause the defeat of a proposal you support, or cause the approval of a proposal you oppose. Provisions in the Company's bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, which could decrease the value of its common stock. The Company has in place various types of protections which would make it difficult for a company or investor to buy the Company without the approval of the Company's board of directors. These provisions include the elimination of cumulative voting and the classification of the Board of Directors into two or three classes, depending on the number of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 