Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial and operating results, and an investment in First Regional Bancorp common stock, are subject to a number of factors, many of which are not within the Company’s control. These factors include the following: We are highly dependent on real estate and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2006, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 88% of our loan portfolio. While we are not a subprime lender, and have little direct exposure in the single family residential real estate market, a decline in the value of commercial real estate securing our loans could adversely impact our financial condition. Also, while we presently own no real estate, a decline in the value of real estate that may be owned by us in the future could adversely impact our financial condition. In addition, acts of nature, including earthquakes, fires, landslides and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. This is particularly significant in light of the fact that most of the real estate that makes up the collateral of our real estate secured loans is located in Southern California, where the risk of such acts of nature is high. Economic conditions in the Southern California area could adversely affect our operations. Our banking operations are concentrated primarily in Los Angeles, Orange and Ventura Counties. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results of operations depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in our market area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our commercial banking products and services, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not or will not sustain recent growth trends. The Company has grown substantially in recent years, including with respect to net income, assets, net loans, deposits and other benchmarks. For example, the Company’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 rose by 45% from the year before, and the Company’s assets, net loans and deposits as of December 31, 2006 rose by 15%, 7% and 15%, respectively, from the prior year. Management believes that it is unlikely that the Company will maintain such growth patterns, particularly with respect to net income growth for 2007. We are dependent on the continued services of key members of management. The Company’s continued success depends on the retention, recruitment and continued contributions of key members of management. Key member’s of the Company’s and the Bank’s management include Jack A. Sweeney, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, H. Anthony Gartshore, our President, Thomas E. McCullough, our Corporate Secretary and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Bank, and other officers with key positions and/or who have relationships with customers of the Bank. The loss of such key personnel could have an adverse affect on the Company’s growth and profitability, and many of these persons would be difficult or impossible to replace. The competition for 21 qualified personnel is intense. The loss of services of members of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition from financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services that could hurt our business. The banking business in California, generally, and in the Los Angeles, Orange and Ventura County areas where the Bank’s operations are centered, specifically, is highly competitive with respect to both loans and deposits and is dominated by major banks, both domestic and foreign, which have many offices operating over wide geographic areas. The Bank competes for deposits and loans principally with these major banks, but also with small independent banks located in its service areas. Among the advantages which the major banks have over the Bank are their ability to finance extensive advertising campaigns and to allocate their investment assets to regions of highest yield and demand. Many of the major commercial banks operating in the Bank’s service area offer certain services that are not offered directly by the Bank and, by virtue of their greater total capitalization, such banks have substantially higher lending limits than the Bank. In addition, the Bank faces direct competition from newly chartered banks which are formed from time to time in the Bank’s service area. Moreover, banks generally, and the Bank in particular, face increasing competition for loans and deposits from non-bank financial intermediaries such as savings and loan associations, thrift and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, insurance companies, and other lending institutions. Money market funds offer rates competitive with, or higher than those of, banks, and an increasingly sophisticated financial services industry continually develops new products for businesses and consumers that compete with banks for investment dollars. In addition, other entities (both public and private) seeking to raise capital through the issuance and sale of debt or equity securities compete with banks in the acquisition of deposits. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services businesses may reduce our market share or cause the prices we charge for our services to fall. Our results may differ in future periods depending upon the nature or level of competition. The Bank is subject to certain risks associated with borrower and industry concentrations. Certain customers of the Bank control various separate legal entities representing, in the aggregate, significant borrowing concentrations; including as much as $202 million in loans, which equaled 79% of the Bank’s capital as of December 31, 2006. While each individual loan is separately and independently underwritten, and while the majority of such loans are secured by commercial real property, these borrowing concentrations nevertheless present certain risks. In that regard, bank regulatory agencies have issued a number of public statements about risks related to borrower and industry concentrations, in particular with respect to loans secured by commercial real estate. Regulators have issued guidance to banks addressing such risks. The impact of implementing and managing such policies, procedures and controls is currently unknown, but could adversely affect our future loan volume and operating results. If, because of competitive or other reasons, one or more of the Bank’s significant borrowers discontinued his or her relationship with the Bank, or such a relationship was otherwise diminished, this could adversely affect the Company’s financial and operating results. Also, if such a customer experiences financial or other difficulties in the future, the performance of some or all of the loans associated with the borrowing relationship could be impaired. The default of multiple loans in a relationship at substantially the same time could adversely affect our financial and operating results, even if such loans are well secured. 22 We are subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely impact our operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers and the deposit insurance funds, rather than our shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. In addition, these regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. In recent years, banking regulators have indicated that, unless a bank is in full compliance with applicable regulations deemed to be of particular importance, including Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”), Anti-Money Laundering and the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), that requests for approvals for new types of activities, including branching, may be subject to increased scrutiny, temporary delay or outright denial. BSA requires banks to monitor customer activity and report certain transactions to government authorities. In 2005, after an examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and the California Department of Financial Institutions (“DFI”), the Bank identified certain deficiencies and other concerns, principally with respect to BSA, and took corrective action directed toward achieving full compliance with BSA and addressing the other concerns so identified. Subsequently the Bank entered into an informal agreement with the FDIC and DFI with respect to such corrective action. While the Bank believes that the corrective action taken to date has substantially addressed the regulatory concerns embodied in the informal agreement, no assurance can be given that the FDIC and DFI will not require further action if the Bank fails to maintain full compliance with the terms of the informal agreement. While the Company does not expect such concerns to have a material adverse monetary or other impact on its financial condition or results of operations, such concerns could restrict the Bank’s ability to engage in new types of activities, including branching, and may result in increased scrutiny of such proposed activities, or temporary delay or outright denial of any requests for approval of such activities. We are subject to certain risks associated with public company regulation. New laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations or repeal of existing laws and regulations may adversely impact our business. We have incurred substantial cost to interpret and ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and its implementing regulations. The Company cannot be certain of the effect, if any, of the foregoing legislation on the business of the Company. Future changes in the laws, regulation, or policies that impact the Company cannot necessarily be predicted and may have a material effect on the business and earnings of the Company. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects economic conditions for us. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Our earnings are impacted by changing interest rates, which are unpredictable and beyond our control. Changes in interest rates impact the demand for new loans, the credit profile of our borrowers, the rates received on loans and securities and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The difference between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as interest rate spread. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, we would expect our interest rate spread to increase if interest rates rise and, conversely, to decline if interest rates fall. Recent growth trends in interest rates may not continue and/or may reverse. Also, competitive pressures on both the pricing of loans and on the cost of deposits can have the effect of compressing our net interest margin, making it difficult for us to sustain or enhance our net income in the future. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant 23 fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Retirement Plan Administration Business The Bank’s Trust Administration Services Division provides administrative, record keeping and other services for self-directed retirement plans and accounts for which the Bank serves as sponsor and custodian. Recently, both the banking and securities regulatory authorities have increased their scrutiny of the retirement plan industry. This enhanced scrutiny arises from a number of governmental concerns, including investment scams directed at members of the United States’ increasing population of seniors and the potential abuse of retirement accounts to support terrorism financing, money laundering and tax-avoidance schemes. While the Bank’s involvement in the retirement plan industry is limited to providing custodial and other ministerial services for modest fees, the Bank is sensitive to this enhanced industry-wide scrutiny. For this reason, the Bank is currently strengthening its risk management program for its retirement plan business. As a result of increased risk management and screening procedures, and the corresponding paperwork burden imposed on customers, expenses related to this business will rise and, at the same time, the Bank may lose certain existing or prospective customers. This may, in turn, lead to a decline in the profitability of the Trust Administration Services Division. While the Company does not expect these developments to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations, the Bank may be required to take further action if the risk management policies and procedures currently being implemented are later deemed insufficient to address the on-going regulatory concerns. Our recent growth presents certain risks, including a decline in credit quality or capital adequacy. The Company’s substantial asset growth of recent years may continue, even if not at the same percentage rate we have experienced in recent years. Such growth presents certain risks. While management believes that the Company has maintained good credit quality relative to its peers notwithstanding such growth, substantial growth has often been associated with a decline in credit quality at some institutions. Accordingly, continued substantial asset growth could lead to a decline in our credit quality in the future. In addition, continued substantial asset growth could cause a decline in the Company’s or the Bank’s capital adequacy for regulatory purposes, which, in turn, could require the Company to raise additional capital or take other measures in the future to regain “well capitalized” status. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we will sustain losses. A significant source of risk for us arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and guaranties. This risk increases when the economy is weak. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the loan loss reserve, that management believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to successfully execute our strategy could adversely affect our performance. Our financial performance and profitability depends on our ability to execute our corporate strategy. There can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have recently experienced. 24 In addition, while we have no formal acquisition plans, we remain open to such possibilities should competitive circumstances make them advisable or should significant opportunities present themselves. Even if we identify an acquisition candidate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effect an acquisition at a reasonable price or upon favorable terms. Moreover, if we effect an acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired company with our own, or that the acquisition will be otherwise successful or profitable. Our performance is dependent on our maintaining a high quality of service for our customers, and will be impaired by a decline in our quality of service. Our continued successful performance is dependent on our maintaining a high quality of service for our customers. As we continue to grow, it may become increasingly difficult to maintain high service quality for our customers. This could cause a decline in our performance and growth with respect to net income, deposits, assets and other benchmarks. Our size subjects us to lower lending limits than many of our competitors are subject to. The Bank is subject to lending limits, calculated as a function of the Bank’s capital. Because of the Bank’s size, the Bank is limited in the size of loans it is able to make, singly or in the aggregate, to existing or potential customers. As of December 31, 2006, our lending limit for secured loans was approximately $64 million and our lending limit for unsecured loans was approximately $38 million. In the event that a customer’s loan demands exceed the Bank’s lending limits, the Bank may attempt to arrange for such loans on a participation basis with its correspondent banks. Where this is not feasible, the Bank may be unable to make the loan. This may result in the loss of existing or prospective business. Our internal operations are subject to a number of risks. We are subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls and uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental and other liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental or other liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, in the event we become the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. There is a limited trading market for the Company common stock. The Company’s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “FRGB.” However, there is a limited trading market for the Company’s common stock, with an average trading volume of approximately 30,000 shares per trading day. There can be no assurance that that a holder of the Company’s common stock, particularly a large block of stock will have the ability to dispose of such shares 25 in a liquid market or that a more active trading market for the Company’s common stock will develop or will be sustained. The interests of our controlling shareholders may differ from yours. The Company’s directors, executive officers and their related interests have voting control or beneficial ownership of approximately 38% of its outstanding shares (including shares issuable to them upon exercise of vested stock options). In particular, Jack A. Sweeney, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has voting control or beneficial ownership of approximately 29% of the Company’s outstanding common stock (including shares issuable to him upon exercise of vested stock options). The interests of these controlling shareholders may differ from yours. Because of this beneficial ownership and voting power, our controlling shareholders may have the power to substantially control any matter presented to shareholders for a vote, including with respect to the election of directors or other material transactions, such as a future issuance of securities, a potential acquisition of, or take-over proposal made by, another company. As a result, these controlling shareholders may cause the defeat of a proposal you support, or cause the approval of a proposal you oppose. Provisions in the Company’s bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, which could decrease the value of its common stock, and therefore, the Shares. The Company has in place various types of protections which would make it difficult for a company or investor to buy the Company without the approval of the Company’s board of directors. These provisions include the elimination of cumulative voting and the classification of the Board of Directors into two or three classes, depending on the number of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 