Item 1A. Risk Factors. Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans Expose it to Increased Lending Risks. At December 31, 2005, the Company’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $124.6 million, and commercial business loans totaled $39.9 million. These two categories of loans represent 66.2% of the Company’s loan portfolio. The Company plans to continue its emphasis on the origination of these types of loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or commercial business loan outstanding with the Company. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Current Concentration of Loans in its Primary Market Area May Increase its Risk. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in Washington, D.C. and to a lesser extent the Richmond and Hampton, Virginia market areas. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Washington, D.C. The local economic conditions in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area have a significant impact on its loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of its banking operations. The Company targets its business lending and marketing strategy for loans to serve primarily the banking and financial services needs of small to medium size businesses. These small to medium size businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Allowance for Credit Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, its Earnings Could Decrease. The Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of its loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, the Company relies on its loan quality reviews, its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If the Company’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, its allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in its loan portfolio, resulting in additions to its allowance. Material additions to its allowance would materially decrease its net income. 14 The Company’s emphasis on continued diversification of its loan portfolio through the origination of commercial real estate and commercial business loans is one of the more significant factors it takes into account in evaluating its allowance for credit losses and provision for credit losses. As the Company further increases the amount of such types of loans in its portfolio, the Company may determine to make additional or increased provisions for credit losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s loan portfolio and credit underwriting procedures as well as its allowance for credit losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for credit losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in its allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on its interest-bearing liabilities. At December 31, 2005, the Company’s interest rate risk profile indicated that net interest income would increase in a rising interest rate environment, but would decrease in a declining interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company’s interest-earning assets, and in particular the Company’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2005, the Company’s available for sale securities totaled $52.6 million. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity or earnings. The Company also is subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Strong Competition Within Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Market Area May Limit its Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In the Company’s market area, the Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company does and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market area. Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc. Operates in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations. The Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board. ANB is subject to regulation by the OCC and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. CBT is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, the Bureau of Financial Institutions and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the evaluation of the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on the Company and its operations. 15 The Company’s operations are also subject to extensive regulation by other federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because its business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed various laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact its operations, including, among other things, matters pertaining to corporate governance, requirements for listing and maintenance on national securities exchanges and over the counter markets, and Securities and Exchange Commission rules pertaining to public reporting disclosures. There can be no assurance that these proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 