ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We believe that the most significant risks to our business are those set forth below. • If economic conditions continue to decline, our sales and profits are likely to continue to be materially adversely affected. We produce and sell consumer electronic devices which are largely regarded as discretionary purchases. As such, sales of our products are subject to changes in economic conditions particularly in North America, which is our largest market. If the economic climate in the United States deteriorates further, and the economic slowdown continues to affect Europe as well, customers or potential customers are likely to further reduce or delay their purchases of our products, which will have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and profit. 8 Table of Contents • We are dependent upon a small number of third party overseas manufacturers for purchases of inventory. Our products are assembled by a small number of third party manufacturers in Asia. Political or economic instability in the countries in which they operate could affect our production schedules. If these manufacturers should encounter financial difficulties or otherwise experience disruptions resulting in their inability to meet our delivery schedules, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Four manufacturers accounted for 83% of our inventory purchases during fiscal 2009. Political or economic instability could affect our production schedules. • We are Dependent on Development of New Products and Titles. We depend to a large extent on the introduction of successful new products and titles and enhancements of existing products to generate sales growth and replace declining revenues from certain older products and titles. We currently have several new products and titles under development; however, significant development efforts for a number of our proposed new products and titles will be required prior to their commercialization. A significant delay in the introduction of a new product or title could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or the ultimate success of the product or title. In addition, if revenues from new products and titles fail to replace declining revenues from certain existing products and titles, our operating results and growth could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that new products and titles currently under development will be introduced on schedule, that they will gain market acceptance, that they will generate significant revenues, or that we will be able to introduce additional new products and titles in the future. • Our North American Consumer Division is Dependent Upon Sales to a Small Group of Customers. We derived 40% of sales from our North American Consumer Division in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Seventy-four percent of these sales come from 10 customers. If any of these 10 customers were to discontinue buying from us, there is no assurance that we could replace the lost business by increasing sales to existing customers or by finding new customers. • We May Not Maintain Optimal Inventory Levels. Our lead times are necessarily long because of the custom nature of certain components and because most of our components are manufactured and assembled for us by third parties in Asia. Accordingly, production and procurement planning are critically related to our anticipated sales volume. Any significant deviation from projected future sales could result in material shortages or surpluses of inventory. Shortages could cause our distribution base to shrink as customers turn to alternative products. Inventory surpluses could cause cash flow and other financial problems, which might cause us to liquidate inventory at a loss. There can be no assurance that our forecasts of demand for our products will be accurate. Inaccurate forecasts, or unsuccessful efforts by us to cope with surpluses or shortages, could have a material adverse effect on our business. • We Offer Credit To Our Customers And Therefore Are Subject To Significant Credit Risk. We finance a significant portion of our sales through trade credit. As such, our business could be adversely affected in the event of a deterioration of the financial condition of our customers, resulting in the customer’s inability to repay us. The risk may increase based on a general economic downturn affecting our customer’s financial condition. While we have purchased credit insurance with a major global insurance carrier which provides first dollar coverage for most of our U.S. customers and certain overseas customers, we could suffer significant losses if a customer not covered by insurance fails. • We May Continue to be Adversely Affected by Changes in Technology. In general, the consumer electronics and handheld/mobile product markets as a whole with respect to software and hardware, are subject to rapidly changing technology. Accordingly, the technology underlying our products is similarly subject to change. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards has exerted price and/or performance pressure on our existing products and in some cases has rendered such products unmarketable or obsolete. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, as well as additional applications for existing products, in each case on a timely and cost-effective basis, will be a critical factor in our ability to grow and remain competitive. In addition, as technology advances, consumers have the option of fulfilling their needs through different media (internet, phone etc.) which could adversely impact our business. • We Face Significant Competition. The consumer electronics and handheld/mobile product markets are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological advances and the regular introduction of new products or enhancements of existing products. We believe that we face various degrees of competition at different price points and in different geographical regions in these markets. Competitive factors include product quality and reliability, price, performance, brand awareness, marketing and distribution capability, service and reputation. There can be no assurance that companies, whether or not currently in the consumer electronics or handheld product markets, will not enter the markets in which we currently sell our products. Many of such companies have greater capital, research and development, marketing and distribution resources than we do. If new competitors emerge or the existing market becomes more competitive, we could experience significant pressure on prices and margins. 9 Table of Contents • We License Key Titles from Others. We depend on licenses from a variety of well-established publishers such as Merriam-Webster, Harper Collins, Lagardére SCA (Larousse), Ernst Klett International and Langenscheidt KG for the right to distribute approximately 100 reference titles, including several versions of English and bilingual dictionaries, Bible related works, children’s language learning devices, test preparation devices, entertainment-oriented devices and encyclopedias. If an existing license agreement covering certain of our core reference titles was terminated or not renewed, we would have to develop and introduce alternative or new titles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to extend the terms of our existing license agreements or that we will be successful in negotiating alternative or new license agreements. • 8% of Our Sales Come from One Product. We derived 8%, 10% and 12% of consolidated sales for fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively from one product, which we manufacture, under a license that has been renewed through April 1, 2010. The license for this product has been renewed several times since 1993. • Our Intellectual Property Rights May be Challenged. We own utility and design patents in the United States and other countries on our electronic books. There can be no assurance (i) that the claims allowed under any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology, (ii) that the patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or (iii) as to the degree or adequacy of protection any patents or patent applications will afford. We also claim proprietary rights in various technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks which relate to our principal products and operations, none of which rights is the subject of patents or patent applications in any jurisdiction. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection these rights may or will afford us or that third parties will not obtain patent rights that may be interposed against our products. • We Are Subject To International Sales and Currency Fluctuations. We expect that international sales will continue to constitute a material and increasing portion of our business. Our international business is subject to various risks common to international activities, including political and economic instability and the need to comply with both import and export laws, tariff regulations and regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that political or economic instability in any given country or countries will not have an adverse impact on our overall operations. Approximately 39% of our fiscal 2009 sales were made in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, resulting in our being subject to the risk of fluctuation in currency values from period to period. We maintain a program of selling Euros at current rates for future settlement in order to protect the dollar value of sales generated by Euro based foreign subsidiaries. Although economic gains or losses on these contracts are generally offset by the gains or losses on underlying transactions, we seek to minimize its foreign currency exposure on a macro basis rather than at the transactional level. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE 