Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company experienced a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008, the first net loss in the history of the Company. We realized a net loss of $5.8 million for 2008, compared to net income of $3.1 million for 2007. The net loss was the direct result of an $11.8 million charge to the provision for loan losses. The loan loss reserve is the amount required to maintain the allowance for loan losses at an adequate level to absorb probable loan losses. The increase in the provision for loan losses is primarily attributable to our condominium and condo tenant association construction and multi-family residential real estate loan portfolios, which continue to experience deterioration in estimated collateral values and repayment abilities, where repayment is dependent upon the sale of condominium units. Other reasons for the increase in the provision for loan losses are attributable to an overall increase in nonperforming assets and the continuing general weakening of the economic conditions and decline in real estate values in the markets served by the Company. Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans Expose it to Increased Lending Risks. Our financial condition may be affected by a decline in the value of the real estate securing our loans. Real estate values have recently been declining in our market, which may affect our financial condition. If we continue to receive updated appraisals revealing significant additional weakness in our collateral, it will likely result in further losses. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $163.2 million, and commercial business loans totaled $43.7 million. These two categories of loans represent 63.7% of the Company’s loan portfolio. The Company has curtailed its emphasis on the origination of these types of loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or commercial business loan outstanding with the Company. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Current Concentration of Loans in its Primary Market Area May Increase its Risk. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in Washington, D.C. and to a lesser extent the Richmond and Hampton, Virginia market areas. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Washington, D.C. The local economic conditions in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area have a significant impact on its loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of its banking operations. 17 During 2008, there has been a decline in the housing market and real estate markets and in the general economy, both nationally and locally, due to the recession that began in December 2007. Housing markets have deteriorated throughout 2008 and through the present day, as evidenced by reduced levels of sale, increasing inventories of houses and condominiums on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. It is possible that these conditions will not improve or will worsen or that such conditions will result in a decrease in our interest income, an increase in our non-performing loans, and an increase in our provision for loan losses. The Company targets its business lending and marketing strategy for loans to serve primarily the banking and financial services needs of small to medium size businesses. These small to medium size businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Allowance for Credit Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, its operating results will be adversely affected. The Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of its loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, the Company relies on its loan quality reviews, its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If the Company’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, its allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in its loan portfolio, resulting in additions to its allowance. Material additions to its allowance would materially decrease its net income. The Company’s emphasis on continued diversification of its loan portfolio through the origination of commercial real estate and commercial business loans is one of the more significant factors it takes into account in evaluating its allowance for credit losses and provision for credit losses. As the Company further increases the amount of such types of loans in its portfolio, the Company may determine to make additional or increased provisions for credit losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s loan portfolio and credit underwriting procedures as well as its allowance for credit losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for credit losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in its allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on its interest-bearing liabilities. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s interest rate risk profile indicated that net interest income would increase in a rising interest rate environment, but would decrease in a declining interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company’s interest-earning assets, and in particular the Company’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s available for sale securities totaled $62.8 million. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale could have an adverse effect on shareholders’ equity or earnings. 18 The Company also is subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Strong Competition Within Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc.’s Market Area May Limit its Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In the Company’s market area, the Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company does and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market area. Abigail Adams National Bancorp, Inc. Operates in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations and the ANB Written Agreement with the OCC. The Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board. ANB is subject to regulation by the OCC and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. CBT is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, the Bureau of Financial Institutions and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the evaluation of the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on the Company and its operations. The Company’s operations are also subject to extensive regulation by other federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because its business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed various laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact its operations, including, among other things, matters pertaining to corporate governance, requirements for listing and maintenance on national securities exchanges and over the counter markets, and Securities and Exchange Commission rules pertaining to public reporting disclosures. There can be no assurance that these proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or prospects. If the Banks’ current capital ratios decline below the regulatory threshold for an “adequately capitalized” institution, the Banks’ will be considered “undercapitalized” which will have a material and adverse effect on the Company. CBT has met the requisite capital ratios to be considered “well capitalized”. ANB can not be considered “well capitalized” while under the Written Agreement dated October 1, 2008, and must maintain the following capital levels: total risk based capital equal to 12% of risk-weighted assets; tier 1 capital at least equal to 11% of risk-weighted assets; and tier 1 capital at least equal to 9% of adjusted total assets. At December 31, 2008, ANB was considered to be “adequately capitalized” , however ANB’s capital ratio levels did not comply with those required by the Written Agreement. For the capital ratios of each Bank and that of the consolidated Company at December 31, 2008 and 2007 see tables in Note 16 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 19 The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) requires each federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action with respect to banks that do no meet the minimum capital requirements. Once a bank becomes undercapitalized, it is subject to various requirements and restrictions, including a prohibition of the payment of capital distributions and management fees, restrictions on growth of the bank’s assets, and a requirement for prior regulatory approval of certain expansion proposals. In addition, an undercapitalized bank must file a capital restoration plan with its principal federal regulator. If an undercapitalized bank fails in any material aspect to implement a plan approved by its regulator, the agency may impose additional restrictions on the bank. These include, among others, requiring the recapitalization or sale of the bank, restrictions with affiliates, and limiting the interest rates the bank my pay on deposits. Further, even after the bank has attained adequately capitalized status, the appropriate federal agency may, if it determines, after notice and hearing, that the bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition or has not corrected a deficiency from its most recent examination, treat the bank as if it were undercapitalized and subject the bank to the regulatory restrictions of such lower classification. In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions with respect to undercapitalized institutions, insured banks and their holding companies may be subject to potential enforcement actions by their regulators for unsafe and unsound practices in conducting their business or the violations of law or regulation, including the filing of false or misleading regulatory reports. Enforcement actions under this authority may include the issuance of cease and desist orders, the imposition of civil money penalties, the issuance of directives to increase capital, formal and informal agreements, or the removal and prohibition orders against “institution-affiliates parties”. Further, the Federal Reserve may bring an enforcement action against the bank holding company either to address the undercapitalization in the holding company or to require the holding company to implement measures to remediate undercapitalization in a subsidiary. It is possible that if ANB realizes losses over the next few quarters, ANB may fall into the “undercapitalized” regulatory classification, which would have a material and adverse effect on the bank and the Company. The Company’s Expenses Will Increase As A Result Of Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums. On December 22, 2008, the FDIC published a final rule raising the current deposit insurance assessment rates uniformly for all institutions by seven basis points (to a range from 12 to 50 basis points) for the first quarter of 2009. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule changing the way that the FDIC calculates federal deposit insurance assessment rates beginning in the second quarter of 2009. Additionally, the FDIC issued an interim rule that would impose a special 20 basis points assessment on June 30, 2009, which would be collected on September 30, 2009. For more information on FDIC assessments, see “Regulation and Supervision—FDIC Insurance on Deposits”. ANB is no longer considered “well capitalized” for regulatory capital purposes, which will cause the Bank to incur increased premiums for deposit insurance and require FDIC approval to gather brokered deposits including CDARS reciprocal deposits. As of the date of the Written Agreement with the OCC, October 1, 2008, ANB is not considered “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes. As a result, the FDIC will assess higher deposit insurance premiums on ANB, which will negatively impact earnings. In addition, we will be required to obtain FDIC approval to gather or renew brokered deposits including CDARS reciprocal deposits, during such time as we remain “adequately capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Requiring us to obtain regulatory approval prior to accepting or renewing brokered deposits will affect our ability to improve our liquidity position. ANB’s capital ratios will likely restrict our ability to grow our balance sheet as we have in the past, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. The net loss in 2008 has reduced our stockholders’ equity. If we experience additional losses in the future, it will likely restrict our ability to grow the balance sheet as we have in the past. Accordingly, ANB’s short term strategy is to manage our credit quality and strengthen, rather than grow, our balance sheet. If our credit quality continues to deteriorate, additional decreases to stockholders’ equity may occur. Any future growth may subject ANB to risk that such growth, absent an increase in ANB regulatory capital, would cause ANB to remain below the minimum requirements to be considered “adequately capitalized”. If we are not able to grow our assets, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected. Our business is subject to liquidity risk, and changes in our source of funds may adversely affect our performance and financial condition by increasing out cost of funds. Our ability to make loans is directly related to our ability to secure funding. Core deposits are our primary source of liquidity. We rely on advances from the FHLB of Atlanta as a funding source. Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, ANB did not have access to purchase federal funds under agreements from other correspondent banks and it is possible that ANB will continue to not have access to purchase federal funds while under the Written Agreement with the OCC. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 