Item 1A. Risk Factors Some of the important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a history of significant operating losses and expect these losses to continue in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses each year since our inception and expect these losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We had a net loss of approximately $88,593,000 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $337,428,000. The losses have resulted primarily from costs incurred in research and development, including our clinical trials, from sales and marketing, and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations and product sales of FACTIVE tablets. These costs have exceeded our revenues which to date have been generated principally from sales of FACTIVE, co-promotion revenues based on the sale of TESTIM gel, collaborations, government grants and sequencing services. We anticipate that we will incur additional losses in the current year and in future years and cannot predict when, if ever, we will achieve profitability. These losses are expected to continue and potentially increase as we continue significant levels of expenditures, principally in the sales and marketing area as we seek to grow sales of FACTIVE tablets and continue the co-promotion of TESTIM gel and in research and development in connection with clinical trials and formulation activities to support the existing labeling of FACTIVE tablets, the expansion of FACTIVE labeling claims and the development of Ramoplanin. In addition, our partners’ product development efforts which utilize our genomic discoveries are at an early stage and, accordingly, we do not expect our losses to be substantially mitigated by revenues from milestone payments or royalties under those agreements for a number of years, if ever. Our business will be very dependent on the commercial success of FACTIVE and TESTIM. FACTIVE tablets and TESTIM gel are currently our only commercial products and we expect that they will likely account for substantially all of our product revenues for at least the next several years. FACTIVE tablets have FDA marketing approval for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia of mild to moderate severity, or CAP, and acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, or AECB. TESTIM gel has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of male hypogonadism. The commercial success of FACTIVE and TESTIM will depend upon their continued acceptance by regulators, physicians, patients and other key decision-makers as a safe, therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to other products used, or currently being developed, to treat CAP and AECB, in the case of FACTIVE tablets, or male hypogonadism, in the case of TESTIM gel. The commercial success of TESTIM gel is also dependent, in part, on the marketing and detailing efforts of Auxilium, which efforts are beyond our control. If FACTIVE and TESTIM are not commercially successful, we will have to find additional sources of funding or curtail or cease operations. We will likely need to raise additional funds in the future. We believe our existing funds and anticipated cash flows from operations would be sufficient to support our current plans through the end of 2006. We will likely raise additional capital in the future to fund our operations, in particular, to support our sales and marketing activities, fund clinical trials and other research and development activities, and other potential commercial or development opportunities. We may seek funding through additional public or private equity offerings, debt or other strategic financings or agreement with customers or vendors. In order to facilitate the raising of additional funds, we have filed a shelf registration statement that allows us to sell up to $100,000,000 of our common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, however, will be heavily influenced by, among other factors, the investment market for biopharmaceutical companies and the progress of 17 Table of Contents the FACTIVE, TESTIM and Ramoplanin commercial and clinical development programs. Additional financing may not be available to us when needed, or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. If we cannot obtain adequate financing on acceptable terms when such financing is required, our business will be adversely affected. Future fund raising could dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. In order to raise additional funds, we may issue equity or convertible debt securities in the future. Depending upon the market price of our shares at the time of any transaction, we may be required to sell a significant percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock in order to fund our operating plans, potentially requiring a stockholder vote. In addition, we may have to sell securities at a discount to the prevailing market price, resulting in further dilution to our stockholders. We will need to continue to develop marketing and sales capabilities to successfully commercialize FACTIVE tablets, TESTIM and our other product candidates. FACTIVE tablets are our first FDA approved product. To date, we still have limited marketing and sales experience. The launch of FACTIVE occurred in September of 2004 and the co-promotion of TESTIM gel began in May 2005. The continued development of these marketing and sales capabilities, including the expansion of our sales force, will require significant expenditures, management resources and time. Further, as part of this development, we may seek to establish a co-promotion partnership in the future to expand FACTIVE commercialization in the U.S. or in our other licensed territories and/or acquire additional products for our expanded sales force. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to enter into a co-promotion agreement or acquire new products on favorable terms or at all. Failure to successfully establish sufficient sales and marketing capabilities in a timely and regulatory compliant manner or to find suitable sales and marketing partners may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our product and product candidates will face significant competition in the marketplace. FACTIVE tablets are approved for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia of mild to moderate severity and acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis. There are several classes of antibiotics that are primary competitors for the treatment of these indications, including: • other fluoroquinolones such as Levaquin® (levofloxacin), a product of Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc., Tequin® (gatifloxacin), a product of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and Cipro® (ciprofloxacin) and Avelox® (moxifloxacin), both products of Bayer Corporation; • macrolides such as Biaxin® (clarithromycin), a product of Abbott Laboratories and Zithromax® (azithromycin), a product of Pfizer Inc., as well as generic equivalents of Zithromax; • Ketek® (telithromycin), a ketolide from Sanofi-Aventis Pharmaceuticals; and • penicillins such as Augmentin® (amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium), a product of GlaxoSmithKline, as well as generic equivalents of this product. Many generic antibiotics are also currently prescribed to treat these infections. Moreover, a number of the antibiotic products that are competitors of FACTIVE tablets have gone or will be going off patent at dates ranging from 2003 to 2015. As these competitors lose patent protection, their manufacturers will likely decrease their promotional efforts. However, makers of generic drugs will likely begin to produce some of these competing products and this could result in pressure on the price at which we are able to sell FACTIVE tablets and reduce our profit margins. 18 Table of Contents The primary competition for TESTIM gel for the treatment of male hypogonadism is ANDROGEL®, marketed by Solvay Pharmaceuticals. ANDROGEL was launched approximately three years before TESTIM and, according to NDC, has a much larger share of the testosterone gel market than TESTIM gel and also accounted for approximately 55% of total testosterone prescriptions for the year ended December 31, 2005. TESTIM gel also competes with other forms of testosterone replacement therapies, or TRT, such as oral treatments, patches, injectables and a buccal tablet. Generally, testosterone gels are more expensive than patches and injectables. ANDRODERM® is a transdermal testosterone patch marketed by Watson Pharmaceuticals. ANDRODERM is the leading patch product and accounted for approximately 10% of total testosterone prescriptions for the year ended December 31, 2005. Other new treatments are being sought for TRT which may compete with TESTIM gel. We are also aware that Watson Pharmaceuticals filed an abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) for generic ANDROGEL which was approved by the FDA on January 27, 2006. Par Pharmaceutical has also filed an ANDA with the FDA for generic ANDROGEL for which its partner, Paddock Laboratories, received tentative approval on November 1, 2004. Solvay Pharmaceuticals has filed patent infringement lawsuits against these two companies. The launch of Watson’s generic version of ANDROGEL, the final approval of the Par ANDA or the resolution of the ongoing patent infringement lawsuit in favor of Watson and/or Par would result in increased competition for TESTIM gel at lower prices. Ramoplanin is in clinical development for the treatment of Clostridium difficile-associated disease (CDAD). We are aware of two products currently utilized in the marketplace—Vancocin® pulvules (vancomycin), a product marketed by ViroPharma, and metronidazole, a generic product—for treatment of this indication. We are also aware of at least eight companies with products in development for the treatment of CDAD. It is also possible that other companies are developing competitive products for this indication. Additionally, we are aware that Vicuron and Novartis AG are jointly developing PDF inhibitor agents that may compete with any PDF products developed by our company. All of our other internal product programs are in earlier stages and have not yet reached clinical development and are not yet indication specific. Our alliance-related product development programs are also all in preclinical stages, and it is therefore not possible to identify any product profiles or competitors for these product development programs at this time. Our industry is very competitive and it therefore is likely that if and when product candidates from our early stage internal programs or our alliance programs reach the clinical development stage or are commercialized for sale, these products will also face competition. Many of our competitors will have substantially greater capital resources, facilities and human resources than us. Furthermore, many of those competitors are more experienced than us in drug discovery, clinical development and commercialization, and in obtaining regulatory approvals. As a result, those competitors may discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products or services before us. In addition, our competitors may discover, develop and commercialize products or services that are more effective than, or otherwise render non-competitive or obsolete, the products or services that we or our collaborators are seeking to develop and commercialize. Moreover, these competitors may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would limit our rights or the ability of our collaborators to develop or commercialize pharmaceutical products or services. We cannot expand the indications for which we will market FACTIVE unless we receive FDA approval for each additional indication. Failure to expand these indications will limit the size of the commercial market for FACTIVE. In April 2003, FACTIVE tablets were approved by the FDA for the seven-day treatment of community-acquired pneumonia of mild to moderate severity (CAP) and the five-day treatment of acute bacterial 19 Table of Contents exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB). The original owner of rights to FACTIVE in the U.S. submitted a New Drug Application for FACTIVE for the treatment of several indications, including ABS, and received a non-approvable letter in December 2000. In November of 2005, we submitted a supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) to the FDA seeking approval for the use of FACTIVE for the five-day treatment of ABS and the five-day treatment of CAP. On January 19, 2006, the FDA accepted for filing our sNDA for five-day CAP but refused to accept the sNDA filing for ABS. In its refusal to accept the sNDA filing for ABS, the FDA indicated that FACTIVE did not exhibit an acceptable risk versus benefit profile for the ABS indication. In addition, the FDA expressed the opinion that demonstrating an acceptable risk versus benefit profile for FACTIVE in ABS was not feasible, given the FDA’s view of the potential risk of rash in those patients. Although we continue our discussions with the FDA regarding the ABS indication, we cannot guarantee the timing to address the FDA’s concerns or whether the ABS indication will ever be approved. The FDA has granted a standard ten-month review period for the five-day CAP sNDA. We cannot be certain whether additional data will be required, if we will be required to conduct additional clinical trials or if the five-day CAP sNDA will ultimately be approved. In order to market FACTIVE for other indications, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials, obtain positive results from those trials and obtain FDA approval for such proposed indications. If we are unsuccessful in expanding the approved indications for the use of FACTIVE, the size of the commercial market for FACTIVE will be limited. Seasonal fluctuations in demand for FACTIVE may cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. We expect demand for FACTIVE to be higher between November 1 and March 31 as the incidence of respiratory tract infections, including CAP and AECB, tend to increase during the winter months. As a result, we expect our sales of FACTIVE to be higher during this season. In addition, fluctuations in the severity of the annual respiratory tract infection season may cause our product sales to vary from year to year. Due to these seasonal fluctuations in demand, our results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the entire year. We as well as our partners are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may harm our business. The testing, development and manufacturing and distribution of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe, Mexico and elsewhere. These regulations govern or affect the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record-keeping, approval, distribution, advertising and promotion of FACTIVE, TESTIM, Ramoplanin and our other product candidates, as well as safe working conditions and the experimental use of animals. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements can result in refusal of the government to approve products for marketing, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. The U.S. government agencies include, but are not limited to, the FDA, the Office of Inspector General and the Department of Justice. Our corporate compliance program cannot ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such regulations or a failure to prevail in litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. The FDA and comparable governmental authorities have the authority to withdraw product approvals that have been previously granted. Currently, there is a substantial amount of congressional and administrative review of the FDA and the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. As a result, there may be significant changes made to the regulatory approval process in the U.S. In addition, the regulatory requirements relating to the manufacturing, testing, and promotion, marketing and distribution of our products may change in the U.S. or the other jurisdictions in which we may have obtained or be seeking regulatory approval for our products or product candidates. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. 20 Table of Contents In addition, pharmaceutical companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. While we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based upon what we believe are current best practices, we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from future lawsuits or investigations. Failure to comply with or changes to the regulatory requirements that are applicable to FACTIVE, TESTIM or our other product candidates may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; • warning letters regarding promotional and marketing materials and activities; • withdrawal of FACTIVE, TESTIM or a product candidate from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recall of FACTIVE, TESTIM or a product candidate; • fines against us or our partners; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for FACTIVE, TESTIM or a product candidate; • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate; • refusal to permit import or export of our products; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we or our partners submit; • denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; • product seizure; and • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us or our partners. Testosterone is classified by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency as a controlled substance and our failure or Auxilium’s failure to comply with these heightened regulations could harm our business. TESTIM gel contains testosterone which is listed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, as a Schedule III substance under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. The DEA classifies substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. Scheduled substances are subject to DEA regulations relating to manufacturing, storage, distribution and physician prescription procedures. Auxilium must register annually with the DEA to manufacture, distribute, dispense, import, export, and conduct research using controlled substances. State controlled substance laws also require registration for similar activities. In addition, the DEA requires entities handling controlled substances to maintain records and file reports, follow specific labeling and packaging requirements, and provide appropriate security measures to control against diversion of controlled substances. Failure to follow these requirements can lead to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and possibly even lead to a revocation of a DEA registration. In addition, products containing controlled substances may generate public controversy. As a result, these products may have their marketing rights or regulatory approvals withdrawn. Political pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in, and increased expenses for, and limit or restrict the marketing of TESTIM gel. Such delays, restrictions or expenses could harm our business. 21 Table of Contents If testosterone replacement therapies are perceived to create or do create health risks, sales of TESTIM may be adversely affected. Recent studies of female hormone replacement therapy products have reported an increase in health risks. As a result of such studies, some companies that sell or develop female hormone replacement products have experienced decreased sales of these products, and in some cases, a decline in the value of their stock. Publications have, from time to time, suggested potential health risks associated with testosterone replacement therapy, or TRT. Potential health risks were described in various articles, including a 2002 article published in Endocrine Practice and a 1999 article published in the International Journal of Andrology. The potential health risks detailed were fluid retention, sleep apnea, breast tenderness or enlargement, increased red blood cells, development of clinical prostate disease, increased cardiovascular disease risk and the suppression of sperm production. It is possible that studies on the effects of TRT could demonstrate these or other health risks. This, as well as negative publicity about the risks of hormone replacement therapy, including TRT, could adversely affect patient or prescriber attitudes and impact TESTIM sales. Sales of TESTIM will be highly dependent upon physician acceptance of testosterone replacement therapy for the treatment of hypogonadism. TESTIM gel is a testosterone replacement therapy, or TRT, approved for the treatment of hypogonadism, a disorder that affects approximately 20% of the U.S. male population over age 50. However, only about 5% of hypogonadal men currently receive TRT to treat their condition. Significant effort may be necessary to educate physicians, particularly primary care physicians, regarding the benefits of TRT for hypogonadal men. If TRT does not gain wider acceptance among physicians for the treatment of hypogonadism, the growth of TESTIM sales could be adversely affected. We will depend on third parties to manufacture and distribute our products and product candidates, including FACTIVE tablets, TESTIM and Ramoplanin. We do not have the internal capability to manufacture pharmaceutical products. Under our agreement with LG Life Sciences, LG Life Sciences manufactures bulk quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredient of FACTIVE, and we use Patheon to produce the finished FACTIVE tablets. The co-promotion agreement for TESTIM gel provides that Auxilium is responsible for the manufacture and distribution of TESTIM gel. TESTIM gel is currently manufactured for Auxilium by DPT Laboratories. Although the LG Life Sciences and DPT Laboratories facilities have previously been inspected by the FDA, future inspections may find deficiencies in the facilities or processes that may delay or prevent the manufacture or sale of our products. Auxilium’s contract with DPT Laboratories to manufacture TESTIM gel expires on December 31, 2010. Although Auxilium is currently in the process of qualifying a back-up supplier to manufacture TESTIM gel, there is currently no alternative manufacturer of TESTIM gel. If there is significant delay in qualifying this back-up supplier, there could be future supply shortages of TESTIM gel. Auxilium also relies on third party suppliers for their supply of testosterone and pentadecalactone, or CPD, two key ingredients of TESTIM gel. Testosterone is available to Auxilium from only two sources. Auxilium relies exclusively on one outside source for their supply of CPD. Auxilium does not have any agreements with these suppliers regarding these key ingredients. If either of the two sources that produce testosterone stops manufacturing it, or if Auxilium is unable to procure testosterone on commercially favorable terms, Auxilium may be unable to continue to produce TESTIM on commercially viable terms, if at all. In addition, if Auxilium’s third-party source of CPD stops manufacturing pharmaceutical grade CPD, or does not make CPD available to Auxilium on commercially favorable terms, Auxilium may be unable to continue to produce TESTIM on commercially viable terms, if at all. Furthermore, the limited number of suppliers of testosterone and CPD may provide such companies with greater opportunity to raise their prices. Any increase in price for testosterone or CPD may reduce the gross margins on sales of TESTIM gel. 22 Table of Contents Pursuant to our recent acquisition from Vicuron of worldwide rights to Ramoplanin, we assumed all responsibility for manufacture of Ramoplanin and are currently in discussions with potential third-party manufacturers for Ramoplanin in order to secure long term product supply. If there is a significant delay in securing a qualified supplier on commercially favorable terms or a delay in the technology transfer from Vicuron, we could experience a supply shortage of Ramoplanin bulk drug, affecting our ability to complete the anticipated Phase III clinical program and/or begin commercialization of Ramoplanin. We cannot be certain that LG Life Sciences, DPT Laboratories, Patheon or future manufacturers will be able to deliver commercial quantities of product or that such deliveries will be made on a timely basis. The only source of supply for FACTIVE bulk drug substance is LG Life Sciences’ facility in South Korea, and Patheon is currently our only source of finished FACTIVE tablets. DPT Laboratories is currently the only qualified manufacturer of TESTIM gel. If these facilities are damaged or otherwise unavailable, we could incur substantial costs and delay in the commercialization of our products. Depending upon our discussions regarding a long term source supplier for Ramoplanin or other product candidates, we could also incur substantial costs and delays in the further commercialization of such products. We may not be able to enter into alternative supply arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. Also, if we change the source or location of supply or modify the manufacturing process, regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the product produced by the new source or from the modified process is equivalent to the product used in any clinical trials that we had conducted. Moreover, while we may choose to manufacture products in the future, we have no experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products for clinical trials or commercial purposes. If we decide to manufacture products, it would be subject to the regulatory requirements described above. In addition, we would require substantial additional capital and would be subject to delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. No matter who manufactures the products, we will be subject to continuing obligations regarding the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. We will depend on third parties to manage our product supply chain for FACTIVE tablets and TESTIM. We do not have the internal capability to perform product supply chain services including warehousing, inventory management and distribution of commercial and sample quantities of FACTIVE tablets. We have an exclusive arrangement with Integrated Commercial Solutions, Inc. (ICS) to perform such supply chain manufacturing services for a three-year period. Under our agreement with Auxilium, Auxilium provides all supply chain services for TESTIM gel. We cannot be certain that ICS and Auxilium will be able to perform uninterrupted supply chain services. If ICS or Auxilium were unable to perform their services for any period, we may incur substantial loss of sales to wholesalers and other purchasers of our products. If we are forced to find an alternative supply chain service provider for FACTIVE tablets, in addition to loss of sales, we may also incur costs in establishing a new arrangement. Wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals may not maintain adequate distribution for our products. We sell FACTIVE to wholesale drug distributors who generally sell products to retail pharmacies and other institutional customers. We do not promote FACTIVE to these wholesalers, and they do not determine FACTIVE prescription demand. However, approximately 81% of our product shipments during 2005 were to only two wholesalers. Our ability to commercialize FACTIVE tablets will depend, in part, on the extent to which we maintain adequate distribution of FACTIVE tablets via wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals, as well as other customers. Although a majority of the larger wholesalers and retailers distribute and stock FACTIVE tablets, they may be reluctant to do so in the future if demand is not established. Further, it is possible that wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. This could result in their refusal to distribute smaller volume products, or cause higher product distribution costs, lower margins or the need to 23 Table of Contents find alternative methods of distributing products. Such alternative methods may not exist or may not be economically viable. If we do not maintain adequate distribution of FACTIVE tablets, the commercialization of FACTIVE and our anticipated revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. The development and commercialization of our products may be terminated or delayed, and the costs of development and commercialization may increase, if third parties who we rely on to support the development and commercialization of our products do not fulfill their obligations. In addition to using third parties to fulfill our manufacturing, distribution and supply chain services, our development and commercialization strategy entails entering into arrangements with corporate collaborators, contract research organizations, licensors, licensees and others to conduct development work, manage our clinical trials and market and sell our products outside of the United States. We will not have the expertise or the resources to conduct such activities on our own and, as a result, we will be particularly dependent on third parties in these areas. For instance, we recently entered into a sublicense arrangement with Pfizer, S.A. de C.V. (Pfizer Mexico), whereby Pfizer Mexico will commercialize FACTIVE tablets in Mexico in exchange for which Pfizer Mexico will make to Oscient an up-front payment, and pay milestones upon obtaining certain regulatory approvals and sales goals as well as royalties on future sales. We may not be able to maintain our existing arrangements with respect to the commercialization of our existing products, FACTIVE and TESTIM, or establish and maintain arrangements to develop and commercialize Ramoplanin or any additional product candidates or products we may acquire on terms that are acceptable to us. Any current or future arrangements for development and commercialization may not be successful. If we are not able to establish or maintain agreements relating to our current products, Ramoplanin or any additional products we may acquire on terms which we deem favorable, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Third parties may not perform their obligations as expected. The amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to developing and commercializing our products are not within our control. Furthermore, our interests may differ from those of third parties that commercialize our products. Disagreements that may arise with these third parties could delay or lead to the termination of the development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If any third party that supports the development or commercialization of our products breaches or terminates its agreement with us, or fails to conduct its activities in a timely and regulatory compliant manner, such breach, termination or failure could: • delay or otherwise adversely impact the development or commercialization of FACTIVE tablets, TESTIM, Ramoplanin, our other product candidates or any additional product candidates that we may acquire or develop; • require us to undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote unforeseen additional resources to the development or commercialization of our products; or • result in the termination of the development or commercialization of our products. Clinical trials are costly, time consuming and unpredictable, and we have limited experience conducting and managing necessary preclinical and clinical trials for our product candidates. The Phase II trial for our product candidate, Ramoplanin, to assess the safety and efficacy of treating Clostridium difficile-associated disease, or CDAD, was completed in 2004. The Phase III program will be ready for initiation subject to planning and implementing a clinical trial development plan with our third-party contractor and securing additional batches of the Ramoplanin drug substance from a long term bulk drug 24 Table of Contents supplier. Prior clinical and preclinical trials for Ramoplanin were conducted by Vicuron and its licensees, from whom we acquired rights to Ramoplanin. We may not be able to complete future trials or make the filings within the timeframes we currently expect. If we are delayed in completing the trials or making the filings, our business may be adversely affected. We are currently conducting a Phase IV post-approval clinical trial relating to FACTIVE tablets in compliance with FDA requirements pursuant to the product’s approval. Further, depending upon our discussions with the FDA regarding the ABS indication, we may need to conduct additional trials. Such trials would entail significant time and expense and the FDA has indicated doubt as to the likelihood of their success. Additionally, clinical trials may be necessary to gain approval to market the product for the treatment of other indications. We may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of FACTIVE in indications other than those for which it has already been approved or of our other products including Ramoplanin, in each case, to the satisfaction of the FDA, or other regulatory authorities. We may also be required to demonstrate that our proposed products represent an improved form of treatment over existing therapies and we may be unable to do so without conducting further clinical studies. Negative, inconclusive or inconsistent clinical trial results could prevent regulatory approval, increase the cost and timing of regulatory approval or require additional studies or a filing for a narrower indication. The speed with which we are able to complete our clinical trials and our applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following: • the rate of patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and the nature of the protocol; • fluctuations in the infection rates for patients available to enroll in our trials; • compliance of patients and investigators with the protocol and applicable regulations; • prior regulatory agency review and approval of our applications and procedures; • analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities which are susceptible to varying interpretations, which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug approval during the period of product development; and • the availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical studies, to accurately collect data and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications. In addition, the cost of human clinical trials varies dramatically based on a number of factors, including the order and timing of clinical indications pursued, the extent of development and financial support from alliance partners, the number of patients required for enrollment, the difficulty of obtaining clinical supplies of the product candidate, and the difficulty in obtaining sufficient patient populations and clinicians. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory marketing approvals. We may not be able to obtain the approvals necessary to conduct clinical studies. Also, the results of our clinical trials may not be consistent with the results obtained in preclinical studies or the results obtained in later phases of clinical trials may not be consistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal and human testing. Even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the requirement to conduct post-approval clinical studies. We may be 25 Table of Contents restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining product approval, if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered. Our failure to acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products will impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to acquire, develop and commercialize additional product candidates or approved products. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire biopharmaceutical products that meet our criteria. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. The acquisition of rights to additional products would likely require us to make significant upfront cash payments which could adversely affect our liquidity and/or accelerate our need to raise additional capital. New product candidates acquired or in-licensed by us may require additional research and development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive preclinical and/or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe, effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, it is uncertain whether any approved products that we develop or acquire will be: • manufactured or produced economically; • successfully commercialized; or • widely accepted in the marketplace. Results related to post-marketing studies could restrict our ability to commercialize FACTIVE tablets. In December 2000, the FDA issued a non-approvable letter to the prior owner of rights to FACTIVE due, in part, to safety concerns arising out of an increased rate of rash relative to comparator drugs, especially in young women. While the FDA did approve FACTIVE tablets for marketing in April 2003, it required, as a post-marketing study commitment, that we conduct a prospective, randomized study comparing FACTIVE tablets (5,000 patients) to an active comparator (2,500 patients) in patients with CAP or AECB. This study includes patients of different ethnicities to gain safety information in populations not substantially represented in the existing clinical trial program, specifically as it relates to rash. Patients will be evaluated for clinical and laboratory measures of safety. This Phase IV trial, with the approval from the FDA, was initiated in the second half of 2004. In connection with the approval of FACTIVE tablets, the FDA has also required us to perform a utilization study to obtain data on the prescribing patterns and use of FACTIVE tablets for the first three years after initial marketing in the U.S. As part of this requirement, we furnish interim reports to the FDA annually on the number of prescriptions issued, including refills, and the diagnoses for which the prescriptions are dispensed. The results of the Phase IV trial and the utilization study that we are required to provide to the FDA, as well as other safety information arising out of post-marketing safety surveillance, could restrict our ability to commercialize FACTIVE tablets. Our intellectual property protection and other protections may be inadequate to protect our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain commercially valuable patent claims and protect our intellectual property. We currently own or license approximately 69 issued U.S. patents, approximately 81 pending U.S. patent applications, 156 issued foreign patents and approximately 193 pending foreign patent applications. These patents and patent applications primarily relate to (1) the chemical composition, use, and method of manufacturing FACTIVE, (2) metalloenzyme inhibitors, their uses, their targets, (3) anti-infective compounds and their uses, and (4) the field of human and pathogen genetics. Our material patents are as follows: • U.S. Patent No. 5,633,262 granted May 27, 1997, relating to quinoline carboxylic acid derivatives having 7-(4-amino-methyl-3-oxime) pyrrolidine substituent; licensed from LG Life Sciences; expiring June 15, 2015; 26 Table of Contents • U.S. Patent No. 5,776,944 granted July 7, 1998, relating to 7-(4-aminomethyl-3-methyloxyiminopyrroplidin-1-yl)-1-cyclopropyl-6-fluoro-4-oxo-1,4-dihydro-1, 8-naphthyridine-3-carboxylic acid; licensed from LG Life Sciences; expiring June 15, 2015; • U.S. Patent No. 5,869,670 granted February 9, 1999, relating to 7-(4-aminomethyl-3-methyloxyiminopyrrolidin-1-yl)-1-cyclopropyl-6-fluoro-4-oxo-1,4-dihydro-1, 8-naphthyridine-3-carboxylic acid; licensed from LG Life Sciences; expiring June 15, 2015; • U.S. Patent No. 5,962,468 granted October 5, 1999, relating to 7-(4-aminomethyl-3-methyloxyiminopyrrolidin-1-yl)-1-cyclopropyl-6-fluoro-4-oxo-1,4-dihydro-1, 8-naphthyridine-3 carboxylic acid; licensed from LG Life Sciences; expiring June 15, 2015; • U.S. Patent No. 6,340,689 granted January 22, 2002, relating to methods of using quinolone compounds against atypical upper respiratory pathogenic bacteria; licensed from LG Life Sciences; expiring September 14, 2019; • U.S. Patent No. 6,262,071 granted July 17, 2001, relating to methods of using antimicrobial compounds against pathogenic Mycoplasma bacteria; licensed from LG Life Sciences; expiring September 21, 2019; • U.S. Patent No. 6,331,550 granted December 18, 2001, relating to methods of using of quinolone compounds against anaerobic pathogenic bacteria; licensed from LG Life Sciences; expiring September 21, 2019; • U.S. Patent No. 6,455,540 granted September 24, 2002, relating to methods of use of quinolone compounds against anaerobic pathogenic bacteria; licensed from LG Life Sciences; expiring September 21, 2019; • U.S. Patent No. 6,723,734 granted April 20, 2004, relating to the salt of naphythyridine carboxylic acid derivative; licensed from LG Life Science; expiring March 20, 2018. • U.S. Patent No. 6,803,376 granted October 12, 2004, relating to methods of use of quinolone compounds against pneumococcal pathogenic bacteria; licensed from LG Life Science; expiring September 21, 2019. We are not currently involved in any litigation, settlement negotiations, or other legal action regarding patent issues and we are not aware of any patent litigation threatened against us. Our patent position involves complex legal and factual questions, and legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in the applicable technology fields are still evolving. Therefore, the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Under our license agreement with LG Life Sciences, we obtained an exclusive license to develop and market gemifloxacin in certain territories. This license covers 18 issued U.S. patents and a broad portfolio of corresponding foreign patents and pending patent applications. These patents include claims that relate to the chemical composition of FACTIVE, methods of manufacturing and its use for the prophylaxis and treatment of bacterial infections. The U.S. patents are currently set to expire at various dates, ranging from 2018, in the case of the principal patents relating to FACTIVE tablets, to 2019. We have filed a patent term extension application covering the regulatory review process for one of the principal patents, U.S. Patent 5,776,944, expiring in 2015. If granted, this extension would extend the exclusivity period through 2017. We also have the exclusive right to use FACTIVE trademarks, trade names, domain names and logos in conjunction with the use or sale of the product in the territories covered by the license. LG Life Sciences, as owner of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,776,944 and 5,962,468, submitted requests for reexamination to the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office, or PTO, in order to place additional references into the 27 Table of Contents record of each patent. Both requests were granted by the PTO. Patents ‘944 and ‘468 have been reexamined with relatively minor modifications to the claims and confirmed patentable over the submitted references. The patents to Ramoplanin, which we recently acquired from Pfizer Inc., include claims relating to methods of manufacturing Ramoplanin as well as methods increasing the yield of the active compound. We also have applications pending relating to various novel uses of Ramoplanin. The patent covering the chemical composition of Ramoplanin has expired. To provide additional protection for Ramoplanin, we rely on proprietary know-how relating to maximizing yields in the manufacture of Ramoplanin, and intend to rely on the five years of data exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act in the U.S. and the ten years of market exclusively in Europe available through the European Commission. The risks and uncertainties that we will face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: • the pending patent applications that we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents, may result in issued patents with narrower claims than anticipated or may take longer than expected to result in issued patents; • the claims of any patents which are issued may be limited from those in the patent applications and may not provide meaningful protection; • we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us or our partners may not provide a competitive advantage; • other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us or our partners; • patents issued to other companies may harm our ability to do business; • other companies may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies; and • other companies may design around technologies we have licensed or developed. We rely on Auxilium’s license of Bentley Pharmaceuticals’ intellectual property which provides limited patent protection for TESTIM. Currently, TESTIM gel is not covered by composition of matter patents. Testosterone, the active ingredient in TESTIM gel, is off-patent and is included in competing testosterone replacement therapy products. The U.S. patent that Auxilium licenses from Bentley Pharmaceuticals relates to a key component of the formulation of TESTIM gel and expires in June 2008. Bentley has filed a new patent application relating to the formulation in the U.S. which, if issued, could provide additional patent protection for TESTIM gel. Moreover, patent prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of the Bentley patent portfolio as it relates to TESTIM gel is controlled by Auxilium. Accordingly, we may be unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our internally developed intellectual property or intellectual property which we directly license. Without additional patent protection, generic competition of TESTIM gel could adversely affect our sales. Furthermore, Auxilium’s failure to perform under its license arrangement with Bentley could result in the termination of the license and our ability to market TESTIM gel. We may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties and may become involved in expensive intellectual property litigation. The intellectual property rights of biopharmaceutical companies, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our success in developing and commercializing biopharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others and to prevent others from infringing on our intellectual property rights. 28 Table of Contents There has been substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights in the biopharmaceutical industry. We may become party to patent litigation or proceedings at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a foreign patent office to determine our patent rights with respect to third parties which may include competitors in the biopharmaceutical industry. Interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or opposition proceedings in a foreign patent office may be necessary to establish which party was the first to discover such intellectual property. We may become involved in patent litigation against third parties to enforce our patent rights, to invalidate patents held by such third parties, or to defend against such claims. The cost to us of any patent litigation or similar proceeding could be substantial, and it may absorb significant management time. We do not expect to maintain separate insurance to cover intellectual property infringement. Our general liability insurance policy does not cover our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. If infringement litigation against us is resolved unfavorably, we may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling certain of our products or services without a license from a third party. We may not be able to obtain such a license on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. International patent protection is uncertain. Patent law outside the United States is uncertain and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our or our competitors’ foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. Our proprietary position may depend on our ability to protect our proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. We rely upon certain proprietary confidential information, trademarks, unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We generally protect this information with confidentiality agreements that provide that all confidential information developed or made known to others during the course of the employment, consulting or business relationship shall be kept confidential except in specified circumstances. Agreements with employees provide that all inventions conceived by the individual while employed by us are our exclusive property. We cannot guarantee, however, that these agreements will be honored, that we will have adequate remedies for breach if they are not honored or that our proprietary confidential information and trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We will bear substantial responsibilities under our license agreement for FACTIVE, our co-promotion agreement for TESTIM and our sublicense agreement to Pfizer, S.A. de C.V., and there can be no assurance that we will successfully fulfill our responsibilities. FACTIVE We have an exclusive license from LG Life Sciences to develop and market FACTIVE in North America and France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, Greece, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino and Vatican City. Under this agreement, we are responsible, at our expense and through consultation with LG Life Sciences, for the clinical and commercial development of FACTIVE in the countries covered by the license, including the conduct of clinical trials, the filing of drug approval applications with the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities and the marketing, distribution and sale of FACTIVE in our territory. The agreement also requires a minimum sales commitment over a period of time, which if not met, would result in the technology being returned to LG Life Sciences. We believe that we are currently in compliance with our obligations under the agreement with LG Life Sciences, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance due to the limitations on our resources and the many risks of conducting clinical trials, as described above in “Clinical trials are costly, time consuming and unpredictable, and we have limited experience 29 Table of Contents conducting and managing necessary preclinical and clinical trials for our product candidates” and the challenges inherent in the commercialization of new products as described above in “Our product candidates will face significant competition in the marketplace.” LG Life Sciences has the obligation under the agreement to diligently maintain its patents and the patents of third parties to which it has rights that, in each case, relate to gemifloxacin, the active ingredient in FACTIVE tablets. We have the right, at our expense, to control any litigation relating to suits brought by a third party alleging that the manufacture, use or sale of gemifloxacin in its licensed field in the territories covered by the license infringes upon our rights. We also have the primary right to pursue actions for infringement of any patent licensed from LG Life Sciences under the license agreement within the territories covered by the license. If we elect not to pursue any infringement action, LG Life Sciences has the right to pursue it. The costs of any infringement actions are first paid out of any damages recovered. If we are the plaintiff, the remainder of the damages are retained by us, subject to our royalty obligations to LG Life Sciences. If LG Life Sciences is the plaintiff, the remainder of the damages are divided evenly between us and LG Life Sciences, subject to our royalty obligations to LG Life Sciences. The costs of pursuing any such action could substantially diminish our resources. Further, we recently entered into a Sublicensing and Distribution Agreement with Pfizer, S.A. de C.V. (Pfizer Mexico) whereby we sublicensed our rights to commercialize FACTIVE tablets in Mexico to Pfizer Mexico. Under this agreement, we are obligated to exclusively supply all active pharmaceutical ingredient for FACTIVE required by Pfizer Mexico in Mexico. We believe that, together with our manufacturing partners, we will be able to meet such supply and other obligations under the sublicense agreement but can make no assurances to that we will be able to remain in compliance with such responsibilities. Auxilium On April 11, 2005, we entered into an agreement with Auxilium granting us the exclusive right to co-promote TESTIM gel to primary care physicians in the U.S. Under this agreement we are obligated to share TESTIM promotional expenses to this audience equally with Auxilium. The agreement also requires minimum levels of annual physician detailing which, if not met, would allow Auxilium to terminate the agreement. The initial term of the agreement ends on April 30, 2007. We may extend the agreement for two consecutive two-year periods provided that certain milestones related to physician detailing, market share and gross sales have been met by us for each extension period. We believe that we are currently in compliance with our obligations under the Auxilium agreement, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance or that we will be able to meet the milestones required for extension of the agreement. We will depend on key personnel in a highly competitive market for skilled personnel. We will be highly dependent on the principal members of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. The loss of any of our personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our goals. We currently maintain employment agreements with the following senior officers: Steven M. Rauscher, President and Chief Executive Officer; Stephen Cohen, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Dominick Colangelo, Esq., Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Operations. The term of each employment agreement continues until it is terminated by the officer or us. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified sales and marketing, clinical development, scientific and managerial personnel. The launch of the commercial sale of FACTIVE tablets during the second half of 2004 required us to significantly increase our hiring of new employees, primarily with expertise in the areas of sales and marketing. We will continue to increase these efforts in the future. Like others in our industry, we may face, and in the past we have faced from time to time, difficulties in attracting and retaining certain employees with the requisite expertise and qualifications. We 30 Table of Contents believe that our historical recruiting periods and employee turnover rates are similar to those of others in our industry; however, we cannot be certain that we will not encounter greater difficulties in the future. Changes in the expensing of stock-based compensation will result in unfavorable accounting charges and may require us to change our compensation practices. Any change in our compensation practices may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel. We rely heavily on stock options to compensate existing employees and attract new employees. As a result of new accounting rules implemented by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, as of January 1, 2006, we were required to record expense for the fair value of stock options and purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan, thereby increasing our operating expenses and reported losses. Although we intend to continue to include various forms of equity in our compensation plans, if the extent to which we use forms of equity in our plans is reduced due to the negative effects on earnings, it may be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel. Sales of FACTIVE in European countries in which we do not have rights to market the product could adversely affect sales in the European countries in which we have exclusive rights to market the product. Our exclusive rights to market FACTIVE in Europe are limited to France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, Greece, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino and Vatican City. These countries included all of the members of the European Union on the date of the original agreement to license FACTIVE. However, in 2004, a number of additional European countries in which we do not have rights to market FACTIVE were admitted as members of the European Union. If LG Life Sciences were to sell FACTIVE or license a third party to sell FACTIVE in such countries, our ability to maintain our projected profit margins based on sales in the territories covered by the LG Life Sciences license agreement may be adversely affected because customers in our territory may purchase FACTIVE from neighboring countries in the European Union and our ability to prohibit such purchases may be limited under European Union antitrust restrictions. Failure to secure distribution partners or obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing FACTIVE abroad. We recently entered into a Sublicensing and Distribution Agreement with Pfizer, S.A. de C.V. (Pfizer Mexico) whereby we sublicensed our rights to sell FACTIVE tablets in Mexico to Pfizer Mexico. We intend to further market FACTIVE through distribution partners in most, if not all, of the other international markets for which we have a license to market the product. This will include the European Union and Canada. We may not be able to secure distribution partners at all, or those that we do secure, including our relationship with Pfizer Mexico, may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for, marketing and distributing FACTIVE. If we are not able to secure distribution partners or those partners are unsuccessful in their efforts, it would significantly limit the revenues that we expect to obtain from the sales of FACTIVE. Further, in order to market FACTIVE in the European Union, Mexico and other foreign jurisdictions for which we have rights to market the product, we or our distribution partners must obtain separate regulatory approvals. Obtaining foreign approvals may require additional trials and expense. For instance, our predecessor’s original regulatory filing in the UK was rejected. We may not be able to obtain approval or may be delayed in obtaining approval from any or all of the jurisdictions in which we seek approval to market FACTIVE. 31 Table of Contents Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a substantial level of debt. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $178,403,000 indebtedness outstanding (including accrued interest and excluding trade payables and accrued liabilities). The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt outstanding from time to time; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • reduce funds available for use in our operations; • impair our ability to incur additional debt because of financial and other restrictive covenants; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; or • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. If we experience a decline in revenues due to any of the factors described in this report or otherwise, we could have difficulty making required payments on our indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any indebtedness we may incur in the future. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We will rely upon alliance partners from our previous genomics-based research and alliance business as a means of developing and commercializing related products. Our strategy for developing and commercializing therapeutic, vaccine and diagnostic products from our previous genomics-based research and alliance business depends, in part, on strategic alliances and licensing arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners. We currently have alliances with bioMerieux, Schering-Plough and Wyeth. Prior to 2004, we received a majority of our revenue from these alliances. However, our research obligations under our strategic alliances have been fulfilled. As a result, any substantial additional revenues under these alliances will consist of milestone payments based on the achievement by the alliance partner of development milestones or royalties based on the sale of products arising from the alliance. The achievement of any of the development milestones and successful development of any products under these alliances are dependent on the alliance partners’ activities and are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that any milestones will be attained, that any products will be successfully developed by the alliance partners or that we will receive any substantial additional revenues under these alliances. If our partners develop products using our discoveries, we will rely on these partners for product development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing of those products before we can receive some of the milestone payments, royalties and other payments to which we may be entitled under the terms of some of our alliance agreements. Our agreements with our partners typically allow the partners significant discretion in electing whether to pursue any of these activities. We will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources our partners may devote to our programs or potential products. As a result, there can be no assurance that our partners will perform their obligations as expected. 32 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Health care insurers and other payers may not pay for our products or may impose limits on reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize FACTIVE tablets, TESTIM gel, Ramoplanin and our future products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for such products will be available from third-party payers, such as Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations, health insurers and other public and private payers. We cannot assure you that third-party payers will pay for such products or will establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. If adequate coverage and reimbursement levels are not provided by government and private payers for use of our products, our products may fail to achieve market acceptance and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, in December 2003 President Bush signed into law new Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. While we cannot yet predict the impact the new legislation could have on our ability to commercialize FACTIVE tablets, TESTIM gel, Ramoplanin and any future products, the new legislation could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and results of operations, possibly materially. Many health maintenance organizations and other third-party payers use formularies, or lists of drugs for which coverage is provided under a health care benefit plan, to control the costs of prescription drugs. Each payer that maintains a drug formulary makes its own determination as to whether a new drug will be added to the formulary and whether particular drugs in a therapeutic class will have preferred status over other drugs in the same class. This determination often involves an assessment of the clinical appropriateness of the drug and sometimes the cost of the drug in comparison to alternative products. We cannot assure you that FACTIVE tablets, TESTIM gel, Ramoplanin or any of our future products will be added to payers’ formularies, whether our products will have preferred status to alternative therapies, nor whether the formulary decisions will be conducted in a timely manner. We may also decide to enter into discount or formulary fee arrangements with payers, which could result in our receiving lower or discounted prices for our products. Wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals may not provide adequate distribution for our products. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which we obtain adequate distribution of our products via wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals, as well as other customers. Wholesalers and larger retailers may be reluctant to stock and distribute Oscient products since we are not a large, well-established company. If we do not obtain adequate distribution of our products, the commercialization of FACTIVE and TESTIM and our anticipated revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards. The use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, might expose us to product liability claims. We currently maintain, and we expect that we will continue to maintain, product liability insurance coverage in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. Such insurance coverage might not protect us against all of the claims to which we might become subject. We might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity could result, all of which could harm our business. In addition, a product recall or excessive warranty claims (in any such case, whether arising from manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors or other safety or regulatory reasons) could have an adverse effect on our product sales or require a change in the indications for which our products may be used. 33 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE SECURITIES MARKET Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this section of the report, as well as other factors, including: • our ability to successfully commercialize FACTIVE tablets and TESTIM; • the revenues that we may derive from the sale of FACTIVE tablets and TESTIM, as compared to analyst estimates; • the results of our clinical trials for Ramoplanin and additional indications for FACTIVE and the pace of our progress in those clinical trials; • our ability to license or develop other compounds for clinical development; • the timing of the achievement of our development milestones and other payments under our strategic alliance agreements; • termination of, or an adverse development in, our strategic alliances; • conditions and publicity regarding the biopharmaceutical industry generally; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance; • sales of shares of our common stock in the public market; and • comments by securities analysts, or our failure to meet market expectations. Over the two-year period ending December 31, 2005 the closing price of our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market ranged from a high of $7.01 to a low of $1.60. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility have sometimes been the subject of securities class action litigation. If litigation were instituted on this basis, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our securities, regardless of our operating performance. Multiple factors beyond our control may cause fluctuations in our operating results and may cause our business to suffer. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, including the following: • the pace of our commercialization of FACTIVE tablets and TESTIM; • the level of acceptance by physicians and third party payors of FACTIVE and TESTIM; • the progress of our clinical trials for FACTIVE, Ramoplanin and our other product candidates; • our success in concluding deals to acquire additional approved products and product candidates; • the introduction of new products and services by our competitors; • regulatory actions; and • expenses related to, and the results of, litigation and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. We will not be able to control many of these factors. In addition, if our revenues in a particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our 34 Table of Contents business to suffer. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be meaningful. You should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price may fall, possibly by a significant amount. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 