Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a history of significant operating losses and expect losses to continue for some time. We have a history of significant operating losses and expect losses to continue for some time. Although we recorded a one-time, non-cash gain of approximately $30,824,000 in the second quarter related to the convertible debt exchange, we expect to continue to have net losses in the near future and we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $445,758,000 as of December 31, 2007. These losses are primarily a result of costs incurred in research and development, including our clinical trials and product acquisitions, from sales and marketing, and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations and product sales. These costs have exceeded our revenues which to date have been generated principally from sales of ANTARA and FACTIVE, co-promotion revenues based on the sale of TESTIM® gel (which we no longer promote), sublicensing agreements, and our legacy collaborations, government grants and sequencing services. We anticipate that we will incur additional losses in the current year and in future years. These losses are expected to continue, principally due to the expenses in the sales and marketing area, as we seek to grow sales of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets and as we seek to acquire additional approved products or product candidates. Additionally, our partners’ product development efforts that utilize our genomic discoveries are at an early stage and, accordingly, we do not expect our losses to be substantially mitigated by revenues from milestone payments or royalties under those agreements for a number of years, if ever. Our business is very dependent on the commercial success of ANTARA and FACTIVE. ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets are currently our only commercial products and we expect that they will likely account for substantially all of our product revenues for at least the next several years or until we successfully acquire, in-license or enter into co-promotion agreements for additional products. ANTARA is approved by the FDA to treat hypercholesterolemia (high blood cholesterol) and hypertriglyceridemia (high triglycerides) in combination with a healthy diet. FACTIVE tablets have FDA marketing approval for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia of mild to moderate severity, or CAP, and acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, or AECB. The commercial success of ANTARA and FACTIVE will depend upon their continued acceptance by regulators, physicians, patients and other key decision-makers as a safe, therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to other products used, or currently being developed, to treat CAP and AECB, in the case of FACTIVE tablets, or hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia, in the case of ANTARA capsules. In addition, if concerns should arise about the safety or efficacy of our products, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. If ANTARA and FACTIVE are not commercially successful, we will have to find additional sources of funding or curtail or cease operations. If third parties challenge the validity of the patents or proprietary rights of our marketed products or assert that we have infringed their patents or proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and prevent the commercialization of ANTARA, FACTIVE and/or any other products that we acquire. The intellectual property rights of pharmaceutical companies, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our success in developing and commercializing 21 Table of Contents pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others and to prevent others from infringing on our intellectual property rights. There has been substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry. For example, third parties seeking to market generic versions of branded pharmaceutical products often file an Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) with the FDA, wherein such ANDA contains a certification by the applicant that the patents protecting the branded pharmaceutical product are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed, a so-called Paragraph IV certification. As described under, “Our products and product candidates face significant competition in the marketplace,” Teva recently filed such an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification with the FDA seeking the approval of a generic version of Tricor 145 mg. If such a filing is made referencing either ANTARA or FACTIVE, we may need to defend and/or assert our patents, including filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement which would be extremely costly to us. If we were unsuccessful in such a proceeding and the FDA approved a generic version of any one or both of our products, such an outcome would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also become party to patent litigation or proceedings at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a foreign patent office to determine our patent rights with respect to third parties which may include competitors in the pharmaceutical industry. Interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or opposition proceedings in a foreign patent office may be necessary to establish which party was the first to discover such intellectual property. The cost to us of any patent litigation or similar proceeding could be substantial, and it may absorb significant management time. We do not expect to maintain separate insurance to cover intellectual property infringement. Our general liability insurance policy does not cover our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. If infringement litigation against us is resolved unfavorably, we may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling certain of our products or services and be liable for damages. In certain cases, a license may be available, although we may not be able to obtain such a license on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We are aware of United States patents that are controlled by third parties that may be construed to encompass ANTARA. However, we believe that, if these patents were asserted against us, we would have valid defenses that ANTARA does not infringe any valid claims of these patents or that the patents would be found to be unenforceable. Nonetheless, in order to successfully challenge the validity of any United States patent, we would need to overcome the presumption of validity which is accorded to issued patents in the United States. If any of these patents were found to be valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe any of them, or any other patent rights of third parties, we would be required to pay damages, cease the sale of ANTARA or pay additional royalties on manufacture and sales of ANTARA. If we are unable to market or sell ANTARA, or if we are obligated to pay significant damages or additional royalties, our earnings attributable to ANTARA would be reduced and our business would be materially adversely affected. Even if we prevail, the cost to us of any patent litigation would likely be substantial, and it may absorb significant management time. If the other party in any such litigation has substantially greater resources than us, we may be forced, due to cost constraints, to seek to settle any such litigation on terms less favorable to us than we might be able to obtain if we had greater resources. Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a substantial level of debt. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $303.9 million of indebtedness outstanding (including accrued interest and excluding a bond discount of approximately $43.1 million), which includes approximately $41.2 million in revenue interest that entitles Paul Capital to receive a royalty on the sales of both ANTARA and FACTIVE. Approximately $17.2 million of outstanding indebtedness will mature in 2009, approximately $22.0 million of outstanding indebtedness will mature in 2010 or it may be extended at our option to 2012 through issuance of warrants and approximately $223.5 million of indebtedness will mature in 2011. Included in the above is the exchange offer completed on May 1, 2007 relating to the 22 Table of Contents existing convertible debt and a new debt offering of $60 million which generated net proceeds to the Company of approximately $40.4 million. The level and nature of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt outstanding from time to time or to refinance it; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • reduce funds available for use in our operations; • impair our ability to incur additional debt because of financial and other restrictive covenants; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; • restrict the operations of our business as a result of provisions in the Revenue Interests Agreement with Paul Capital that restrict our ability to (i) amend, waive any rights under, or terminate any material license agreements, including the agreements relating to the ANTARA products and FACTIVE, (ii) enter into any new agreement or amend or fail to exercise any of our material rights under existing agreements that would materially adversely affect Paul Capital’s royalty interest, and (iii) sell any material assets related to ANTARA or FACTIVE; or • impair our ability to merge or otherwise effect the sale of the Company due to the right of the holders of certain of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity date of the indebtedness in the event of a change of control of the company. If we do not grow our revenues as we expect, we could have difficulty making required payments on our indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any indebtedness we may incur in the future. Any default under our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need to raise additional funds in the future. We believe our existing funds, including approximately $40.4 million we received as a result of the completion of our convertible debt offering in May 2007, and anticipated cash generated from operations should be sufficient to support our current plans through at least the end of 2008. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our operations and/or other potential commercial or development opportunities, to support our sales and marketing activities, and to fund clinical trials and other research and development activities. We may seek funding through additional public or private equity offerings, debt or other strategic financings or agreements with customers or vendors. Our ability to raise additional capital, however, will be impacted by, among other factors, the investment market for pharmaceutical companies and the progress of the ANTARA and FACTIVE commercial programs, our ability to acquire, in-license or enter into co-promotion agreements for additional products, our progress in finding a development and commercialization partner for Ramoplanin and our progress with other business development transactions. Additional financing may not be available to us when needed, or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. If we cannot obtain adequate financing on acceptable terms when such financing is required, our business will be adversely affected. Future fundraising could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. In order to raise additional funds, we may issue equity or convertible debt securities in the future. Depending upon the market price of our shares at the time of any transaction, we may be required to sell a 23 Table of Contents significant percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock in order to fund our operating plans, potentially requiring a shareholder vote. In addition, we may have to sell securities at a discount to the prevailing market price, resulting in further dilution to our shareholders. We need to continue to develop marketing and sales capabilities to successfully commercialize ANTARA capsules, FACTIVE tablets and our other product candidates. ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets are the first two FDA-approved products which we own and promote. To date, we still have limited marketing and sales experience. The continued development of these marketing and sales capabilities, including any expansion of our sales force, will require significant expenditures, management resources and time. Failure to establish sufficient sales and marketing capabilities in a timely and regulatory compliant manner may adversely affect our ability to assume and continue to grow the ANTARA and FACTIVE brands and related product sales. Our products and product candidates face significant competition in the marketplace. ANTARA ANTARA is a fenofibrate product approved by the FDA to treat hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia in combination with a healthy diet. The marketing of current and additional branded versions of fenofibrate could reduce our net sales of ANTARA and adversely impact our revenues. The primary competition for ANTARA in the fenofibrate market is Tricor 145 mg, a product manufactured by Abbott Laboratories, which accounted for approximately 92% of U.S. fenofibrate sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. Abbott has announced its development and evaluation of another branded fenofibrate-type product, both as mono and combination therapy. In addition to Tricor, there are several other branded fenofibrate products which compete with ANTARA. ANTARA also competes with Triglide, a 160 mg fenofibrate product marketed by Sciele Pharma, Inc., which accounted for approximately 2% of U.S. fenofibrate sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. Additionally, ANTARA competes with Lipofen, a 150 mg fenofibrate product, which was recently launched and is currently being marketed by ProEthic Pharmaceuticals, Inc. LifeCycle Pharma A/S recently announced the FDA approval of their 120 mg branded fenofibrate product, which had been filed with the FDA in late 2006 referencing ANTARA in accordance with the provisions of section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. LifeCycle Pharma granted Sciele Pharmaceuticals rights to market its fenofibrate product in North America, which when launched can also be expected to compete with ANTARA. Additionally, several generic versions of fenofibrate in varying doses are also available for the treatment of dyslipidemias. Revenues from these products accounted for approximately 2% of total U.S. sales of fenofibrate sales in 2007. In May 2005, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. (“Teva”) obtained FDA approval to market a generic version of Abbott Laboratories’ 160 mg Tricor tablet (which is no longer marketed or sold). In addition, Solvay S.A., Abbott Laboratories’ partner announced on January 23, 2008, that Teva had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) with a Paragraph IV certification seeking the approval of a generic version of Tricor 145 mg. If a generic version of Abbott Laboratories’ Tricor 145 mg product is approved by the FDA, the percentage of total revenues attributable to generic fenofibrate products would likely increase. There are also several other FDA-approved products and products in development for similar indications as ANTARA which could compete with ANTARA, including statins, omega-3 fatty acids, niacin, ezetimibe and fixed-dose, combination products. The growth of any of these competitive branded products, the marketing of generic fenofibrate products or the FDA approval and subsequent marketing of products with similar indications including combination therapy products currently in development could result in a decrease in ANTARA sales, pressure on the price at which we are able to sell ANTARA, reduce our profit margins, reduce our net sales of ANTARA and adversely impact our revenues. 24 Table of Contents FACTIVE FACTIVE tablets are approved for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia of mild to moderate severity and acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis. There are several classes of antibiotics that are primary competitors for the treatment of these indications, including other fluoroquinolones (levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin), macrolides (clarithromycin and azithromycin), cephalosporins (cefdinir) and penicillins (amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium). Many generic antibiotics are also currently prescribed to treat these infections. Moreover, a number of the antibiotic products that are competitors of FACTIVE tablets have composition of matter patents which have expired or will expire at dates ranging from 2003 to 2016. As these competitors lose patent protection, their manufacturers will likely decrease their promotional efforts. However, makers of generic drugs will likely begin to produce some of these competing products and this could result in pressure on the price at which we are able to sell FACTIVE tablets and reduce our profit margins. Ramoplanin Ramoplanin is in clinical development for the treatment of Clostridium difficile-associated disease (CDAD). We are aware of two products currently utilized in the marketplace: Vancocin pulvules (vancomycin), a product marketed by ViroPharma Inc., and metronidazole, a generic product, for treatment of this indication. We are also aware of several companies with products in development for the treatment of CDAD as well as the potential for generic vancomycin. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and human resources than us. Furthermore, many of those competitors are more experienced than us in drug discovery, clinical development and commercialization, and in obtaining regulatory approvals. As a result, those competitors may discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products or services before us. In addition, our competitors may discover, develop and commercialize products or services that are more effective than, or otherwise render non-competitive or obsolete, the products or services that we or our collaborators are seeking to develop and commercialize. Moreover, these competitors may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would limit our rights or the ability of our collaborators to develop or commercialize pharmaceutical products or services. Our failure to in-license, co-promote or acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products will impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to acquire, develop and commercialize additional product candidates or approved products. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire products that meet our criteria. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. The acquisition of rights to additional products would likely require us to make significant up-front cash payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity and/or may require us to raise additional capital and/or secure external sources of financing. We may seek funding for product acquisitions through equity or debt offerings, through royalty-based financings or by a combination of these methods, such as the financing we completed with Paul Capital to fund the ANTARA acquisition. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise the funds necessary to complete any product acquisitions on acceptable terms or at all. If we raise funds it could dilute shareholders, or if we use existing resources it could adversely affect our liquidity and accelerate our need to raise additional capital. New product candidates acquired or in-licensed by us may require additional research and development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive preclinical and/or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe, 25 Table of Contents effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, it is uncertain whether any approved products that we develop or acquire will be: • manufactured or produced economically; • successfully commercialized; or • widely accepted in the marketplace. We, as well as our partners, are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may harm our business. Virtually all aspects of our and our partners’ activities are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Mexico and elsewhere. These regulations govern or affect the testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record-keeping, approval, distribution, advertising and promotion of ANTARA, FACTIVE, Ramoplanin and our other product candidates, as well as safe working conditions and the experimental use of animals. We are required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences with our products to the FDA and other similar regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements or failure to obtain adequate documentation from any governmental agency can result in refusal of the government to approve products for marketing, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, “whistleblower” lawsuits, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. These enforcement actions would detract from management’s ability to focus on our daily business and would have an adverse effect on the way we conduct our daily business, which could severely impact future profitability. Our corporate compliance program cannot fully ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such regulations or a failure to prevail in litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. For instance, we, along with many other pharmaceutical companies, received correspondence in 2007 from the FDA stating that it had some concerns over the reliability of studies conducted by MDS Pharma Services between 2000 and 2004. The predecessor owner of the rights to ANTARA, Reliant Pharmaceuticals, had engaged MDS Pharma to perform certain bioequivalence studies for ANTARA, including some studies that were submitted in support of the original approval of ANTARA. The FDA suggested that we take one of the following steps to assess the accuracy of such data: conduct an independent audit of the trials to verify the data, re-assay samples or repeat the studies. The FDA also stated that it has not detected any signals or any evidence that the products mentioned in its correspondence pose a safety risk or that there has been any impact on efficacy. We have responded to the FDA informing the FDA that we do not believe that these steps are necessary because the FDA audited the pivotal MDS Pharma study at issue prior to its approval of ANTARA, and further because there are other non-MDS Pharma data that support the safety and effectiveness of ANTARA. Because the outcome of this issue is uncertain, we cannot predict whether this issue will have a material impact on our results of operations. New legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain expanded or new product approvals, and could limit or make more burdensome our ability to commercialize our approved products. Numerous proposals have been made in recent years to impose new requirements on drug approvals, expand post-approval requirements, and restrict sales and promotional activities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Congress has recently enacted, and the President has signed into law, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (FDAAA). The recently enacted amendments would among other things, require all new drug applicants to submit risk evaluation and minimization plans to monitor and address potential safety issues for products upon approval, grant the FDA the authority to impose risk management measures for marketed products and to mandate labeling changes in certain circumstances, and establish new 26 Table of Contents requirements for disclosing the results of clinical trials. Additional measures have also been enacted to address the perceived shortcomings in the FDA’s handling of drug safety issues, and to limit pharmaceutical company sales and promotional practices. The implementation of the recently enacted amendments or other proposed legal or regulatory changes may make it more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain extended or new product approvals, and our current approvals may be restricted or subject to onerous post-approval requirements. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. The ability of us or our partners to commercialize approved products successfully may be hindered, and our business may be harmed as a result. Failure to comply with or changes to the regulatory requirements that are applicable to ANTARA, FACTIVE or our other product candidates may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; • notice of violation letters regarding promotional and marketing materials and activities; • withdrawal of the product from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recall of the product; • fines against us or our partners; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for ANTARA, FACTIVE or a product candidate which subsequently receives regulatory approval; • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate; • refusal to permit import or export of our products; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we or our partners submit; • denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; • product seizure; and • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us or our partners. If we market or distribute products in a manner that violates federal or state healthcare fraud and abuse, marketing disclosure or drug pedigree laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally or state financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for 27 Table of Contents uses that the FDA has not approved, or off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would also harm our financial condition. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. In recent years, several states and localities, including California, the District of Columbia, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Vermont, and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. We are not aware of any companies against which fines or penalties have been assessed under these special state reporting and disclosure laws to date. Nonetheless, while we have established a compliance program, we may face enforcement, fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity if this program is found not to be in full compliance with these laws. In recent years, some states have passed or have proposed laws and regulations obligating pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors to provide prescription drug pedigrees that are intended to protect the safety of the supply channel. For example, the Florida Prescription Drug Pedigree laws and regulations that became effective in July 2006 imposed obligations upon us to deliver prescription drug pedigrees to various categories of customers. Also, effective January 1, 2009, California will require the implementation of costly track and trace chain of custody technologies. At the federal level, the FDA issued final regulations pursuant to the Pharmaceutical Drug Marketing Act that became effective in December 2006. Compliance with these pedigree laws requires implementation of extensive tracking systems as well as heightened documentation and coordination with distributors and customers. While we fully intend to comply with these laws, there is uncertainty around the interpretation of the recently passed laws, future changes in legislation and government enforcement of these laws. Failure to comply could result in fines or penalties, as well as loss of business that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on third parties to manufacture and distribute our products and product candidates. We do not have the internal capability to manufacture pharmaceutical products. Under our agreement with LG Life Sciences, LG Life Sciences manufactures the API of FACTIVE and is our only source of supply. We use Patheon Inc. (Patheon) to produce the finished FACTIVE tablets and it is currently our only source of FACTIVE tablets. Currently, our only source of supply of bulk capsules of ANTARA is Ethypharm which manufactures the bulk capsules in France and is able to receive ANTARA API from two vendors in Spain and Italy. Further, we have an agreement with Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc. to package finished ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets. If Ethypharm, LG Life Sciences, Patheon or Catalent Pharma Solutions experiences any significant difficulties in their respective manufacturing processes for our products including the API or finished product, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of ANTARA and FACTIVE. Our inability to coordinate the efforts of our third party manufacturing partners, or the lack of capacity available at our third party manufacturing partners, could impair our ability to supply ANTARA and FACTIVE at required levels. Such an 28 Table of Contents interruption could cause us to incur substantial costs and our ability to generate revenue from ANTARA and FACTIVE may be adversely affected. We may not be able to enter into alternative supply arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. Also, if we change the source or location of supply or modify the manufacturing process, regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the product manufactured by the new source or from the modified process is equivalent to the product used in any clinical trials that we had conducted. Due to these regulatory requirements, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of ANTARA and FACTIVE if we decided to transfer the manufacture of our products to one or more suppliers in an effort to deal with such difficulties. As the ANTARA bulk capsules and FACTIVE API are manufactured in France and South Korea, respectively, we must ship our products to the United States for finishing, packaging and labeling, and manufacturing in the case for FACTIVE. While in transit, our API and product, each shipment of which is of significant value, could be lost or damaged. Moreover, at any time after shipment to the United States, our API or finished product could be lost or damaged as our FACTIVE API is stored at Patheon and our ANTARA and FACTIVE finished product is stored at our third party logistics provider, Integrated Commercialization Solutions, Inc. (ICS). Appropriate risk mitigation steps have been taken and insurance is in place. However, depending on when in the process the API or finished product is lost or damaged, we may have limited recourse for recovery against our manufacturers or insurers. As a result, our financial performance could be impacted by any such loss or damage to our API or finished product. We may also experience interruption or significant delay in the supply of ANTARA and FACTIVE due to natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability in France or South Korea. In any such event, the supply of our products stored at Ethypharm or LG Life Sciences could also be impacted. Pursuant to our acquisition of worldwide rights to Ramoplanin from Pfizer (formerly Vicuron), we are responsible for the manufacture of both the active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished dosage form of Ramoplanin. Although we plan to seek a partner for Ramoplanin, a contract manufacturer or the partner would be required to produce both the active pharmaceutical ingredient and the final dosage form to support related manufacturing activities. If there is a significant delay in securing a qualified supplier on commercially favorable terms, we could experience a supply shortage of Ramoplanin bulk drug, possibly affecting our ability to consummate partnering arrangements for the commercialization of Ramoplanin. Moreover, while we may choose to manufacture products in the future, we have no experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products for clinical trials or commercial purposes. If we decide to manufacture products, it would be subject to the regulatory requirements described above. In addition, we would require substantial additional capital and would be subject to delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. We depend on third parties to assist in the management and execution of our product supply chain for ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets. We do not have the internal capability to perform product supply chain services including warehousing, inventory management, storage and distribution of commercial and sample quantities of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets. We have an exclusive arrangement with Integrated Commercialization Solutions, Inc. (ICS) to perform such supply chain services with respect to commercial product through the second quarter of 2010. We cannot be certain that ICS will be able to perform uninterrupted supply chain services. If ICS were unable to perform their services for any period, we may incur substantial loss of sales to wholesalers and other purchasers of our products. If we are forced to find an alternative supply chain service provider for ANTARA and FACTIVE, in addition to loss of sales, we may also incur costs in establishing a new arrangement. 29 Table of Contents Wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals may not maintain adequate distribution for our products. We sell ANTARA and FACTIVE to wholesale drug distributors who generally sell products to retail pharmacies and other institutional customers. We do not promote ANTARA and FACTIVE to these wholesalers, and they do not determine such products prescription demand. However, approximately 89% of our product shipments during the year ended December 31, 2007 were to only three wholesalers. Our ability to commercialize ANTARA and/or FACTIVE will depend, in part, on the extent to which we maintain adequate distribution of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets via wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals, as well as other customers. Although a majority of the larger wholesalers and retailers distribute and stock ANTARA and FACTIVE, they may be reluctant to do so in the future if demand is not established. Further, it is possible that wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. This could result in their refusal to distribute smaller volume products, or cause higher product distribution costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing products. Such alternative methods may not exist or may not be economically viable. If we do not maintain adequate distribution of ANTARA capsules or FACTIVE tablets, the commercialization of ANTARA and/or FACTIVE and our anticipated revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Under our financing arrangement with Paul Capital, upon the occurrence of certain events, Paul Capital may require us to repurchase the right to receive revenues that we assigned to it or may foreclose on certain assets that secure our obligations to Paul Capital. Any exercise by Paul Capital of its right to cause us to repurchase the assigned right or any foreclosure by Paul Capital could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. On August 18, 2006, we and our subsidiary Guardian II Acquisition Corporation, or Guardian II, entered into a revenue interests assignment agreement with Paul Capital pursuant to which we assigned to Paul Capital the right to receive a portion of our net revenues from FACTIVE tablets and Guardian II assigned to Paul Capital the right to receive a portion of its net revenue from ANTARA capsules. To secure its obligations to Paul Capital, Guardian II also granted Paul Capital a security interest in substantially all of its assets, including the U.S. rights to ANTARA. Under our arrangement with Paul Capital, upon the occurrence of certain events, including if we experience a change of control, undergo certain bankruptcy events of us or our subsidiary, transfer any or substantially all of our rights in ANTARA or FACTIVE, transfer all or substantially all of our assets, breach certain of the covenants, representations or warranties under the revenue interests assignment agreement, or sales of ANTARA are suspended due to an injunction or if we elect to suspend sales of ANTARA as a result of a lawsuit filed by certain third parties, Paul Capital may (i) require us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it at the “put/call price” in effect on the date such right is exercised or (ii) foreclose on the ANTARA assets that secure our obligations to Paul Capital. Except in the case of certain bankruptcy events, if Paul Capital exercises its right to cause us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it, Paul Capital may not foreclose unless we fail to pay the put/call price as required. If Paul Capital were to exercise its right to cause us to repurchase the right we assigned to it, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds available to pay the put/call price in effect at that time. Even if we have sufficient funds available, we may have to use funds that we planned to use for other purposes and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If Paul Capital were to foreclose on the ANTARA assets that secure our obligations to Paul Capital, our results of operations and financial condition could also be adversely affected. Paul Capital’s right to cause us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it is triggered by, among other things, a change in control, transfer of any of our interests in ANTARA or transfer of all or substantially all of our assets, the existence of that right could discourage us or a potential acquirer from entering into a business transaction that would result in the occurrence of any of those events. 30 Table of Contents The development and commercialization of our products may be terminated or delayed, and the costs of development and commercialization may increase, if third parties upon whom we rely to support the development and commercialization of our products do not fulfill their obligations. In addition to using third parties to fulfill our manufacturing, distribution and supply chain services, our development and commercialization strategy entails entering into arrangements with corporate collaborators, contract research organizations, licensors, licensees and others to conduct development work, manage our clinical trials and market and sell our products outside of the United States. We do not have the expertise or the resources to conduct such activities on our own and, as a result, we will be particularly dependent on third parties in these areas. For instance, we have entered into exclusive arrangements granting rights to Pfizer, S.A. de C.V, Abbott Laboratories, Ltd. and Menarini International Operation Luxembourg SA to develop and sell FACTIVE in Mexico, Canada and Europe, respectively. However, we have recently amended our agreement with Abbott Canada whereby Abbott Canada’s development and commercial obligations were substantially reduced. We may not be able to maintain our existing arrangements with respect to the commercialization of our existing products, ANTARA and FACTIVE, or establish and maintain arrangements or partnerships to develop and commercialize Ramoplanin or any additional product candidates or products we may acquire on terms that are acceptable to us. Any current or future arrangements for development and commercialization may not be successful. If we are not able to establish or maintain agreements relating to our current products, Ramoplanin, our other product candidates or any additional products we may acquire on terms which we deem favorable, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Third parties may not perform their obligations as expected. The amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to developing and commercializing our products are not within our control. Furthermore, our interests may differ from those of third parties that commercialize our products. Disagreements that may arise with these third parties could delay or lead to the termination of the development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If any third party that supports the development or commercialization of our products breaches or terminates its agreement with us, or fails to conduct its activities in a timely and regulatory compliant manner, such breach, termination or failure could: • delay or otherwise adversely impact the development or commercialization of ANTARA capsules, FACTIVE tablets, Ramoplanin, our other product candidates or any additional product candidates that we may acquire or develop; • require us to undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote unforeseen additional resources to the development or commercialization of our products; or • result in the termination of the development or commercialization of our products. We bear substantial responsibilities under our license agreements for ANTARA and FACTIVE and our sublicense agreements to Pfizer, S.A. de C.V., Abbott Laboratories, Ltd. and Menarini International Operation Luxembourg SA, and there can be no assurance that we will successfully fulfill our responsibilities. ANTARA Our exclusive rights to ANTARA are licensed to us by Ethypharm, S.A. (Ethypharm). If we breach the development, license and supply agreement with Ethypharm, it may be entitled to terminate the agreement. Further, in order to maintain our exclusive rights, we must achieve certain minimum annual sales of ANTARA until February 2012 or make payments to Ethypharm to compensate for the difference. Ethypharm also has a right of first refusal on any divestiture of our rights to ANTARA. 31 Table of Contents We believe that we are currently in compliance with our obligations under the Ethypharm agreement, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance or that we will be able to meet the milestones required for extension of the agreement. During 2007, we recorded approximately $471,000 related to a minimum royalty obligation to Ethypharm. Moreover, Ethypharm’s right of first refusal on a divestiture of our rights to ANTARA may adversely affect our ability to effect a change of control or sale of our assets. FACTIVE We have an exclusive license from LG Life Sciences to develop and market FACTIVE in North America, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, Greece, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino, Vatican City, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Liechtenstein, Malta, Cyprus, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Under this agreement, we are responsible, at our expense and through consultation with LG Life Sciences, for the clinical and commercial development of FACTIVE in the countries covered by the license, including the conduct of clinical trials, the filing of drug approval applications with the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities and the marketing, distribution and sale of FACTIVE in our territory. The agreement with LG Life Sciences also requires that we achieve a minimum gross sales level of $30 million from our licensed territories over a 12-month period of time starting on the third anniversary from the launch of FACTIVE in the U.S. in 2004 which, if not met, LG Life Sciences could elect to terminate the agreement and have the technology be returned to LG Life Sciences. We believe that we are currently in compliance with our obligations under the agreement with LG Life Sciences, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance and meet all of our obligations due to the limitations on our resources and the many risks of conducting clinical trials, as described below in “Clinical trials are costly, time consuming and unpredictable, and we have limited experience conducting and managing necessary preclinical and clinical trials for our product candidates” and the challenges inherent in the commercialization of new products as described above in “Our product candidates will face significant competition in the marketplace.” LG Life Sciences has the obligation under the agreement to diligently maintain its patents and the patents of third parties to which it has rights that, in each case relating to gemifloxacin, the active ingredient in FACTIVE tablets. We have the right, at our expense, to control any litigation relating to suits brought by a third party alleging that the manufacture, use or sale of gemifloxacin in its licensed field in the territories covered by the license infringes upon our rights. We also have the primary right to pursue actions for infringement of any patent licensed from LG Life Sciences under the license agreement within the territories covered by the license. If we elect not to pursue any infringement action, LG Life Sciences has the right to pursue it. The costs of any infringement actions are first paid out of any damages recovered. If we are the plaintiff, the remainder of the damages are retained by us, subject to our royalty obligations to LG Life Sciences. If LG Life Sciences is the plaintiff, the remainder of the damages are divided evenly between us and LG Life Sciences, subject to our royalty obligations to LG Life Sciences. The costs of pursuing any such action could substantially diminish our resources. In February 2006, we entered into a Sublicensing and Distribution Agreement with Pfizer, S.A. de C.V. (Pfizer Mexico) whereby we sublicensed our rights to commercialize FACTIVE tablets in Mexico to Pfizer Mexico. Under this agreement, we are obligated to exclusively supply all active pharmaceutical ingredient for FACTIVE required by Pfizer Mexico in Mexico. In August 2006, we entered into a Supply, Development and Marketing Agreement with Abbott Laboratories, Ltd. (Abbott Canada), the Canadian affiliate of Abbott. Under this agreement, we are obligated to exclusively supply all finished packaged FACTIVE product required by Abbott Canada. In December 2006, we entered into a License, Supply and Marketing Agreement with Menarini International Operation Luxembourg SA (Menarini), whereby we sublicensed our rights to sell FACTIVE tablets in Europe to Menarini. Under the terms of our agreement with Menarini, Menarini is also obligated to exclusively purchase from us, and we must exclusively supply, all API for FACTIVE to be sold in Europe for the earlier to occur of the expiration of the life of certain patents covering the product or expiration of data exclusivity. We believe that, together with our manufacturing partners, we will be able to meet such 32 Table of Contents supply and other obligations under these sublicense and supply agreements but can make no assurances that we will be able to remain in compliance with such responsibilities, which would result in our breach of such agreement. Our intellectual property protection and other protections may be inadequate to protect our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain commercially valuable patent claims and protect our intellectual property. We currently own or license approximately 55 issued U.S. patents, approximately 57 pending U.S. patent applications, approximately 58 issued foreign patents and approximately 111 pending foreign patent applications. We are not currently involved in any litigation, settlement negotiations, or other legal action regarding patent issues and we are not aware of any patent litigation threatened against us. Our patent position involves complex legal and factual questions, and legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in the applicable technology fields are still evolving. Therefore, the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Under our Development, License and Supply Agreement with Ethypharm, S.A., we assumed all of the rights and obligations related to the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of ANTARA in the United States. This license includes one issued U.S. patent and several pending patent applications. In conjunction with the financing of our acquisition of ANTARA, we entered into a Security Agreement with Paul Royalty Fund Holdings II, LP, an affiliate of Paul Capital Partners, or Paul Capital, under which our wholly-owned subsidiary granted Paul Capital a security interest in all of its assets, including all rights to ANTARA intellectual property, in order to secure its performance under the financing agreements with Paul Capital. These patents and applications include claims that relate to pharmaceutical compositions containing fenofibrate using the drug delivery technologies incorporated in ANTARA, methods of their use and treatment, and methods of preparing the same. The patent issued to Ethypharm which is listed in the FDA Orange Book is set to expire in 2020. Under our license agreement with LG Life Sciences, we obtained an exclusive license to develop and market gemifloxacin in certain territories. This license covers 16 issued U.S. patents and a broad portfolio of corresponding foreign patents and pending patent applications. These patents include claims that relate to the chemical composition of FACTIVE, methods of manufacturing and its use for the prophylaxis and treatment of bacterial infections. We have received a Notice of Final Determination from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on our patent term extension application for U.S. Patent No. 5,776,944 extending its patent term 659 days to April 4, 2017. The principal U.S. patents for FACTIVE are currently set to expire at various dates, ranging from 2015 to 2019. On January 8, 2008 the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) issued us U.S. Patent No. 7,317,001 relating to the treatment of C. difficile associated disease (CDAD) using Ramoplanin. We received a patent term adjustment of 565 days thus extending the term through December 20, 2024. In addition to the recently issued patent, we have an additional patent which includes claims relating to methods of manufacturing Ramoplanin. We also have several applications pending relating to additional novel uses of Ramoplanin as well as formulations containing Ramoplanin. The patent covering the chemical composition of Ramoplanin has expired. To provide additional protection for Ramoplanin, we rely on proprietary know-how relating to maximizing yields in the manufacture of Ramoplanin, and intend to rely on the five years of data exclusivity we believe we would receive under the Hatch-Waxman Act in the U.S. and the ten years of market exclusivity in Europe available through the European Medicines Agency (EMEA), because Ramoplanin would be a new chemical entity not previously marketed commercially. We also have the exclusive right to use FACTIVE trademarks, trade names, domain names and logos in conjunction with the use or sale of the product in the territories covered by the license. We acquired exclusive rights to ANTARA trademarks, trade names, domain names and logos. After becoming aware that Antara Biosciences, Inc. filed trademark applications with the USPTO for the ANTARA and ANTARA BIOSCIENCES marks in connection with biotechnology related goods and services we filed a complaint in Federal District Court 33 Table of Contents alleging, among other things, trademark infringement seeking to enjoin ANTARA BIOSCIENCES from using the ANTARA mark. We have reached a settlement with ANTARA BIOSCIENCES whereby they have agreed to abandon their ANTARA trademark applications and cease using the ANTARA marks. Accordingly we have dismissed our complaint before the Federal District Court. The risks and uncertainties that we will face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: • the pending patent applications that we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents, may result in issued patents with narrower claims than anticipated or may take longer than expected to result in issued patents; • the claims of any patents which are issued may be limited from those in the patent applications and may not provide meaningful protection; • we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us or our partners may not provide a competitive advantage; • other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us or our partners; • patents issued to other companies may harm our ability to do business; • the April 30, 2007 U.S. Supreme Court decision in KSR International Co. vs. Teleflex, Inc. may raise the standard for patentability for both patent applications and holders, thus making it more difficult to either obtain patents or withstand challenges to patentability based on a determination of obviousness; • other companies may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies; and • the patents may be narrow in scope and accordingly other companies may design around technologies we have licensed or developed. International patent protection is uncertain. Patent law outside the United States is uncertain and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our or our competitors’ foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. Our proprietary position may depend on our ability to protect our proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. We rely upon certain proprietary confidential information, trademarks, unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We generally protect this information with confidentiality agreements that provide that all confidential information developed or made known to others during the course of the employment, consulting or business relationship shall be kept confidential except in specified circumstances. Agreements with employees provide that all inventions conceived by an individual while employed by us are our exclusive property. We cannot guarantee, however, that these agreements will be honored, that we will have adequate remedies for breach if they are not honored or that our proprietary confidential information and trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. 34 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations in demand for FACTIVE may cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. We expect demand for FACTIVE to be highest between December 1 and March 31 as the incidence of respiratory tract infections, including CAP and AECB, tends to increase during the winter months. In addition, fluctuations in the duration and severity of the annual respiratory tract infection season may cause our product sales to vary from year to year. Due to these seasonal fluctuations in demand, our results in one quarter may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the entire year. Clinical trials are costly, time consuming and unpredictable, and we have limited experience conducting and managing necessary preclinical and clinical trials for product candidates. To obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product or to expand the approved uses of an existing product, we or our partners must demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. To meet these requirements, we or our partners will have to conduct extensive testing, including potentially preclinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. The length of time required to conduct required studies may vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate, and often can be several years or more per trial. Delays associated with products for which clinical trials are required may cause us to incur additional operating expenses. The Phase II trial for our product candidate, Ramoplanin, to assess the safety and efficacy of treating Clostridium difficile-associated disease, or CDAD, was completed in 2004 but did not meet its primary endpoint. Prior clinical and preclinical trials for Ramoplanin were conducted by Vicuron and its licensees, from whom we acquired rights to Ramoplanin. Although we have agreed with the FDA to a Special Protocol Assessment regarding specific components of a Phase III program that, if completed successfully, would support regulatory approval for the indication, we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an NDA review process, if any, the FDA will not determine that a previously approved Special Protocol Assessment for a particular protocol is no longer valid. Additionally, in October 2007, the FDA issued draft guidance on the use of non-inferiority studies to support approval of antibiotics. Under this draft guidance, the FDA recommends that for some antibiotic indications, sponsor companies carefully consider study designs other than non-inferiority, such as placebo-controlled trials demonstrating the superiority of a drug candidate to placebo. While the indications identified by the FDA in the draft guidance are not indications which we are currently pursuing, the draft guidance does not articulate clear standards or policies for demonstrating the safety and efficacy of antibiotics generally. The lack of clear guidance from the FDA creates uncertainties about the standards for the approval of antibiotics could delay or ultimately prevent commercialization of new antibiotic product candidates such as Ramoplanin or additional indications for FACTIVE. If the trials or the filings are delayed or not approved by the FDA, our business may be adversely affected. If we choose to pursue additional indications or expand the label for ANTARA or FACTIVE, or are required to conduct additional clinical trials, we may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of FACTIVE or ANTARA for those indications to the satisfaction of the FDA, or other regulatory authorities. We may also be required to demonstrate that our proposed products represent an improved form of treatment over existing therapies and we may be unable to do so without conducting further clinical studies. Negative, inconclusive or inconsistent clinical trial results could prevent regulatory approval, increase the cost and timing of regulatory approval or require additional studies or a filing for a narrower indication or label expansion. In addition, the cost of human clinical trials varies dramatically based on a number of factors, including the order and timing of clinical indications pursued, the extent of development and financial support from alliance partners, the number of patients required for enrollment, the difficulty of obtaining clinical supplies of the product candidate, and the difficulty in obtaining sufficient patient populations and clinicians. 35 Table of Contents We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory marketing approvals. We may not be able to obtain the approvals necessary to conduct clinical studies. Also, the results of our clinical trials may not be consistent with the results obtained in preclinical studies or the results obtained in later phases of clinical trials may not be consistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal and human testing. Even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the requirement to conduct post-approval clinical studies. We may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining product approval, if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered. We could experience delays in clinical development which could delay anticipated product launches. The speed with which we are able to complete clinical trials for future product candidates, when and if we, or any third party with whom we partner, elects to commence Phase III development of Ramoplanin, and our applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following: • the rate of patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and the nature of the protocol; • fluctuations in the disease incidence for patients available to enroll in our trials; • compliance of patients and investigators with the protocol and applicable regulations; • prior regulatory agency review and approval of our applications and procedures; • analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities which are susceptible to varying interpretations, which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug approval during the period of product development including the FDA’s recent draft guidance released in October 2007 relating to Antibacterial Drug Products: Use of Noninferiority Studies to Support Approval; and • the availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical studies, to accurately collect data and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications. We depend on key personnel, including members of our direct sales force, in a highly competitive market for such skilled personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our senior management and key scientific, sales and technical personnel. The loss of any of our personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our goals. We currently maintain employment agreements with the following executive officers: Steven M. Rauscher, President and Chief Executive Officer; Dominick Colangelo, Esq., Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Operations; and Philippe M. Maitre, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The term of each employment agreement continues until it is terminated by the officer or Oscient. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified sales and marketing, clinical development, scientific and managerial personnel. Like others in our industry, we may face, and in the past we have faced from time to time, difficulties in attracting and retaining certain employees with the requisite expertise and qualifications. We believe that our historical recruiting periods and employee turnover rates are similar to those of others in our industry; however, we cannot be certain that we will not encounter greater difficulties in the future. 36 Table of Contents With routine employee turnover, we also face the risk of being unable to enforce our rights under non-compete and non-solicitation provisions as well as confidentiality obligations that protect the Company. We also need to guard against the same obligations that our employees or our potential employees have with their former employers. Changes in the expensing of stock-based compensation have resulted and will continue to result in unfavorable accounting charges and may require us to change our compensation practices. Any change in our compensation practices may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel. We rely on stock options to compensate existing employees and attract new employees. As a result of new accounting rules implemented by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, as of January 1, 2006, we were required to record the expense for the fair value of stock options granted to employees and the fair value of purchase rights under our employee stock purchase plan, thereby increasing our operating expenses and reported losses. Although we intend to continue to include various forms of equity in our compensation plans, if the extent to which we use forms of equity in our plans is reduced due to the negative effect on earnings, it may be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel. Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing FACTIVE abroad. We have entered into commercialization relationships with Pfizer Mexico, Abbott Canada and Menarini whereby we sublicensed our rights to sell FACTIVE tablets in Mexico to Pfizer Mexico, in Canada to Abbott Canada and in Europe to Menarini. Obtaining foreign approvals may require additional trials and expense. Further, in order to market FACTIVE in Europe, we or our distribution partners may need to obtain multiple regulatory approvals. For instance, our predecessor’s original regulatory filing in the United Kingdom was rejected. We may not be able to obtain approval or may be delayed in obtaining approval from any or all of the jurisdictions in which we seek approval to market FACTIVE. Further, based on the amendment of our agreement with Abbott Canada of January 31, 2008, Abbott Canada is no longer obligated to pursue the CAP and ABS indications in Canada. If our partners are unsuccessful in their efforts to obtain and/or expand their respective marketing approvals, the revenues that we expect to obtain from the sales of FACTIVE could be significantly limited. We rely on operational data obtained from third party vendors which could be inaccurate. We rely on prescription and wholesaler data obtained from industry-accepted, third-party data sources. These third-party data projections may not accurately reflect actual prescriptions or trade levels of inventory. If this data turns out to be inaccurate or unreliable and our controls are not effective, there could be an adverse effect on our ability to properly manage inventory and our financial performance. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Health care insurers, the government and other payers may not pay for our products or may impose limits on reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize ANTARA capsules, FACTIVE tablets, Ramoplanin and our future products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for such products will be available from third-party payers, such as Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations, health insurers and other public and private payers. We cannot assure you that third-party payers will pay for such products or will establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. If adequate coverage and reimbursement levels are not provided by government and private payers for use of our products, our products may fail to achieve market acceptance and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Under the Medicare Part D outpatient prescription drug benefit, Medicare beneficiaries (primarily the elderly over 65 and the disabled) may enroll in private drug plans. There are multiple types of Part 37 Table of Contents D plans and numerous plan sponsors, each with its own formulary and product access requirements. The plans have considerable discretion in establishing formularies and tiered co-pay structures and in placing prior authorization and other restrictions on the utilization of specific products. In addition, Part D plan sponsors are permitted and encouraged to negotiate rebates with manufacturers. The profitability of our products may depend on the extent to which they enjoy preferred status on the formularies of a significant portion of the largest Part D prescription drug plans. Our ability to obtain such preferred status on favorable economic terms cannot be assured. Additionally, the Part D program has been the subject of much controversy since its inception in 2003, and significant amendments, including an amendment to authorize the Federal Government to directly negotiate drug prices with manufacturers, are possible. Such amendments could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and results of operations, possibly materially. Most state Medicaid programs have established preferred drug lists, or PDLs, and the process, criteria and timeframe for obtaining placement on the PDL varies from state to state. Under the Medicaid drug rebate program, a manufacturer must pay a rebate for Medicaid utilization of a product. The rebate is based on the greater of (i) a specified percentage of the product’s average manufacturer price (AMP) or (ii) the difference between the product’s AMP and the best price offered by the manufacturer. In addition, many states have established supplemental rebate programs as a condition for including a drug product on a PDL. The profitability of our products may depend on the extent to which they appear on the PDLs of a significant number of state Medicaid programs and the amount of the rebates that must be paid to such states. In addition, there is significant fiscal pressure on the Medicaid program, and amendments to lower the pharmaceutical costs of the program are possible. Such amendments could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and results of operations, possibly materially. Many health maintenance organizations and other third-party payers use formularies, or lists of drugs for which coverage is provided under a health care benefit plan, to control the costs of prescription drugs. Each payer that maintains a drug formulary makes its own determination as to whether a new drug will be added to the formulary and whether particular drugs in a therapeutic class will have preferred status over other drugs in the same class. This determination often involves an assessment of the clinical appropriateness of the drug and sometimes the cost of the drug in comparison to alternative products. We cannot assure you that ANTARA capsules, FACTIVE tablets, Ramoplanin or any of our future products will be added to payers’ formularies, whether our products will have preferred status to alternative therapies, nor whether the formulary decisions will be conducted in a timely manner. We may also decide to enter into discount or formulary fee arrangements with payers, which could result in our receiving lower or discounted prices for our products. Wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals may not provide adequate distribution for our products. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which we obtain adequate distribution of our products via wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals, as well as other customers. Wholesalers and larger retailers may be reluctant to stock and distribute Oscient products since we are not a large, well-established company. If we do not obtain adequate distribution of our products, the commercialization of ANTARA and FACTIVE and our anticipated revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards. The use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, might expose us to product liability claims. We currently maintain, and we expect that we will continue to maintain, product liability insurance coverage in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence and $10.0 million in the aggregate. Such insurance coverage might not protect us against all of the claims to which we might become subject. We might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from 38 Table of Contents a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity could result, all of which could harm our business. In addition, a product recall or excessive warranty claims (in any such case, whether arising from manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors or other safety or regulatory reasons) could have an adverse effect on our product sales or require a change in the indications for which our products may be used. RISKS RELATED TO THE SECURITIES MARKET Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described herein, as well as other factors, including: • our ability to successfully commercialize ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets; • the revenues that we may derive from the sale of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets , as compared to analyst estimates or to our own guidance; • our ability to enter into transactions to acquire, license or co-promote additional products; • the results of any clinical trials that we may conduct and the pace of our progress in those clinical trials; • the results of clinical trials conducted by partners for Ramoplanin or products developed from any of our legacy alliances and the pace of progress in those clinical trials; • whether we will be able to successfully integrate any additional products that we acquire, license or co-promote into our sales and marketing efforts; • the timing of the achievement of development milestones and other payments under our strategic alliance agreements; • termination of, or an adverse development in, our strategic alliances; • conditions and publicity regarding the pharmaceutical industry generally; • our ability to meet the continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Global Market; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance; • variations in our rates of product returns, allowances and rebates and discounts; • sales of shares of our common stock in the public market; and • comments by securities analysts, or our failure to meet market expectations, including our projected financial performance. Over the two-year period ending December 31, 2007 the closing price of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ Global Market ranged from a high of $22.24 to a low of $1.23. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility have sometimes been the subject of securities class action litigation. If litigation were instituted on this basis, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our securities, regardless of our operating performance. 39 Table of Contents Our common stock is subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market and there can be no assurance that we will complete our plan for compliance or that The NASDAQ will consider our compliance satisfactory, and that we will retain our listing. On August 17, 2007, we were notified by NASDAQ that our common stock was subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market based upon our failure to satisfy the $50 million market value of listed securities requirement for the previous ten consecutive trading days (pursuant to Rule 4450(b)(1)(A) of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules). We were granted a thirty calendar-day period to regain compliance with the requirement. We did not regain compliance, and on September 18, 2007, we were notified by NASDAQ that trading in our securities would be suspended on September 27, 2007, unless we appealed the NASDAQ staff’s determination. We requested a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (NASDAQ Panel) and on November 8, 2007, presented our plan to evidence compliance with the alternative listing standard which requires $50 million in total assets and $50 million in total revenue in either the most recent fiscal year, or two of the three most recent fiscal years, according to Marketplace Rule 4450(b)(1)(B), upon the filing of the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. On November 30, 2007, the NASDAQ Panel granted our request for continued listing of our securities on The NASDAQ Global Market. Our continued listing is subject to the filing of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 on or before February 6, 2008, which evidences over $50 million in revenue and over $50 million in total assets as well as continued compliance with other listing requirements for The NASDAQ Global Market. Even if NASDAQ reinstates us following the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet these requirements for continued listing in the future. In order to fully comply with the terms of the exception granted by the NASDAQ Panel, we must be able to demonstrate compliance with all requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. If we are unable to do so, our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. In the event that we are delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, we may not be able to meet the requirements necessary for the transfer to or listing on another national exchange, including The NASDAQ Capital Market. Multiple factors beyond our control may cause fluctuations in our operating results and may cause our business to suffer. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, including the following: • the pace of our commercialization of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets, and in the case of FACTIVE, seasonal fluctuations in the duration and severity of the annual respiratory tract infection season; • the level of acceptance by physicians and third party payers of ANTARA and FACTIVE; • the progress of any future clinical trials for our products; • the progress of any clinical trials conducted by partners for Ramoplanin or products developed through our legacy alliances; • our success in concluding transactions to acquire additional approved products and product candidates, and the pace of our commercialization of such additional products; • the introduction of new products and services by our competitors; • regulatory actions; and • expenses related to, and the results of, litigation and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. We will not be able to control many of these factors. In addition, if our revenues in a particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our business 40 Table of Contents to suffer. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be meaningful. You should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price may fall, possibly by a significant amount. Item 1 B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 