Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We will need to monitor our expenses and raise additional funds in the near future or refinance our existing debt due in December 2009 to fund our operations, repay our debt and support sales and marketing activities and if sufficient funds are not available or we are unable to refinance our debt, it will have a material affect on our business. Based on the recent extension of the maturity date of approximately $16.7 million of the approximately $17.0 million outstanding principal and accrued interest of our 5% Convertible Promissory Note now due on December 1, 2009, we believe our existing funds, anticipated cash used in operations and our ability to continue to manage expenses after certain cost reduction measures discussed below are in effect will be sufficient to support our current operations and obligations into the third quarter of 2009. In an effort to aggressively preserve the Company’s financial resources and position the organization for a potential partnership or acquisition, on February 11, 2009 we announced plans to substantially reduce the size of our sales and marketing teams as well as our office personnel. Our revenue will likely decline as a result of this decrease. In the next several months, we will need to raise additional capital and/or refinance or amend the terms of our existing debt due in December 2009, to fund our operations for the remainder of 2009, fund other potential commercial or development opportunities and support our sales and marketing activities. We intend to pursue privately raising additional capital from investors through equity financing, the incurrence of indebtedness or a combination of equity and debt. Based on the current credit market turmoil and the inclusion of a going concern explanatory paragraph in the auditor’s report of our consolidated financial statements as discussed below, additional financing may not be available to us, or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. If we cannot obtain adequate financing on acceptable terms when such financing is required or lower our expenses as expected through certain cost reduction measures, we may have to further scale back our operations, take other measures to significantly reduce our expenses which will have a material adverse effect on our business and/or we may seek bankruptcy protection. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our auditors included a going concern explanatory paragraph in their audit opinion. A going concern explanatory paragraph is included when the auditor concludes there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for at least 12 months following the balance sheet date. If we are unable to refinance or repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, we may be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue operations as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. On February 11, 2009, we engaged Broadpoint Capital, Inc. to advise us on strategic options, including the potential sale of the Company. There can be no assurance that this engagement will enable us to identify and implement strategic options, including a potential sale, that will be of benefit to investors. In addition, if we are unable to meet our payment obligations to third parties as they come due, we may be subject to litigation claims and/or may seek bankruptcy protection. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs, be a distraction to management and may result in unfavorable results that could further adversely impact our financial condition and may impact our ability to continue operations. We have a history of significant operating losses and expect losses to continue for some time. We have a history of significant operating losses and expect losses to continue for some time. We expect to continue to have net losses in the near future and we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $511 million as of December 31, 2008. These losses are primarily a result of costs incurred in research and development, including our clinical trials and product acquisitions, from sales and marketing, and from general and 22 Table of Contents administrative costs associated with our operations and product sales. These costs have exceeded our revenues which to date have been generated principally from sales of ANTARA and FACTIVE, sublicensing agreements, and our legacy collaborations, government grants and sequencing services. We anticipate that we will incur additional losses in the current year and in future years. These losses are expected to continue, principally due to the expenses in the sales and marketing area, as we seek to grow sales of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets and as we seek to acquire additional approved products or product candidates. Failure to regain compliance with The NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements may result in our common stock being delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “OSCI”. Currently, we are not compliant with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market. In the event that we do not regain compliance and/or fail to satisfy any of the additional listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. On October 3, 2008, we received a notification from The NASDAQ Listings Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) that, as of October 2, 2008, the Company’s market value of publicly held shares (“MVPHS”) had closed below the minimum $15 million threshold set forth in Marketplace Rule 4450(b)(3) for the previous thirty (30) consecutive business days, a requirement for continued listing. For NASDAQ purposes, MVPHS is the market value of the Company’s publicly held shares, which is calculated by subtracting all shares held by officers, directors or beneficial owners of 10% or more of an issuer’s common stock from the issuer’s total shares outstanding. On October 23, 2008 we received notification from NASDAQ that, given the current extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ has suspended the enforcement of the rules requiring a MVPHS and a minimum $1 closing bid price (“Rule Suspension”). On December 23, 2008 we received a second notification from NASDAQ that the Rule Suspension period had been extended an additional ninety (90) days and that the minimum bid price and MVPHS requirements would be reinstated on April 20, 2009. On March 23, 2009 we received a third notification from NASDAQ that the Rule Suspension period had been extended an additional ninety (90) days and that the minimum bid price and MVPHS requirements will be reinstated on July 20, 2009. As a result of the Rule Suspension, all companies presently in the compliance process will remain at that same stage of the process; however, companies can regain compliance during the Rule Suspension period. NASDAQ will not take any action to delist any security for these concerns during the Rule Suspension period, which will remain in effect through Friday, July 17, 2009. These rules will be reinstated on Monday, July 20, 2009. Under the Rule Suspension, we believe that we will now have until approximately October 6, 2009 to regain compliance by evidencing a minimum $15 million MVPHS for ten (10) consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance with the MVPHS requirement by October 6, 2009, we will receive written notification of delisting from NASDAQ and at that time will be entitled to request a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (“Panel”) to present our plan to regain compliance with the MVPHS requirement. If our efforts to regain compliance are successful and the MVPHS exceeds $15 million for ten (10) consecutive business days before October 6, 2009, we will regain compliance with respect to the MVPHS requirement. In the event we do not regain compliance, we may appeal the staff determination to the Panel. In the event that we fail to regain compliance and are unsuccessful in an appeal to the Panel, our securities will be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. In the event that our securities are delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, we may not be able to meet the requirements necessary for our common stock (i) to transfer to, or list on, a U.S. national securities exchange, including The NASDAQ Capital Market or (ii) be approved for listing on a U.S. system of automated dissemination of quotations. If such event in (i) or (ii) above occurred, holders of our 2011 Notes (as defined below) have the right to require us to repurchase for cash the outstanding principal amount of the 2011 Notes, as applicable, plus accrued and unpaid interest through such date. As of 23 Table of Contents December 31, 2008, there were approximately $86.7 million principal amount of 12.50% Convertible guaranteed senior notes due 2011 (the “12.50% Notes”), approximately $12.7 million principal amount of 3.50% Senior convertible promissory notes due 2011 and approximately $0.8 million principal amount of 3 1/2% Senior convertible promissory notes due 2011 (collectively, the “2011 Notes”). If the 12.50% Notes become due and are accelerated, this could trigger a Put Event under the Paul Capital Revenue Interest Assignment Agreement as amended. We do not have sufficient cash or may not be able raise sufficient additional capital to repay the 2011 Notes and repurchase the RIAA at the Put/Call Price and the amounts outstanding under the Note Purchase Agreement, as applicable, if requested to be repurchased by the holders and Paul Capital. Our business is very dependent on the commercial success of ANTARA and FACTIVE. ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets are currently our only commercial products and we expect that they will likely account for substantially all of our product revenues until we are able to acquire and successfully market additional FDA approved products through acquisitions, in-licensing or co-promotion agreements. ANTARA is approved by the FDA to treat hypercholesterolemia (high blood cholesterol) and hypertriglyceridemia (high triglycerides) in combination with a healthy diet. FACTIVE tablets have FDA marketing approval for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia of mild to moderate severity (“CAP”) and acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (“AECB”). The commercial success of ANTARA and FACTIVE will depend upon their continued acceptance by regulators, physicians, patients and other key decision-makers as a safe, therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to other products used, or currently being developed, to treat CAP and AECB, in the case of FACTIVE tablets, or hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia, in the case of ANTARA capsules. In addition, if concerns should arise about the safety or efficacy of our products, regardless of whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research, such concerns could adversely affect the market for these products. Furthermore, regulatory authorities may withdraw the approval of our products, or require the addition of restrictive safety labeling statements, to our products. On July 7, 2008, we received notice from the FDA directing that the prescribing information for all fluoroquinolone products, including FACTIVE, be revised to include a Boxed Warning relating to the risk of tendonitis and tendon rupture associated with the use of fluoroquinolone product. Warnings regarding the risk of tendon related adverse events were already included in the prescribing information, as part of a class labeling, for all fluoroquinolones. The FDA has cautioned that such risk is increased in patients over the age of 60 and in those on concomitant corticosteroid therapy, as well as kidney, heart and lung transplant recipients. The FDA has also required that all manufacturers of fluoroquinolones submit a Medication Guide. The FDA has approved our changes to the package insert and Medication Guide as required by FDA to ensure patient safety and improve physician understanding of the risk-benefit profile for fluoroquinolone products, including FACTIVE. We have also submitted a proposed Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (“REMS”) as required by FDA of all sponsors of fluoroquinolone products to ensure patients’ safe and effective use of such products. We are working with the FDA to finalize certain details of the REMS. We cannot predict what further action, if any, the FDA may take, including, among others things, further label restrictions in the fluoroquinolone class or even the removal of indications or products from the market. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of our products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing our products, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from their sales. If ANTARA and FACTIVE are not commercially successful, we will have to find additional sources of funding or curtail or cease operations. 24 Table of Contents Lupin Limited’s and Orchid Healthcare’s Paragraph IV certifications under the Hatch-Waxman Act related to ANTARA and FACTIVE respectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in the introduction of a generic products prior to the expiration of the patents covering ANTARA and FACTIVE, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management’s time. On December 2, 2008, we and our licensor, Ethypharm, S.A. (“Ethypharm”), received notice of a Paragraph IV certification from Lupin Limited (“Lupin”), notifying us of the filing of an Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of ANTARA prior to the August 2020 expiration date of U.S. Patent No. 7,101,574 (the “‘574 Patent”). The ‘574 Patent, which is owned by Ethypharm, exclusively licensed to Oscient and listed in the FDA Orange Book for ANTARA relates to pharmaceutical compositions containing fenofibrate and methods of preparing the same. Lupin’s certification notice alleges that the ‘574 Patent”, is invalid and/or will not be infringed by Lupin’s commercial manufacture, use or sale of the drug product described in Lupin’s ANDA. In response to the filing of Lupin’s ANDA, on January 14, 2009, we, along with our wholly owned subsidiary Guardian II Acquisition Corporation and licensor Ethypharm, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland against Lupin and its subsidiary Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., for infringement of the ‘574 Patent. We and our licensor Ethypharm have agreed to equally share the costs incurred during such litigation. In accordance with the Hatch-Waxman Act, as a result of having filed a timely lawsuit against Lupin, FDA approval of Lupin’s ANDA will be stayed until the earlier of thirty months from the date of receipt of the Paragraph IV certification notice, or the date of a District Court decision finding that the ‘574 Patent is either invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the drug product which is the subject of Lupin’s ANDA. If the litigation is still ongoing after thirty months, the termination of the stay could result in the introduction of one or more generic products to ANTARA prior to resolution of the litigation. On May 30, 2008 we received notice of a Paragraph IV certification from Orchid Healthcare, a Division of Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (“Orchid”), notifying us of their filing of an ANDA for a generic version of FACTIVE. The certification alleges that eight of the nine FDA Orange Book listed patents are invalid and/or will not be infringed by Orchid’s manufacture, importation, use, or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. The certification does not, however include a Paragraph IV certification with respect to U.S. Patent No. 5,633,262 which is listed in the Orange Book and expires in June 2015. We are continuing to evaluate whether to commence litigation in response to Orchid’s Paragraph IV certification. Any legal action taken to defend our patent rights relating to ANTARA or FACTIVE will likely be costly, time consuming and distracting to management, could have a material adverse effect on our business, and could result in a finding that either Orchid’s or Lupin’s proposed generic product does not infringe the claims of our patents or that our patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. An adverse outcome in any such legal action could result in one or more generic versions of ANTARA or FACTIVE being launched before the expiration of the patents covering the products. Since ANTARA and FACTIVE are currently our only marketed products, the introduction of a generic version of either ANTARA or FACTIVE could have a material adverse affect on our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, to maximize the value of our products and therefore could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If third parties challenge the validity of the patents or proprietary rights of our marketed products or assert that we have infringed their patents or proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and prevent the commercialization of ANTARA, FACTIVE and/or any other products that we acquire. The intellectual property rights of pharmaceutical companies, including us, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Our success in developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing on the intellectual 25 Table of Contents property rights of others and to prevent others from infringing on our intellectual property rights. There has been substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry. As further discussed under, “Lupin Limited’s and Orchid Healthcare’s Paragraph IV certifications under the Hatch-Waxman Act related to ANTARA and FACTIVE respectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in the introduction of a generic products prior tithe expiration of the patents covering ANTARA and FACTIVE, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management’s time,” Lupin and Orchid are seeking to market generic versions of our products. If additional ANDA filings are made referencing either ANTARA or FACTIVE, we may need to defend and/or assert our patents, including filing lawsuits alleging patent infringement. If we were unsuccessful in such a proceeding and the FDA approved a generic version of any one or both of our products, such an outcome would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also become party to patent litigation or proceedings at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a foreign patent office to determine our patent rights with respect to third parties which may include competitors in the pharmaceutical industry. Interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or opposition proceedings in a foreign patent office may be necessary to establish which party was the first to discover such intellectual property. The cost to us of any patent litigation or similar proceeding could be substantial, and it may absorb significant management time. We do not expect to maintain separate insurance to cover intellectual property infringement. Our general liability insurance policy does not cover our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. If infringement litigation against us is resolved unfavorably, we may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling certain of our products or services and be liable for damages. In certain cases, a license may be available, although we may not be able to obtain such a license on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain such a license to a third party’s intellectual property, the license may be non-exclusive and thereby accessible to our competitors. We may be forced to reformulate, rebrand or rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which, if possible, could be costly and time-consuming. The commercialization of our products or product candidates may be delayed or discontinued as a result of patent infringement claims against us or due to our failure to license necessary intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business. We are aware of United States patents that are controlled by third parties that may be construed to encompass ANTARA. However, we believe that, if these patents were asserted against us, we would have valid defenses that ANTARA does not infringe any valid claims of these patents or that the patents would be found to be unenforceable. Nonetheless, in order to successfully challenge the validity of any United States patent, we would need to overcome the presumption of validity which is accorded to issued patents in the United States. If any of these patents were found to be valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe any of them, or any other patent rights of third parties, we would be required to pay damages, cease the sale of ANTARA or pay additional royalties on manufacture and sales of ANTARA. If we are unable to market or sell ANTARA, or if we are obligated to pay significant damages or additional royalties, our earnings attributable to ANTARA would be reduced and our business would be materially adversely affected. Even if we prevail, the cost to us of any patent litigation would likely be substantial, and it may absorb significant management time. If the other party in any such litigation has substantially greater resources than us, we may be forced, due to cost constraints, to seek to settle any such litigation on terms less favorable to us than we might be able to obtain if we had greater resources. 26 Table of Contents Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have a substantial level of debt. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $207.4 million of indebtedness outstanding (including accrued interest and excluding a bond discount of approximately $1.9 million), which includes approximately $41.1 million in revenue interest that entitles Paul Capital to receive a royalty on the sales of both ANTARA and FACTIVE. Approximately $16.9 million of outstanding indebtedness will mature on December 1, 2009, approximately $23.4 million of outstanding indebtedness will mature in 2010 or may be extended at our option to 2012 through issuance of warrants and approximately $126.0 million of indebtedness will mature in 2011. The level and nature of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt outstanding from time to time or to refinance it; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, product and company acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business including life cycle management; • reduce funds available for use in our operations; • impair our ability to incur additional debt because of financial and other restrictive covenants; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; • restrict the operations of our business as a result of provisions in the Revenue Interests Agreement with Paul Capital that restrict our ability to (i) amend, waive any rights under, or terminate any material license agreements, including the agreements relating to ANTARA and FACTIVE, (ii) enter into any new agreement or amend or fail to exercise any of our material rights under existing agreements that would materially adversely affect Paul Capital’s royalty interest, and (iii) sell any material assets related to ANTARA or FACTIVE; or • impair our ability to merge or otherwise effect the sale of the Company due to the right of the holders of certain of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity date of the indebtedness in the event of a change of control of the Company. We will need to raise additional capital to pay our indebtedness as it comes due. If we are unable to obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any indebtedness we may incur in the future. Any default under our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to refinance or repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, we may be unable to continue operations and/or may seek bankruptcy protection. Future fundraising could adversely affect the value of the conversion right of our convertible securities and dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. In order to raise additional funds, we may issue equity or convertible debt securities in the future. Depending upon the market price of our shares at the time of any transaction, we may be required to sell a significant percentage of the authorized and unissued shares of our common stock in order to fund our operating plans, potentially requiring a shareholder vote, which we may not be able to obtain. In addition, we may have to sell securities at a discount to the prevailing market price, which could adversely affect the value of the conversion right of any outstanding convertible securities and result in further dilution to our shareholders. 27 Table of Contents Our products and product candidates face significant competition in the marketplace. ANTARA ANTARA is a fenofibrate product approved by the FDA to treat hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia in combination with a healthy diet. The marketing of current and additional branded versions of fenofibrate by competitors could reduce our net sales of ANTARA and adversely impact our revenues. The primary competition for ANTARA in the fenofibrate market is TriCor® 145 mg, a product manufactured by Abbott Laboratories, which accounted for approximately 90% of U.S. fenofibrate sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. Additionally, Abbott Laboratories has recently launched a new product, TriLipixTM, which was approved by the FDA in December 2008 and its active ingredient is fenofibric acid, the active metabolite of fenofibrate. In addition to TriCor and TriLipix, there are several other branded fenofibrate products which compete with ANTARA. ANTARA competes with Triglide®, a 160 mg fenofibrate product and Fenoglide®, a 120mg branded fenofibrate product, both of which are marketed by Sciele Pharma, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Shionogi & Co. Ltd. Triglide and Fenoglide accounted for approximately 2% of U.S. fenofibrate sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. Additionally, ANTARA also competes with Lipofen®, a 150 mg fenofibrate product, which is marketed by Kowa Pharmaceuticals America, Inc. As described under “Lupin Limited’s and Orchid Healthcare’s Paragraph IV certifications under the Hatch-Waxman Act related to ANTARA and FACTIVE respectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in the introduction of a generic products prior to the expiration of the patents covering ANTARA and FACTIVE, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management’s time,” we received notice of Paragraph IV certification from Lupin Limited (“Lupin”), notifying us of the filing of an Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) with the FDA for a generic version of ANTARA. Upon final FDA approval of Lupin’s ANDA, the drug product which is the subject of that ANDA would have a material adverse impact on the sales of ANTARA. Additionally, several generic versions of fenofibrate in varying doses are also available for the treatment of dyslipidemias. Revenues from these products accounted for approximately 4% of total U.S. sales of fenofibrate sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. In May 2005, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. (“Teva”) obtained FDA approval to market a generic version of Abbott Laboratories’ 160 mg TriCor tablet (which is no longer marketed or sold) and Par Pharmaceuticals and Impax Labs received FDA approval for similar generic products in October 2007 and March 2008, respectively. In addition, Solvay S.A., Abbott Laboratories’ partner announced on January 23, 2008, that Teva had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) with a Paragraph IV certification seeking the approval of a generic version of TriCor 145 mg. Additionally, Biovail Corporation announced on September 3, 2008 that it also has filed an ANDA seeking approval for a generic version of TriCor 145 mg. If a generic version of Abbott Laboratories’ TriCor 145 mg product is approved by the FDA, the percentage of total revenues attributable to generic fenofibrate products would likely increase and adversely impact the sales of ANTARA. There are also several other FDA-approved products and products in development for similar indications as ANTARA which could compete with ANTARA, including statins, omega-3 fatty acids (including Lovaza® marketed by GlaxoSmithKline), niacin, (including Niaspan® marketed by Abbott), ezetimibe and fixed-dose combination products. The growth of any of these competitive branded products, the approval of Lupin’s ANDA, the marketing of generic fenofibrate products or the FDA approval and subsequent marketing of products with similar indications, including combination therapy products currently in development could result in a decrease in ANTARA sales, place pressure on the price at which we are able to sell ANTARA, reduce our profit margins, reduce our net sales of ANTARA and adversely impact our revenues. 28 Table of Contents FACTIVE FACTIVE tablets are approved for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia of mild to moderate severity and acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis. There are several classes of antibiotics that are primary competitors for the treatment of these indications, including other fluoroquinolones (levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin), macrolides (clarithromycin and azithromycin), cephalosporins (cefdinir) and penicillins (amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium). Many generic antibiotics are also currently prescribed to treat these infections. Moreover, a number of the antibiotic products that are competitors of FACTIVE tablets have composition of matter patents which have expired or will expire at dates ranging from 2003 to 2016. As these competitors lose patent protection, their manufacturers will likely decrease their promotional efforts. However, manufacturers of generic drugs will likely begin to produce some of these competing products and this could result in pressure on the price at which we are able to sell FACTIVE tablets and reduce our profit margins. In addition, as described under “Lupin Limited’s and Orchid Healthcare’s Paragraph IV certifications under the Hatch-Waxman Act related to ANTARA and FACTIVE respectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in the introduction of a generic products prior to the expiration of the patents covering ANTARA and FACTIVE, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management’s time,” Orchid has recently filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a generic version of FACTIVE. The final FDA approval of Orchid’s ANDA, the drug product which is the subject of that ANDA, would have a material adverse impact on the sales of FACTIVE. Ramoplanin We have completed Phase II clinical trials studying the use of Ramoplanin for the treatment of Clostridium difficile-associated disease (“CDAD”). We are aware of two products currently utilized in the marketplace for the treatment of this indication: Vancocin® pulvules (vancomycin), a product marketed by ViroPharma Inc., and metronidazole, a generic product. We are also aware of several companies with products in development for the treatment of CDAD, as well as the potential approval of generic vancomycin. Due to strategic and financial considerations, we have suspended the clinical development of Ramoplanin pending identification of a partner, licensee, or buyer for the product candidate. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and human resources than us. Furthermore, many of those competitors are more experienced than us in drug discovery, clinical development and commercialization, and in obtaining regulatory approvals. As a result, those competitors may discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products or services before us. In addition, our competitors may discover, develop and commercialize products or services that are more effective than, or otherwise render non-competitive or obsolete, the products or services that we or our collaborators are seeking to develop and commercialize. Moreover, these competitors may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would limit our rights or the ability of our collaborators to develop or commercialize pharmaceutical products or services. Our failure to in-license, co-promote or acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products will negatively affect our business. As part of our business strategy, we intend to acquire, develop and commercialize additional product candidates or approved products. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire products that meet our criteria. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. The acquisition of rights to additional products would likely require us to make significant up-front cash payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity and/or may require us to raise additional capital and/or secure external sources of financing. We may seek funding for product acquisitions through equity or debt offerings, through royalty-based financings or by a 29 Table of Contents combination of these methods, such as the financing we completed with Paul Capital to fund the ANTARA acquisition. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise the funds necessary to complete any product acquisitions on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, as announced on February 11, 2009 the reduction in our sales force to conserve capital will negatively impact our ability to acquire new products. If we raise funds it could dilute shareholders, or if we use existing resources it could adversely affect our liquidity and increase the amount of capital which we would need. New product candidates acquired or in-licensed by us may require additional research and development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive preclinical and/or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe, effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, it is uncertain whether any approved products that we develop or acquire will be: • manufactured or produced economically; • successfully commercialized; or • widely accepted in the marketplace. We, as well as our partners, are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may harm our business. Virtually all aspects of our and our partners’ activities are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Mexico and elsewhere. These regulations govern or affect the testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record-keeping, approval, distribution, advertising and promotion of ANTARA, FACTIVE, Ramoplanin and any other product candidates we may acquire, as well as safe working conditions and the experimental use of animals. We are required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences with our products to the FDA and other similar regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. Noncompliance by us or our commercial partners with any applicable regulatory requirements or failure to obtain adequate documentation from any governmental agency can result in refusal of the government to approve products for marketing, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, “whistleblower” lawsuits, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. These enforcement actions would detract from management’s ability to focus on our daily business and would have an adverse effect on the way we conduct our daily business, which could severely impact future profitability. Our corporate compliance program cannot fully ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such regulations by us or our commercial partners could harm our business. For instance, we, along with many other pharmaceutical companies, received correspondence in 2007 from the FDA stating that it had some concerns over the reliability of studies conducted by MDS Pharma Services between 2000 and 2004. The predecessor owner of the rights to ANTARA, Reliant Pharmaceuticals, had engaged MDS Pharma to perform certain bioequivalence studies for ANTARA, including some studies that were submitted in support of the original approval of ANTARA. The FDA suggested that we take one of the following steps to assess the accuracy of such data: conduct an independent audit of the trials to verify the data, re-assay samples or repeat the studies. The FDA also stated that it has not detected any signals or any evidence that the products mentioned in its correspondence pose a safety risk or that there has been any impact on efficacy. On May 30, 2007, we responded to the FDA informing the FDA that we do not believe that these steps are necessary because the FDA audited the pivotal MDS Pharma study at issue prior to its approval of ANTARA, and further because there are other non-MDS Pharma data that support the safety and effectiveness of ANTARA. To date, the FDA has not responded to our response. As a result, the outcome of this issue is uncertain, and we cannot predict whether this issue will have a material impact on our results of operations. 30 Table of Contents New legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain expanded or new product approvals, and could limit or make more burdensome our ability to commercialize our approved products. Numerous proposals have been made in recent years to impose new requirements on drug approvals, expand post-approval requirements, and restrict sales and promotional activities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Congress has recently enacted, and the President has signed into law, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (“FDAAA”). The recently enacted amendments authorize the FDA, among other things, to require submission of REMS with new drug applications, or post-approval upon the discovery of new safety information, to monitor and address potential safety issues for products upon approval. The FDAAA also grants the FDA the authority to mandate labeling changes in certain circumstances and establishes new requirements for registering and disclosing the results of clinical trials. For example, as discussed under “Our business is very dependent on the commercial success of ANTARA and FACTIVE” the FDA has informed us, along with the other sponsors of all marketed fluoroquinolone products of the need to have a Boxed Warning with respect to tendonitis and tendon rupture in certain patients. The FDA has also informed us that, based on new safety information, we (along with other sponsors of marketed fluoroquinolone products) must submit a proposed Medication Guide and a proposed REMS to ensure patients’ safe and effective use of all fluoroquinolones, including FACTIVE. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. Additional measures have also been enacted to address the perceived shortcomings in the FDA’s handling of drug safety issues, and to limit pharmaceutical company sales and promotional practices. The implementation of the recently enacted amendments or other proposed legal or regulatory changes may make it more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain extended or new product approvals, and our current approvals may be restricted or subject to onerous post-approval requirements. Failure to comply with or changes to the regulatory requirements that are applicable to ANTARA, FACTIVE or our other product candidates may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; • notice of violation letters regarding promotional and marketing materials and activities; • withdrawal of the product from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recall of the product; • fines against us or our partners; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for ANTARA, FACTIVE or a product candidate which subsequently receives regulatory approval; • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate; • refusal to permit import or export of our products; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we or our partners submit; • denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; • product seizure; and • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us or our partners. If we market or distribute products in a manner that violates federal or state healthcare fraud and abuse, marketing disclosure or drug pedigree laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, 31 Table of Contents knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally or state financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Numerous pharmaceutical companies have been investigated, prosecuted or entered into settlement agreements in connection with a variety of allegedly impermissible promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; promoting uses that the FDA has not approved (i.e., off-label uses) that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would also harm our financial condition. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. In recent years, several states and localities, including California, the District of Columbia, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Vermont, and West Virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs that comply with the PhRMA Code and OIG Guidelines with respect to interactions with health care providers, and/or file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered by Congress and other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. We are not aware of any companies against which fines or penalties have been assessed under these special state reporting and disclosure laws to date. Nonetheless, while we have established a compliance program, we may face enforcement, fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity if this program is found not to be in full compliance with these laws. In recent years, some states have passed or have proposed laws and regulations obligating pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors to provide prescription drug pedigrees that are intended to protect the safety of the drug supply channel. For example, the Florida Prescription Drug Pedigree laws and regulations that became effective in July 2006 imposed obligations upon us to deliver prescription drug pedigrees to various categories of customers. Also, effective January 1, 2011, California will require the implementation of costly track and trace chain of custody technologies. At the federal level, a bill was recently introduced that would establish national standards for the drug supply chain (H.R. 5839). Overall, compliance with these pedigree laws requires implementation of extensive tracking systems as well as heightened documentation and coordination with distributors and customers. While we fully intend to comply with these laws, there is uncertainty around the interpretation of the recently passed laws, future changes in legislation and government enforcement of these laws. Failure to comply could result in fines or penalties, as well as loss of business that could have a material adverse effect on our business. 32 Table of Contents We depend on third parties to manufacture and distribute our products and product candidates. We do not have the internal capability to manufacture pharmaceutical products. Under our agreement with LG Life Sciences, LG Life Sciences manufactures the active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”) of FACTIVE and is our only source of supply. We use Patheon Inc. (“Patheon”) to produce the finished FACTIVE tablets and it is currently our only source of FACTIVE tablets. Currently, our only source of supply of bulk capsules of ANTARA is Ethypharm which manufactures the bulk capsules in France and is able to receive ANTARA API from two vendors in Spain and Italy. Further, we have an agreement with Catalent Pharma Solutions to package finished ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets. If Ethypharm, LG Life Sciences, Patheon or Catalent Pharma Solutions experience any significant difficulties in their respective manufacturing processes for our products, including the API or finished product, or is found otherwise not to be in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of ANTARA and FACTIVE. Our inability to coordinate the efforts of our third party manufacturing partners, or the lack of capacity available at our third party manufacturing partners, could impair our ability to supply ANTARA and FACTIVE at required levels. Such an interruption could cause us to incur substantial costs and our ability to generate revenue from ANTARA and FACTIVE may be adversely affected. We may not be able to enter into alternative supply arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. Also, if we change the source or location of supply or modify the manufacturing process, regulatory authorities will require us to demonstrate that the new process or source meets applicable legal and regulatory requirements and that the product manufactured by the new source or from the modified process is equivalent to the product used in any clinical trials that we had conducted. Due to these regulatory requirements, we could incur substantial expenses or experience significant interruptions in the supply of ANTARA and FACTIVE if we decided to transfer the manufacture of our products to one or more suppliers in an effort to deal with such difficulties. As the ANTARA bulk capsules and FACTIVE API are manufactured in France and South Korea, respectively, we must ship our products to the United States for finishing, packaging and labeling, and manufacturing in the case for FACTIVE. While in transit, our API and product, each shipment of which is of significant value, could be lost or damaged. Moreover, at any time after shipment to the United States, our API or finished product could be lost or damaged as our FACTIVE API is stored at Patheon and our ANTARA and FACTIVE finished product is stored at our third party logistics provider, Integrated Commercialization Solutions, Inc. (“ICS”). Appropriate risk mitigation steps have been taken and insurance is in place. However, depending on when in the process the API or finished product is lost or damaged, we may have limited recourse for recovery against our manufacturers or insurers. As a result, our financial performance could be impacted by any such loss or damage to our API or finished product. We may also experience interruption or significant delay in the supply of ANTARA and FACTIVE due to natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, shipping embargoes, labor unrest or political instability in France or South Korea. In any such event, the supply of our products stored at Ethypharm or LG Life Sciences could also be impacted. Pursuant to our acquisition of worldwide rights to Ramoplanin from Vicuron, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer Inc., we are responsible for the manufacture of both the active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished dosage form of Ramoplanin. Although we plan to seek a partner for Ramoplanin, a contract manufacturer or the partner would be required to produce both the active pharmaceutical ingredient and the final dosage form to support related manufacturing activities. If there is a significant delay in securing a qualified supplier on commercially favorable terms, we could experience a supply shortage of Ramoplanin bulk drug, possibly affecting our ability to consummate partnering arrangements for the commercialization of Ramoplanin. Moreover, while we may choose to manufacture products in the future, we have no experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products for clinical trials or commercial purposes. If we decide to manufacture 33 Table of Contents products, it would be subject to the regulatory requirements described above. In addition, we would require substantial additional capital and would be subject to delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. We depend on third parties to assist in the management and execution of our product supply chain for ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets. We do not have the internal capability to perform product supply chain services including warehousing, inventory management, storage and distribution of commercial and sample quantities of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets. We have an exclusive arrangement with Integrated Commercialization Solutions, Inc. (“ICS”) to perform such supply chain services with respect to commercial product through the second quarter of 2010. We cannot be certain that ICS will be able to perform uninterrupted supply chain services. If ICS were unable to perform their services for any period, we may incur substantial loss of sales to wholesalers and other purchasers of our products. If we are forced to find an alternative supply chain service provider for ANTARA and FACTIVE, in addition to loss of sales, we may also incur costs in establishing a new arrangement. Wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals may not maintain adequate inventory for the distribution for our products. We sell ANTARA and FACTIVE to wholesale drug distributors who generally sell products to retail pharmacies and other institutional customers. We do not promote ANTARA and FACTIVE to these wholesalers, and they do not determine such products prescription demand. However, approximately 92% of our product shipments during the year ended December 31, 2008 was to only three wholesalers. Our ability to commercialize ANTARA and/or FACTIVE will depend, in part, on the extent to which we maintain adequate distribution of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets via wholesalers, pharmacies and hospitals, as well as other customers. Although a majority of the larger wholesalers and retailers distribute and stock ANTARA and FACTIVE, they may be reluctant to do so in the future if demand is not established. Further, it is possible that wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. This could result in their refusal to distribute smaller volume products, or cause higher product distribution costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing products. Such alternative methods may not exist or may not be economically viable. If we do not maintain adequate distribution of ANTARA capsules or FACTIVE tablets, the commercialization of ANTARA and/or FACTIVE and our anticipated revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Under our financing arrangement with Paul Capital, upon the occurrence of certain events, Paul Capital may require us to repurchase the right to receive revenues that we assigned to it, repay the outstanding principal and interest on the note or may foreclose on certain assets that secure our obligations to Paul Capital. Any exercise by Paul Capital of its right to cause us to repurchase the assigned right, repay the note or any foreclosure by Paul Capital would adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. On August 18, 2006, we and our subsidiary Guardian II Acquisition Corporation (“Guardian II”), entered into a revenue interests assignment agreement with Paul Royalty Fund Holdings II, LP (“Paul Capital”), an affiliate of Paul Capital Partners pursuant to which we assigned to Paul Capital the right to receive a portion of our net revenues from FACTIVE tablets and Guardian II assigned to Paul Capital the right to receive a portion of its net revenue from ANTARA capsules. To secure its obligations to Paul Capital, Guardian II also granted Paul Capital a security interest in substantially all of its assets, including the U.S. rights to ANTARA. Under our arrangement with Paul Capital, upon the occurrence of certain events (the “Put Events”), including if we experience a change of control, undergo certain bankruptcy events of us or our subsidiary, transfer any or substantially all of our rights in ANTARA or FACTIVE, transfer all or substantially all of our 34 Table of Contents assets, breach certain of the covenants, representations or warranties under the Revenue Interests Assignment Agreement, or sales of ANTARA are suspended due to an injunction or if we elect to suspend sales of ANTARA as a result of a lawsuit filed by certain third parties, Paul Capital may (i) require us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it at the price in cash which equals the greater of (a) 200% of cumulative payments made by Paul Capital under the Revenue Interests Assignment Agreement less the cumulative royalties previously paid to Paul Capital; or (b) the amount which will provide Paul Capital, when taken together with the royalties previously paid, a 22% internal rate of return (the “Put/Call Price”) in effect on the date such right is exercised or (ii) foreclose on the ANTARA assets that secure our obligations to Paul Capital. Except in the case of certain bankruptcy events, if Paul Capital exercises its right to cause us to repurchase the rights we assigned to it, Paul Capital may not foreclose unless we fail to pay the Put/Call Price as required. In the event of a Put Event, the outstanding principal and interest in the $20 million note will become immediately due and payable to Paul Capital. On November 5, 2008 we entered into a first amendment to the Revenue Interests Assignment Agreement. The amendment provides, among other things, that Paul Capital consented to the grant by Guardian II of a second-ranking security interest in and to the assets of Guardian II to secure Guardian II’s guarantee of the 12.50% Notes that were issued in our November 2008 exchange. The amendment provides that any acceleration or failure to pay the 12.50% Notes would be considered a Put Event whereby Paul Capital could have the right to demand that we repurchase the Revenue Interest Assignment at the Put/Call Price and the amounts outstanding under the Note Purchase Agreement would immediately become due and payable. If Paul Capital were to exercise its right to cause us to repurchase the right we assigned to it, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient funds available to pay the Put/Call Price in effect at that time. Even if we have sufficient funds available, we may have to use funds that we planned to use for other purposes and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If Paul Capital were to foreclose on the ANTARA assets that secure our obligations to Paul Capital, our results of operations and financial condition could also be adversely affected. The existence of Paul Capital’s rights that it may exercise upon a Put Event could discourage us or a potential acquirer from entering into a business transaction that would result in the occurrence of any of those events. The development and commercialization of our products may be terminated or delayed, and the costs of development and commercialization may increase, if third parties upon whom we rely to support the development and commercialization of our products do not fulfill their obligations. In addition to using third parties to fulfill our manufacturing, distribution and supply chain services, our development and commercialization strategy entails entering into arrangements with corporate collaborators, contract research organizations, licensors, licensees and others to conduct development work, manage our clinical trials and market and sell our products outside of the United States. We do not have the expertise or the resources to conduct such activities on our own and, as a result, we are particularly dependent on third parties in these areas. For instance, we have entered into exclusive arrangements granting rights to Pfizer, S.A. de C.V and Menarini International Operation Luxembourg S.A. to develop and sell FACTIVE in Mexico and Europe, respectively. We had previously entered into an exclusive arrangement granting rights to Abbott Laboratories, Ltd. (“Abbott Canada”) to develop and sell FACTIVE in Canada, however our agreement with Abbott Canada was terminated in December 2008, and Abbott Canada ceased all development and commercialization of FACTIVE in Canada. FACTIVE sales in Canada accounted for approximately 4% of all FACTIVE revenues recorded by the Company in the two years ended December 31, 2008. We may not be able to maintain our existing arrangements with respect to the commercialization of our existing products, ANTARA and FACTIVE, or establish and maintain arrangements or partnerships to develop and commercialize Ramoplanin or any additional product candidates or products we may acquire on terms that are acceptable to us. Any current or future arrangements for development and commercialization may not be successful. If we are not able to establish or maintain agreements relating to our current products, Ramoplanin, 35 Table of Contents our other product candidates or any additional products we may acquire on terms which we deem favorable, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Third parties may not perform their obligations as expected. The amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to developing and commercializing our products are not within our control. Furthermore, our interests may differ from those of third parties that commercialize our products. Disagreements that may arise with these third parties could delay or lead to the termination of the development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If any third party that supports the development or commercialization of our products breaches or terminates its agreement with us, or fails to conduct its activities in a timely and regulatory compliant manner, such breach, termination or failure could: • delay or otherwise adversely impact the development or commercialization of ANTARA capsules, FACTIVE tablets, Ramoplanin, our other product candidates or any additional product candidates that we may acquire or develop; • require us to undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote unforeseen additional resources to the development or commercialization of our products; or • result in the termination of the development or commercialization of our products. We bear substantial responsibilities under our license agreements for ANTARA and FACTIVE and our sublicense agreements to Pfizer, S.A. de C.V., Abbott Laboratories, Ltd. and Menarini International Operation Luxembourg S.A., and there can be no assurance that we will successfully fulfill our responsibilities. ANTARA Our exclusive rights to ANTARA are licensed to us by Ethypharm, S.A. (“Ethypharm”). If we breach the obligations in any of our license agreements relating to ANTARA including the development, license and supply agreement with Ethypharm, the licensor may be entitled to terminate the agreement. Further, in order to maintain our exclusive rights, we must achieve certain minimum annual sales of ANTARA until February 2012 or make payments to Ethypharm to compensate for the difference. On or about February 27, 2009, we received notice from Ethypharm that we had not achieved the minimum sales threshold, and accordingly within 60 days of receipt of such notice, on or approximately April 28, 2009, we may elect to maintain the exclusivity of the license by compensating Ethypharm for any shortfall, or to convert the exclusive license to a non-exclusive license. As of December 31, 2008, we have recorded approximately $621,000 related to the potential minimum royalty obligation owed to Ethypharm and which would be payable in the event we elect to maintain the exclusivity of the license. Ethypharm also has a right of first refusal on any divestiture of our rights to ANTARA, which may adversely affect our ability to effect a change of control or sale of our assets. In accordance with the terms of our asset purchase agreement with Reliant we assumed a third party license relating to ANTARA not including the Ethypharm license. Under the license we are obligated to make certain royalty payments based on sales of ANTARA, which royalty payments are subject to a low single digit increase in the event of a change in control of the Company. The third party license also limits our ability to co-promote ANTARA with companies other than contract sales organizations or similar companies. We have engaged the third party licensor to renegotiate the terms of that license and have suspended further royalty payments while the terms of such license are being renegotiated. This decision could lead to litigation and have a material impact on our operations and sales of ANTARA. 36 Table of Contents FACTIVE We have an exclusive license from LG Life Sciences to develop and market FACTIVE in North America, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, Greece, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino, Vatican City, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Liechtenstein, Malta, Cyprus, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Under this agreement, we are responsible, at our expense and through consultation with LG Life Sciences, for the clinical and commercial development of FACTIVE in the countries covered by the license, including the conduct of clinical trials, the filing of drug approval applications with the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities and the marketing, distribution and sale of FACTIVE in our territory. The agreement with LG Life Sciences also required that we achieve a minimum gross sales level of $30 million from our licensed territories over a 12-month period of time starting in approximately the third quarter of 2007 to the third quarter of 2008 which, if not met, LG Life Sciences could elect to terminate the agreement and have the technology be returned to LG Life Sciences. After LG Life Sciences’ review of our financial information it has accepted our analysis and concluded that it will not terminate the agreement based on the minimum gross sales level of $30 million. We believe that we are currently in compliance with our obligations under the agreement with LG Life Sciences, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance and meet all of our obligations due to the limitations on our resources and the challenges inherent in the commercialization of new products as described above in “Our product and product candidates face significant competition in the marketplace.” LG Life Sciences has the obligation under the agreement to diligently maintain its patents and the patents of third parties to which it has rights that, in each case relating to gemifloxacin, the active ingredient in FACTIVE tablets. We have the right, at our expense, to control any litigation relating to suits brought by a third party alleging that the manufacture, use or sale of gemifloxacin in its licensed field in the territories covered by the license infringes upon our rights. We also have the primary right to pursue actions for infringement of any patent licensed from LG Life Sciences under the license agreement within the territories covered by the license. If we elect not to pursue any infringement action, LG Life Sciences has the right to pursue it. The costs of any infringement actions are first paid out of any damages recovered. If we are the plaintiff, the remainder of the damages are retained by us, subject to our royalty obligations to LG Life Sciences. If LG Life Sciences is the plaintiff, the remainder of the damages are divided evenly between us and LG Life Sciences, subject to our royalty obligations to LG Life Sciences. The costs of pursuing any such action could substantially diminish our resources. To date, we have no pending litigation relating to FACTIVE. In February 2006, we entered into a Sublicensing and Distribution Agreement with Pfizer, S.A. de C.V. (“Pfizer Mexico”) whereby we sublicensed our rights to commercialize FACTIVE tablets in Mexico to Pfizer Mexico. Under this agreement, we are obligated to exclusively supply all active pharmaceutical ingredient for FACTIVE required by Pfizer Mexico in Mexico. The agreement with Pfizer Mexico may be terminated by either party upon the occurrence of certain termination events, including Pfizer Mexico’s right to terminate at any time after August 2007, the first anniversary of launch of FACTIVE tablets in Mexico upon six-months prior written notice. In August 2006, we entered into a Supply, Development and Marketing Agreement with Abbott Laboratories, Ltd. (“Abbott Canada”), the Canadian affiliate of Abbott. Under this agreement, we were obligated to exclusively supply all finished packaged FACTIVE product required by Abbott Canada. The agreement also provided that we could terminate the agreement at any time with prior notice to Abbott Canada and Abbott Canada could terminate with prior notice to us after November 30, 2008. On December 18, 2008 the agreement with Abbott Canada was terminated. In December 2006, we entered into a License, Supply and Marketing Agreement with Menarini International Operation Luxembourg S.A. (“Menarini”), whereby we sublicensed our rights to sell FACTIVE tablets in Europe to Menarini. Under the terms of our agreement with Menarini, Menarini is also obligated to exclusively purchase from us, and we must exclusively supply, all API for FACTIVE to be sold in Europe for the 37 Table of Contents earlier to occur of the expiration of the life of certain patents covering the product or expiration of data exclusivity. We believe that, together with our manufacturing partners, we will be able to meet such supply and other obligations under these sublicense and supply agreements but can make no assurances that we will be able to remain in compliance with such responsibilities, which would result in our breach of such agreement. Our agreement with Menarini may be terminated by either party upon the occurrence of certain termination events, including Menarini’s right to terminate if the European regulatory authorities do not recommend approval of FACTIVE at various stages of the approval process with a package insert, or label, that meets certain requirements as to the safety, dosing and indications for which FACTIVE may be prescribed. In recent years, the FDA has made the approval process for new antibiotics more challenging, sometimes requesting placebo-controlled or superiority design clinical studies for certain indications. It is possible that the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”) could adopt a similar position regarding the approval of FACTIVE for certain indications, and as a result Menarini may not be able to secure regulatory approval of FACTIVE in Europe and accordingly could elect to terminate the agreement. Menarini may also terminate the agreement if it does not receive approval for reimbursement from European Union member countries that is above a certain minimum price per tablet. Our intellectual property protection and other protections may be inadequate to protect our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain commercially valuable patent claims and protect our intellectual property. The degree of protection afforded by a patent varies on a country-by-country and a product-by-product basis and depends upon many factors, including the scope of the patent’s claims, the availability of regulatory-related patent term extensions, the validity and enforceability of the patent and the availability of legal remedies in a particular country. We currently own or license approximately 64 issued U.S. patents, approximately 36 pending U.S. patent applications, approximately 60 issued foreign patents and approximately 109 pending foreign patent applications. We are not currently involved in any litigation, settlement negotiations, or other legal action regarding patent issues and we are not aware of any patent litigation threatened against us. Our patent position involves complex legal and factual questions, and legal standards relating to the issuance, scope, validity and enforceability of claims in the applicable technology fields are still evolving. Therefore, the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Under our Development, License and Supply Agreement with Ethypharm, S.A. (“Ethypharm”), we assumed all of the rights and obligations related to the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of ANTARA in the United States. This license includes one issued U.S. patent and several pending patent applications. In conjunction with the financing of our acquisition of ANTARA, we entered into a Security Agreement with Paul Royalty Fund Holdings II, LP (“Paul Capital”), an affiliate of Paul Capital Partners, under which our wholly-owned subsidiary granted Paul Capital a security interest in substantially all of its assets, including all rights to the ANTARA intellectual property, in order to secure its performance under the financing agreements with Paul Capital. In connection with the issuance of the 2011 notes, Guardian II and the collateral agent for the 2011 note holders entered into a Security Agreement under which Guardian II granted the collateral agent a second priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of Guardian II to secure Guardian’s guarantee of our obligations with respect to the 2011 notes. The patents and applications include claims that relate to pharmaceutical compositions containing fenofibrate using the drug delivery technologies incorporated in ANTARA, methods of their use and treatment, and methods of preparing the same. The patent issued to Ethypharm which is listed in the FDA Orange Book is set to expire in 2020. As discussed under, “Lupin Limited’s and Orchid Healthcare’s Paragraph IV certifications under the Hatch-Waxman Act related to ANTARA and FACTIVE respectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in the introduction of a generic products prior to the expiration of the patents covering ANTARA and FACTIVE, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management’s time,” we received notice of a Paragraph IV certification from Lupin Limited (“Lupin”), notifying us of the filing of an ANDA with the FDA for a generic version of ANTARA and in response to the filing of Lupin’s ANDA, on January 14, 2009, we, along with our wholly owned subsidiary Guardian II Acquisition Corporation and licensor Ethypharm, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland against Lupin and its subsidiary Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 38 Table of Contents Under our license agreement with LG Life Sciences, we obtained an exclusive license to develop and market gemifloxacin in certain territories. This license covers 18 issued U.S. patents and a broad portfolio of corresponding foreign patents and pending patent applications. These patents include claims that relate to the chemical composition of FACTIVE, methods of manufacturing and its use for the prophylaxis and treatment of bacterial infections. We have received a Notice of Final Determination from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on our patent term extension application for U.S. Patent No. 5,776,944 extending its patent term 659 days to April 4, 2017. The principal U.S. patents for FACTIVE are currently set to expire at various dates, ranging from 2015 to 2019. As discussed under, “Lupin Limited’s and Orchid Healthcare’s Paragraph IV certifications under the Hatch-Waxman Act related to ANTARA and FACTIVE respectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in the introduction of a generic products prior to the expiration of the patents covering ANTARA and FACTIVE, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management’s time,” we received notice of a Paragraph IV certification from Orchid Healthcare, a Division of Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (“Orchid”), notifying us of their filing of an ANDA for a generic version of FACTIVE. On January 8, 2008 the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) issued us U.S. Patent No. 7,317,001 relating to the treatment of Clostridium difficile associated disease (“CDAD”) using Ramoplanin. We received a patent term adjustment of 565 days thus extending the term through December 20, 2024. In addition to the recently issued patent, we have an additional patent which includes claims relating to methods of manufacturing Ramoplanin. We also have several applications pending relating to additional novel uses of Ramoplanin as well as formulations containing Ramoplanin. The patent covering the chemical composition of Ramoplanin has expired. To provide additional protection for Ramoplanin, we rely on proprietary know-how relating to maximizing yields in the manufacture of Ramoplanin, and intend to rely on the five years of data exclusivity we believe we would receive under the Hatch-Waxman Act in the U.S. and the ten years of market exclusivity in Europe available through the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”), because Ramoplanin would be a new chemical entity not previously marketed commercially. We also have the exclusive right to use FACTIVE trademarks, trade names, domain names and logos in conjunction with the use or sale of the product in the territories covered by the license. We acquired exclusive rights to ANTARA trademarks, trade names, domain names and logos. After becoming aware that Antara Biosciences, Inc. filed trademark applications with the USPTO for the ANTARA and ANTARA BIOSCIENCES marks in connection with biotechnology related goods and services we filed a complaint in Federal District Court alleging, among other things, trademark infringement seeking to enjoin ANTARA BIOSCIENCES from using the ANTARA mark. We have reached a settlement with ANTARA BIOSCIENCES whereby they have agreed to abandon their ANTARA trademark applications and cease using the ANTARA marks. Accordingly we have dismissed our complaint before the Federal District Court. The risks and uncertainties that we will face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: • the pending patent applications that we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents, may result in issued patents with narrower claims than anticipated or may take longer than expected to result in issued patents; • the claims of any patents which are issued may be limited from those in the patent applications and may not provide meaningful protection; • U.S. Patents may be subject to reexamination or reissue proceedings before the USPTO, and foreign patents may be subject to comparable proceedings in corresponding patent offices; • we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us or our partners may not provide a competitive advantage; • other companies, such as Lupin or Orchid may challenge patents licensed or issued to us or our partners; 39 Table of Contents • patents issued to other companies may harm our ability to do business; • the April 30, 2007 U.S. Supreme Court decision in KSR International Co. vs. Teleflex, Inc. may raise the standard for patentability for both patent applications and holders, thus making it more difficult to either obtain patents or withstand challenges to patentability based on a determination of obviousness; • other companies may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies; and • the patents may be narrow in scope and accordingly other companies may design around technologies we have licensed or developed. International patent protection is uncertain. Patent law outside the United States is uncertain and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. Further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. We may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our or our competitors’ foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. Our proprietary position may depend on our ability to protect our proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. We rely upon certain proprietary confidential information, trademarks, unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We generally protect this information with confidentiality agreements that provide that all confidential information developed or made known to others during the course of the employment, consulting or business relationship shall be kept confidential except in specified circumstances. Agreements with employees provide that all inventions conceived by an individual while employed by us are our exclusive property. We cannot guarantee, however, that these agreements will be honored, that we will have adequate remedies for breach if they are not honored or that our proprietary confidential information and trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Seasonal fluctuations in demand for FACTIVE, and even possibly ANTARA may cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. We expect demand for FACTIVE to be highest between December 1 and March 31 as the incidence of respiratory tract infections, including CAP and AECB, tends to increase during the winter months. In addition, fluctuations in the duration and severity of the annual respiratory tract infection season may cause our product sales to vary from year to year. Due to these seasonal fluctuations in demand, our results in one quarter may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the entire year. Although not related to seasonal weather changes, wholesaler buying patterns may fluctuate for ANTARA during the year and possibly increase toward year end and decrease early in the year. There can be no assurance that the demand for our products or the wholesaler buying pattern will not change. Clinical trials are costly, time consuming and unpredictable, and we have limited experience conducting and managing necessary preclinical and clinical trials for product candidates. To obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product or to expand the approved uses of an existing product, we or our partners must demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. To meet these requirements, we or our partners will have to conduct extensive testing, including potentially preclinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. The length of time required to conduct required studies may vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate, and often can be several years or more per trial. Delays associated with products for which clinical trials are required may cause us to incur additional operating expenses. 40 Table of Contents The Phase II trial for our product candidate, Ramoplanin, to assess the safety and efficacy of treating Clostridium difficile-associated disease (“CDAD”), was completed in 2004 but did not meet its primary endpoint. Prior clinical and preclinical trials for Ramoplanin were conducted by Vicuron and its licensees, from whom we acquired rights to Ramoplanin. In December 2005 we agreed with the FDA to a Special Protocol Assessment regarding specific components of a Phase III program that, if completed successfully, would support regulatory approval for the indication. However, due to the nature of Special Protocol Assessments and the fact that our Special Protocol Assessment was agreed to by the FDA in 2005, we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an NDA review process, if any, the FDA will not determine that a previously approved Special Protocol Assessment for a particular protocol is no longer valid. Additionally, in October 2007, the FDA issued draft guidance on the use of non-inferiority studies to support approval of antibiotics. Under this draft guidance, the FDA recommends that for some antibiotic indications, sponsor companies carefully consider study designs other than non-inferiority, such as placebo-controlled trials demonstrating the superiority of a drug candidate to placebo. While the indications identified by the FDA in the draft guidance are not indications which we are currently pursuing, the draft guidance does not articulate clear standards or policies for demonstrating the safety and efficacy of antibiotics generally. The lack of clear guidance from the FDA creates uncertainties about the standards for the approval of antibiotics and could delay or ultimately prevent commercialization of new antibiotic product candidates such as Ramoplanin or additional indications for FACTIVE. If the trials or the filings are delayed or not approved by the FDA, our business may be adversely affected. Currently, we have suspended the clinical development program for Ramoplanin pending identification of a partner, licensee, or buyer for the product. If we choose to pursue additional indications or expand the label for ANTARA or FACTIVE, or are required to conduct additional clinical trials, we may not be able to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of FACTIVE or ANTARA for those indications to the satisfaction of the FDA, or other regulatory authorities. We may also be required to demonstrate that our proposed products represent an improved form of treatment over existing therapies and we may be unable to do so without conducting further clinical studies. Negative, inconclusive or inconsistent clinical trial results could prevent regulatory approval, increase the cost and timing of regulatory approval or require additional studies or a filing for a narrower indication or label expansion. In addition, the cost of human clinical trials varies dramatically based on a number of factors, including the order and timing of clinical indications pursued, the extent of development and financial support from alliance partners, the number of patients required for enrollment, the difficulty of obtaining clinical supplies of the product candidate, and the difficulty in obtaining sufficient patient populations and clinicians. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the preclinical and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory marketing approvals. We may not be able to obtain the approvals necessary to conduct clinical studies. Also, the results of our clinical trials may not be consistent with the results obtained in preclinical studies or the results obtained in later phases of clinical trials may not be consistent with those obtained in earlier phases. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in early animal and human testing. Even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the requirement to conduct post-approval clinical studies, post-approval adverse event reporting requirements and potentially a REMS. We may be restricted or prohibited from marketing or manufacturing a product, even after obtaining product approval, if previously unknown problems with the product or its manufacture are subsequently discovered. 41 Table of Contents We could experience delays in clinical development which could delay anticipated product launches. The speed with which we are able to complete clinical trials for future product candidates, when and if we, or any third party with whom we partner, elects to commence Phase III development of Ramoplanin, and our applications for marketing approval will depend on several factors, including the following: • the rate of patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and the nature of the protocol; • fluctuations in the disease incidence for patients available to enroll in our trials; • compliance of patients and investigators with the protocol and applicable regulations; • prior regulatory agency review and approval of our applications and procedures; • Institutional Review Board (“IRB”) review and monitoring; • analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities which are susceptible to varying interpretations, which interpretations could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • changes in the policies of regulatory authorities for drug approval during the period of product development including the FDA’s recent draft guidance released in October 2007 relating to Antibacterial Drug Products: Use of Noninferiority Studies to Support Approval; and • the availability of skilled and experienced staff to conduct and monitor clinical studies, to accurately collect data and to prepare the appropriate regulatory applications. We depend on key personnel, including members of our direct sales force, in a highly competitive market for such skilled personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our senior management and key scientific, sales and technical personnel. The loss of any of our personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our goals. We currently maintain employment agreements with the following executive officers: Steven M. Rauscher, President and Chief Executive Officer and Philippe M. Maitre, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The term of each employment agreement continues until it is terminated by the officer or Oscient. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified sales and marketing, clinical development, scientific and managerial personnel. Like others in our industry, we may face, and in the past we have faced from time to time, difficulties in attracting and retaining certain employees with the requisite expertise and qualifications. We believe that our historical recruiting periods and employee turnover rates are similar to those of others in our industry; however, we cannot be certain that we will not encounter greater difficulties in the future. With routine employee turnover, we also face the risk of being unable to enforce our rights under non-compete and non-solicitation provisions as well as confidentiality obligations that protect the Company. We also need to guard against the same obligations that our employees or our potential employees have with their former employers, otherwise we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers and disputes may arise as to rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims, which may result in substantial costs, be a distraction to management, require payment of money claims, and result in a loss of valuable intellectual property or personnel. 42 Table of Contents Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing FACTIVE abroad. We have entered into commercialization relationships with Pfizer Mexico and Menarini whereby we sublicensed our rights to sell FACTIVE tablets in Mexico to Pfizer Mexico and in Europe to Menarini. We had previously sublicensed our rights to commercialize FACTIVE tablets in Canada to Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (“Abbott Canada”) whereby Abbott Canada was responsible for the development and commercialization of FACTIVE in Canada, however our license agreement with Abbott Canada was terminated in December 2008, and Abbott Canada has ceased all development and commercialization activities relating to FACTIVE in Canada. Further, in order to market FACTIVE in Europe, we or our distribution partners may need to obtain multiple regulatory approvals. For instance, in the first quarter of 2008, Menarini, submitted a regulatory filing seeking approval of FACTIVE in Europe. Menarini is seeking approval of FACTIVE for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia and acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis. The regulatory review time in Europe is approximately twelve (12) months. Obtaining foreign approvals may require additional trials and expense. In recent years, the FDA has made the approval process for new antibiotics more challenging, sometimes requesting placebo-controlled or superiority design clinical studies for certain indications. It is possible that the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”) could adopt a similar position regarding the approval of new antibiotics for certain indications. Menarini may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for FACTIVE, which could delay or prevent us from receiving revenue from sales of FACTIVE in Europe, and/or may require additional expenditures. Moreover, our predecessor’s original regulatory filing in the United Kingdom was rejected. If our partners are unsuccessful in their efforts to obtain and/or expand their respective marketing approvals, the revenues that we expect to obtain from the sales of FACTIVE could be significantly limited. We rely on operational data obtained from third party vendors which could be inaccurate. We rely on prescription and wholesaler data obtained from industry-accepted, third-party data sources. These third-party data projections may not accurately reflect actual prescriptions or trade levels of inventory. If this data turns out to be inaccurate or unreliable and our controls are not effective, there could be an adverse effect on our ability to properly manage inventory and our financial performance. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Health care insurers, the government and other payers may not pay for our products or may impose limits on reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize ANTARA capsules, FACTIVE tablets, Ramoplanin and our future products will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for such products will be available from third-party payers, such as Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations, health insurers and other public and private payers. We cannot assure you that third-party payers will pay for such products or will establish and maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in product development. If government and private payers do not cover our products or do not reimburse for use of our products at adequate reimbursement levels, our products may fail to achieve market acceptance and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Under the Medicare Part D outpatient prescription drug benefit, Medicare beneficiaries (primarily the elderly over 65 and the disabled) may enroll in private drug plans. There are multiple types of Part D plans and numerous plan sponsors, each with its own formulary and product access requirements. The plans have considerable discretion in establishing formularies and tiered co-pay structures and in placing prior authorization and other restrictions on the utilization of specific products. In addition, Part D plan sponsors are permitted and encouraged to negotiate rebates with manufacturers. The profitability of our products may depend on the extent to which they enjoy preferred status on the formularies of a significant portion of the largest Part D prescription drug plans. Our ability to obtain such preferred status on favorable economic terms cannot be assured. Additionally, the Part D program has been the subject of much controversy since its enactment in 2003, 43 Table of Contents and significant amendments, including an amendment to authorize the Federal Government to directly negotiate drug prices with manufacturers, are possible. Such amendments could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and results of operations, possibly materially. Most state Medicaid programs have established preferred drug lists (“PDLs”), and the process, criteria and timeframe for obtaining placement on the PDL varies from state to state. Under the Medicaid drug rebate program, a manufacturer must pay a rebate for Medicaid utilization of a product. The rebate for an innovator product is based on the greater of (i) 15.1% of the product’s average manufacturer price (“AMP) or (ii) the difference between the product’s AMP and the best price offered by the manufacturer, plus an inflation adjustment if AMP increases faster than inflation. In addition, many states have established supplemental rebate programs as a condition for including a drug product on a PDL. The profitability of our products may depend on the extent to which they appear on the PDLs of a significant number of state Medicaid programs and the amount of the rebates that must be paid to such states. In addition, there is significant fiscal pressure on the Medicaid program, and amendments to lower the pharmaceutical costs of the program and/or lower manufacturers’ rebate liability are possible. Such amendments could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and results of operations, possibly materially. As part of the effort to control the costs of prescription drugs, many health maintenance organizations and other third-party payers use formularies, or lists of drugs for which coverage is provided under their benefit plans. Each payer that maintains a drug formulary makes its own determination as to whether a drug will be included in the formulary and whether particular drugs in a therapeutic class will have preferred status over other drugs in the same class. This determination often involves an assessment of the clinical appropriateness of the drug and sometimes the cost of the drug in comparison to alternative products. We cannot assure you that ANTARA capsules, FACTIVE tablets, Ramoplanin or any of our future products will be added to payers’ formularies, whether our products will have preferred status over alternative therapies, nor whether the formulary decisions will be made in a timely manner. We may also decide to enter into discount or formulary fee arrangements with payers, which could result in our receiving lower or discounted prices for our products. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards. The use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, might expose us to product liability claims. We currently maintain, and we expect that we will continue to maintain, product liability insurance coverage in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence and $10.0 million in the aggregate. Such insurance coverage might not protect us against all of the claims to which we might become subject. We might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. Additionally, as a result of the March 4, 2009 U.S. Supreme Court decision in Wyeth v. Levine, we may potentially be exposed to state common law product liability claims for inadequately disclosing risks related to our products’ use and we cannot predict the impact of this decision at this time. In the event a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity could result, all of which could harm our business. In addition, a product recall or excessive warranty claims (in any such case, whether arising from manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors or other safety or regulatory reasons) could have an adverse effect on our product sales or require a change in the indications for which our products may be used. 44 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE SECURITIES MARKET AND OUR 12.50% NOTES The price of our common stock and our 12.50% Notes is highly volatile. The market price of our stock and 12.50% Notes has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described herein, as well as other factors, including: • our ability to obtain financing necessary to meet future operating cash flow requirements; • our ability to service our debt obligations as they become due; • the revenues that we may derive from the sale of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets, as compared to analyst estimates or to our own guidance; • our ability to enter into transactions to acquire, license or co-promote additional products; • our ability to defend our products from generic attack and litigation relating to such matters; • whether we will be able to successfully integrate any additional products that we acquire, license or co-promote into our sales and marketing efforts; • the timing of the achievement of development milestones and other payments under our strategic alliance agreements; • termination of, or an adverse development in, our strategic alliances; • conditions and publicity regarding the pharmaceutical industry generally; • our ability to meet the continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Global Market; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance; • variations in our rates of product returns, allowances and rebates and discounts; • sales of shares of our common stock in the public market; and • comments by securities analysts, or our failure to meet market expectations, including our projected financial performance. Over the two-year period ending December 31, 2008 the closing price of our stock as reported on The NASDAQ Global Market ranged from a high of $8.07 to a low of $0.18. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility have sometimes been the subject of securities class action litigation. If litigation were instituted on this basis, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our securities, regardless of our operating performance. Any investment in our 12.50% Notes is subject to a very high degree of risk. Any investment in our 12.50% Notes is subject to a very high degree of risk. At maturity or upon an acceleration of the 12.50% Notes, the entire outstanding principal amount of our 12.50% Notes will become due and payable and we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the principal amount when due. Although the 12.50% Notes are guaranteed by our subsidiary Guardian II Acquisition Corporation (“Guardian II”) and this guarantee is secured by a second priority lien on substantially all of the assets of Guardian II, there is a substantial amount of uncertainty regarding both the value of the collateral and the ability of a holder of 12.50% Notes to realize value from the collateral. In the event of 45 Table of Contents foreclosure on the collateral, the proceeds from the sale of the collateral would be distributed first to satisfy indebtedness secured by the first priority lien held by Paul Capital. The value of the collateral and the amount to be received upon a sale of the collateral will depend upon many factors including, among others, the condition of the collateral and our industry, the ability to sell the collateral in an orderly sale, the condition of the international, national and local economies, the availability of buyers, the availability of credit to a buyer and similar factors all of which are subject to increased risk given recent turmoil in the credit markets. In addition to the foregoing, the 12.50% Notes are subject to risk and uncertainties, including that: • the 12.50% Notes are not listed on national exchange or quotation system and you may not be able to sell the 12.50% Notes at a price acceptable to you or at all; • bankruptcy laws may place additional limits on your ability to realize value from the collateral; • federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void guarantees and could require holders of the 12.50% Notes to return payments received from the guarantor; • the market price of our common stock into which the 12.50% Notes are convertible may fluctuate significantly, causing additional volatility in the price of the 12.50% Notes; and • investments in the 12.50% Notes may result in adverse tax consequences to you and you should consult you tax advisor before making any investment in the 12.50% Notes. Conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of our convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of notes could depress the price of our common stock and short selling by holders of 12.50% Notes engaging in hedging transactions which could further depress the price of our common stock. Multiple factors beyond our control may cause fluctuations in our operating results and may cause our stock price or the price of our 12.50% Notes to fall. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, including the following: • the pace of our commercialization of ANTARA capsules and FACTIVE tablets, and in the case of FACTIVE, seasonal fluctuations in the duration and severity of the annual respiratory tract infection season; • the level of acceptance by physicians and third party payers of ANTARA and FACTIVE; • expenses related to, and the results of, litigation and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights including the Lupin litigation; • our success in concluding transactions to acquire additional approved products and product candidates, and the pace of our commercialization of such additional products; • the introduction of new products and services by our competitors; • regulatory actions; • the progress of any future clinical trials for our products; and • the progress of any clinical trials conducted by partners for Ramoplanin or products developed through our legacy alliances. 46 Table of Contents We will not be able to control many of these factors. In addition, if our revenues in a particular period do not meet expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures in that period, which could cause our business to suffer and may cause our stock price to fall. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be meaningful. You should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price may fall, possibly by a significant amount. 