Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our company involves a high degree of risk. Before investing in our company you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the financial and other information contained in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety or efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay regulatory approval and prevent us from raising additional financing. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, and to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad, that our product candidates are both safe and effective. We will need to demonstrate our product candidates’ efficacy and monitor their safety throughout the process. We previously completed a pivotal Phase III clinical trial related to LAVIV. However, the success of prior pre-clinical or clinical trials does not ensure the success of these trials, which are being conducted in populations with different racial and ethnic demographics than our previous trials. If our current trials or any future clinical trials are unsuccessful, our business and reputation would be harmed and the price at which our stock trades could be adversely affected. All of our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of biotherapeutic products. The results of early-stage clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate desired safety and efficacy traits despite having successfully progressed through initial clinical testing. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates is promising, this data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any other U.S. or foreign regulatory approval. Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, FDA officials could reach different conclusions in assessing such data than we do which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, the FDA, other regulatory authorities, our Institutional Review Boards or we, may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Unlike our Phase III nasolabial fold wrinkles trial, our Phase II acne scar trial was not subject to a SPA with the FDA. In addition, we have developed a photo guide for use in the evaluators’ assessment of acne study subjects. Our evaluator assessment scale and photo guide have not been previously used in a clinical trial. To obtain FDA approval with respect to the acne scar indication, we will require FDA concurrence with the use of our evaluator assessment scale and photo guide. Our Phase II restrictive burn scar trial that we expect to commence in the second quarter of 2013 is also not subject to a SPA with the FDA. Obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is complex, time consuming and expensive, and the outcomes are uncertain. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is time consuming, expensive and difficult. Clinical trials are required and the marketing and manufacturing of our product candidates are subject to rigorous testing procedures. 14 Table of Contents The commencement and completion of clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed or prevented by a variety of factors, including: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study; • delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • delays or failures in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocol from an institutional review board, or IRB, to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective study site; • delays in the enrollment of subjects; • manufacturing difficulties; • failure of our clinical trials and clinical investigators to be in compliance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practices, or GCP; • failure of our third-party contract research organizations, clinical site organizations and other clinical trial managers, to satisfy their contractual duties, comply with regulations or meet expected deadlines; • lack of efficacy during clinical trials; or • unforeseen safety issues. We do not know whether our clinical trials will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all, or whether they will provide data necessary to support necessary regulatory approval. Significant delays in clinical trials will impede our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenue, and could significantly increase our development costs. We utilize bovine-sourced materials to manufacture LAVIV and our product candidates. Future FDA regulations, as well as currently proposed regulations, may require us to change the source of the bovine-sourced materials we use in our products or to cease using bovine-sourced materials. If we are required to use alternative materials in our products, and in the event that such alternative materials are available to us, or if we choose to change the materials used in our products in the future, we would need to validate the new manufacturing process and run comparability trials with the reformulated product, which could delay our submission for regulatory approval. Even if marketing approval from the FDA is received for one or more of our product candidates, the FDA may impose post-marketing requirements, such as: • labeling and advertising requirements, restrictions or limitations, including the inclusion of warnings, precautions, contra-indications or use limitations that could have a material impact on the future profitability of our product candidates; • testing and surveillance to further evaluate or monitor our future products and their continued compliance with regulatory standards and requirements; • submitting products for inspection; or • imposing a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. With respect to our LAVIV product, which was approved in June 2011, as part of our label the FDA required us to conduct a post-marketing study of approximately 2,700 patients, which has not yet commenced. 15 Table of Contents In order to increase our revenue from the sale of LAVIV, we will need to increase our manufacturing capacity, which will require significant expenditures and regulatory approval. We currently have limited manufacturing capacity. To increase our revenue from the sale of LAVIV, we will need to add manufacturing capacity, which may require us to develop enhancements and alternatives to our current manufacturing process. Even if we are successful in developing such enhancements or finding alternatives to our current process, increasing manufacturing capacity will require additional expenditures, for which we may require external financing. In addition, our ability to increase manufacturing capacity will be subject to additional FDA review. We intend to implement a significant price increase for LAVIV during the second quarter of 2013, and there is no assurance that the demand for LAVIV will not be materially reduced by such price increase. During the introductory phase for LAVIV, we have been selling LAVIV at a significant loss and we are going to significantly increase its selling price commencing on May 1, 2013. The new price will be $12,000 to the physician for the full treatment. We can provide no assurance that the demand for LAVIV will not be adversely affected by such price increase. To the extent demand is adversely affected by the price increase, we will not be in a position to reduce the price of LAVIV unless, and until, we are able to lower our manufacturing costs sufficiently to allow us to sell LAVIV at positive gross margins. We are subject to significant regulation with respect to the manufacturing of our products. All of those involved in the preparation of a cellular therapy for clinical trials or commercial sale, including our existing supply contract manufacturers and clinical trial investigators, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. Components of a finished therapeutic product approved for commercial sale or used in late-stage clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices. These regulations govern manufacturing processes and procedures and the implementation and operation of quality systems to control and assure the quality of investigational products and products approved for sale. Our facilities and quality systems and the facilities and quality systems of some or all of our third party contractors and suppliers must pass inspection for compliance with the applicable regulations as a condition of FDA approval of our products. In addition, the FDA may, at any time, audit or inspect a manufacturing facility involved with the preparation of LAVIV or our other potential products or the associated quality systems for compliance with the regulations applicable to the activities being conducted. The FDA also may, at any time following approval of a product for sale, audit our manufacturing facilities or those of our third party contractors. If any such inspection or audit identifies a failure to comply with applicable regulations or if a violation of our product specifications or applicable regulation occurs independent of such an inspection or audit, we or the FDA may require remedial measures that may be costly and/or time consuming for us or a third party to implement and that may include the temporary or permanent suspension of a clinical trial or commercial sales, recalls, market withdrawals, seizures or the temporary or permanent closure of a facility. Any such remedial measures imposed upon us or third parties with whom we contract could materially harm our business. We have limited manufacturing capacity and any manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and or adversely affect our ability to conduct our clinical trials. Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. We currently manufacture LAVIV at one facility in the U.S. and we also plan to manufacture our product candidates in the same facility. Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our sole facility and those of our third-party suppliers, which may be impacted by: • availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier; • capacity of our facility and those of our suppliers; • the performance of our information technology systems; 16 Table of Contents • compliance with regulatory requirements; • inclement weather and natural disasters; • changes in forecasts of future demand for product components; • timing and actual number of production runs for product components; • potential facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses; • updating of manufacturing specifications; and • product quality success rates and yields. If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments or supply constraints. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to supply our clinical trials due to manufacturing limitations, our trials may be delayed or compromised. Our manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers must undergo a potentially lengthy FDA approval process, as well as other regulatory approval processes, and are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It is a multi-year process to build and license a new manufacturing facility and it can take significant time to qualify and license a new supplier. In order to maintain supply, mitigate risks and to satisfy anticipated demand for LAVIV, as well as for our clinical trials, we must successfully implement manufacturing projects on schedule, since we currently do not have sufficient manufacturing capacity to supply LAVIV if orders for LAVIV significantly increase. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our suppliers or certain of our third-party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. Because our third-party service providers are subject to FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. If we or our third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, and supply constraints for our products. If LAVIV or any of our potential product candidates were to become the subject of problems related to their efficacy, safety, or otherwise, our revenues from LAVIV could decrease and our business would be seriously harmed. LAVIV, in addition to any other of our potential product candidates that may be approved by the FDA, will be subject to continual review by the FDA, and we cannot assure you that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise. With the use of any newly marketed drug by a wider patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, cause us to modify how we market our approved products, subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. In the event of a withdrawal of LAVIV from the market, our revenues would decline significantly and our business would be seriously harmed and could fail. Adoption of LAVIV for the treatment of the appearance of moderate to severe nasolabial fold wrinkles in adults may be slow or limited for a variety of reasons including the cost we must charge for the treatment, competing therapies and, perceived difficulties in the treatment process. If LAVIV is not successful in gaining broad acceptance as a treatment option for nasolabial fold wrinkles, our business could be harmed. The rate of adoption of LAVIV for nasolabial fold wrinkles will be dependent on several factors, including the cost we must charge for the treatment, educating and training physicians and their offices on the patient treatment process with LAVIV and autologous cellular therapy generally. As a first in class therapy, LAVIV utilizes a unique treatment approach, which can have associated challenges in practice for physicians. The logistics of the product, the injection technique required and the fact that the product constitutes a patient’s own cells represent different challenges for physicians. In addition, the tight manufacturing and injection timelines required for treatment with LAVIV will require physicians to adjust practice mechanics, which may result in delay in market adoption of LAVIV as a preferred therapy. Finally, we will be increasing the price we charge for LAVIV significantly commencing in the second quarter of 2013, which may reduce demand for LAVIV. 17 Table of Contents We rely on a scheduling and product tracking system. We have developed a tracking system for the intake of physician orders for LAVIV, to track product delivery, and to store patient-related data we obtain for purposes of manufacturing LAVIV. We rely on this system in order to maintain the chain of identity for each patient-specific dose of LAVIV, and to ensure timely delivery of product prior to expiration. If our system was to fail or be compromised, we could lose traceability of patient cells potentially resulting in loss of revenue and our reputation could suffer. A loss of traceability could cause our business to be materially harmed and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. Our business, including conducting our clinical trials, depends on one facility, which is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and information systems failures, terrorism and similar problems, and we are not fully insured for losses caused by all of these incidents. We currently conduct all our research, development and manufacturing operations in one facility located in Exton, Pennsylvania. As a result, all of the commercial manufacturing of LAVIV for the U.S. market takes place at a single U.S. facility. If regulatory, manufacturing or other problems require us to discontinue production at that facility, we will not be able to supply our product or supply our clinical trials, which would adversely impact our business. Our Exton facility could be damaged by fire, floods, power loss, telecommunication and information systems failures or similar events. Our insurance policies have limited coverage levels for loss or damages in these events and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause harm to our employees or damage our Exton facility. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that we cannot predict, and could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We are uninsured for these types of losses. If physicians do not follow our established protocols, the efficacy and safety of our product candidates may be adversely affected. We are dependent on physicians to follow our established protocols both as to the administration and the handling of our product candidates in connection with our clinical trials, and we continue to be dependent on physicians to follow such protocols after our product candidates are commercialized. The treatment protocol requires each physician to verify the patient’s name and date of birth with the patient and the patient records immediately prior to injection. In the event more than one patient’s cells are delivered to a physician or we deliver the wrong patient’s cells to the physician, which has occurred in the past, it is the physician’s obligation to follow the treatment protocol and assure that the patient is treated with the correct cells. If the physicians do not follow our protocol, the efficacy and safety of our product candidates may be adversely affected. We have yet to be profitable, we expect losses to increase from current levels and we will continue to experience significant negative cash flow as we expand our operations and undertake additional clinical trials, which may limit or delay our ability to become profitable. We have incurred losses since our inception, have not generated more than $1 million in annual revenue from commercial sales of our products since emerging from bankruptcy, and have never been profitable. We are focused on product development and the commercialization of LAVIV but we have limited manufacturing capacity. We expect to continue to experience increasing operating losses and negative cash flow as we continue our clinical trials for medical applications. 18 Table of Contents We expect to continue to incur significant additional costs and expenses related to: • FDA clinical trials and regulatory approvals; • Other studies such as our facial cream and our study in mild to moderate acne scars; • Our investigation of the automation of manufacturing; • the commercialization of LAVIV; • research and development; • personnel costs; and • development of relationships with strategic business partners, including physicians who might use our future products. If our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, if our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance, or if we do not succeed in effectively and efficiently implementing manufacturing process and technology improvements to make our product commercially viable, we will not be profitable. If we fail to become and remain profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, our business may fail. We will continue to experience operating losses and significant negative cash flow from operations until we begin to generate significant revenue from LAVIV or our new product candidates, which will require a significant increase in our manufacturing capacity, as well as FDA’s approval for this increased capacity and significant capital expenditures. As a result of our limited operating history, we may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. We have a limited operating history and our primary business activities consist of commercializing our LAVIV product and conducting clinical trials. As such, our historical financial data is of limited value in estimating future operating expenses. Our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning the costs commercializing our LAVIV product and of our clinical trials, which depend on the success of such trials and our ability to effectively and efficiently conduct such trials, and expectations related to our efforts to achieve FDA approval with respect to our product candidates. Our limited operating history and clinical trial experience make these costs and revenues difficult to forecast accurately. We may be unable to adjust our operations in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected increase in costs or shortfall in revenue. Further, our fixed manufacturing costs and business development and marketing expenses will increase significantly as we expand our operations. Accordingly, a significant increase in costs or shortfall in revenue could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future, which may cause our results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts, stockholders and investors. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the level of demand and profitability of LAVIV; • the timing, implementation and cost of our clinical studies; • expenses in connection with our exclusive channel collaboration arrangement with Intrexon; • the timely and successful implementation of improved manufacturing processes; • our ability to attract and retain personnel with the necessary strategic, technical and creative skills required for effective operations; 19 Table of Contents • the amount and timing of expenditures by practitioners and their patients; • introduction of new technologies; • product liability litigation, class action and derivative action litigation, or other litigation; • the amount and timing of capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of our operations; • the state of the debt and/or equity markets at the time of any proposed offering we choose to initiate; • our ability to successfully integrate new acquisitions into our operations; • government regulation and legal developments regarding LAVIV and our product candidates in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we may operate in the future; and • general economic conditions. As a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make pricing, service, technology or marketing decisions or business or technology acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Due to any of these factors, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts, stockholders and investors in any future period, which may cause our stock price to decline. We may be liable for product liability claims not covered by insurance. Physicians who used our facial aesthetic product in the past, or who may use any of our future products, and patients who have been treated by our facial aesthetic product in the past, or who may use any of our future products, may bring product liability claims against us. While we have taken, and continue to take, what we believe are appropriate precautions, we may be unable to avoid significant liability exposure. We currently keep in force product liability insurance, although such insurance may not be adequate to fully cover any potential claims or may lapse in accordance with its terms prior to the assertion of claims. We may be unable to obtain product liability insurance in the future, or we may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. Any insurance we obtain or have obtained in the past may not provide adequate coverage against any asserted claims. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • diversion of management’s time and attention; • expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, expenses and payment of damages; • decreased demand for our products or any of our future products and services; or • injury to our reputation. If we are the subject of any future product liability claims, our business could be adversely affected, and if these claims are in excess of insurance coverage, if any, that we may possess, our financial position will suffer. Our failure to comply with extensive governmental regulation may significantly affect our operating results. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for some or all of our product candidates, we will continue to be subject to extensive ongoing requirements by the FDA, as well as by a number of foreign, national, state and local agencies. These regulations will impact many aspects of our operations, including testing, research and development, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, quality control, adverse event reporting, import and export, record keeping, approval, distribution, advertising and promotion of our future products. We must also submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to an approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. Application holders must also submit advertising and other promotional material to the FDA and report on ongoing clinical trials. The FDA enforces post-marketing regulatory requirements, including the cGMP requirements, through periodic unannounced inspections. We do not know whether we will pass any future FDA inspections. Failure to pass an inspection could disrupt, delay or shut down our manufacturing operations. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in: • administrative or judicial enforcement actions; • changes to advertising; 20 Table of Contents • failure to obtain marketing approvals for our product candidates; • revocation or suspension of regulatory approvals of products; • product seizures or recalls; • court-ordered injunctions; • import detentions; • delay, interruption or suspension of product manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sales; or • civil or criminal sanctions. The discovery of previously unknown problems with our future products may result in restrictions of the products, including withdrawal from the market. In addition, the FDA may revisit and change its prior determinations with regard to the safety or efficacy of our future products. If the FDA’s position changes, we may be required to change our labeling or cease to manufacture and market our future products. Even prior to any formal regulatory action, we could voluntarily decide to cease the distribution and sale or recall any of our future products if concerns about their safety or efficacy develop. In their regulation of advertising and other promotion, the FDA and the FTC may issue correspondence alleging that some advertising or promotional practices are false, misleading or deceptive. The FDA and FTC are authorized to impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising and promotion practices, which could result in any of the following: • incurring substantial expenses, including fines, penalties, legal fees and costs to comply with the FDA’s requirements; • changes in the methods of marketing and selling products; • taking FDA mandated corrective action, which may include placing advertisements or sending letters to physicians rescinding previous advertisements or promotions; or • disruption in the distribution of products and loss of sales until compliance with the FDA’s position is obtained. Improper promotional activities may also lead to investigations by federal or state prosecutors, and result in criminal and civil penalties. If we become subject to any of the above requirements, it could be damaging to our reputation and restrict our ability to sell or market our future products, and our business condition could be adversely affected. We may also incur significant expenses in defending ourselves. 21 Table of Contents Physicians may prescribe pharmaceutical or biologic products for uses that are not described in a product’s labeling or differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. While such “off-label” uses are common and the FDA does not regulate physicians’ choice of treatments, the FDA does restrict a manufacturer’s communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies cannot promote FDA-approved pharmaceutical or biologic products for off-label uses, but under certain limited circumstances they may disseminate to practitioners’ articles published in peer-reviewed journals. To the extent allowed by the FDA, we intend to disseminate peer-reviewed articles on our future products to practitioners. If, however, our activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, the FDA or other regulatory or law enforcement authorities. Our sales, marketing, and scientific/educational grant programs, if any in the future, must also comply with applicable requirements of the anti-fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, the federal anti-kickback law, and similar state laws, each as amended. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veteran’s Health Care Act of 1992, each as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. The distribution of product samples to physicians must comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet post-approval requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response, and could generate negative publicity. Our competitors in the pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology industries may have superior products, manufacturing capabilities, financial resources or marketing position. The human healthcare products and services industry is extremely competitive. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies. Most of these competitors have more extensive research and development, marketing and production capabilities and greater financial resources than we do. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and market effectively our products against those of our competitors. If our products cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our results of operations and financial position will suffer. We are dependent on our key manufacturing, quality and other management personnel, and the loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. We are dependent on the efforts of our key management and manufacturing and quality staff. The loss of any of these individuals, or our inability to recruit and train additional key personnel in a timely manner, could materially and adversely affect our business and our future prospects. A loss of one or more of our current officers or key personnel could severely and negatively impact our operations. We have employment agreements with our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, but the remainder of our key personnel are employed “at-will,” and any of them may elect to pursue other opportunities at any time. We have no present intention of obtaining key man life insurance on any of our executive officers or key management personnel. We may need to attract, train and retain additional highly qualified senior executives and manufacturing and quality personnel in the future. In the future, we may need to seek additional senior executives, as well as manufacturing and quality staff members. There is a high demand for highly trained executive, manufacturing and quality personnel in our industry. We do not know whether we will be able to attract, train and retain highly qualified manufacturing and quality personnel in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, the value of our technology and future products will be adversely affected, and if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property against unauthorized use by third parties our business may be materially harmed. Our long-term success largely depends on our future ability to market technologically competitive products. Our ability to achieve commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our technology and future products, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. In order to do so we must: • obtain and protect commercially valuable patents or the rights to patents both domestically and abroad; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from successfully challenging or infringing our proprietary rights. As of December 31, 2012, we had 11 issued U.S. patents, 8 pending U.S. patent applications, 28 granted foreign patents and 9 pending international patent applications. However, we may not be able to obtain additional patents relating to our technology or otherwise protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain or maintain patents from our pending and future applications, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technology. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use only to the extent that these rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents that we control or are effectively maintained by us as trade secrets. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep a competitive advantage. The patent situation of companies in the markets in which we compete is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The laws of other countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents in foreign countries in which we hold patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions would likely result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. Other risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: • the inventors of the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications might not have been the first to make such inventions; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions or similar technology; • the future and pending applications we will file or have filed, or to which we will or do have exclusive rights, may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; • the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; • our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may not be valid or enforceable; • we might not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage; 23 Table of Contents • patents issued to other companies, universities or research institutions may harm our ability to do business; • other individual companies, universities or research institutions may independently develop or have developed similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we attempt to patent; • other companies, universities or research institutions may design around technologies we have licensed, patented or developed; and • many of our patent claims are method, rather than composition of matter, claims; generally composition of matter claims are easier to enforce and are more difficult to circumvent. Our business may be harmed and we may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. A third party may assert that we, one of our subsidiaries or one of our strategic collaborators has infringed his, her or its patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and proprietary rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our patent rights or to determine the scope and validity of a third party’s proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that other parties have not filed for or obtained relevant patents that could affect our ability to obtain patents or operate our business. Even if we have previously filed patent applications or obtain issued patents, others may file their own patent applications for our inventions and technology, or improvements to our inventions and technology. We have become aware of published patent applications filed after the issuance of our patents that, should the owners pursue and obtain patent claims to our inventions and technology could require us to challenge such patent claims. Others may challenge our patent or other intellectual property rights or sue us for infringement. In all such cases, we may commence legal proceedings to resolve our patent or other intellectual property disputes or defend against charges of infringement or misappropriation. An adverse determination in any litigation or administrative proceeding to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in our patents being deemed invalid, unenforceable or revoked, or drawn into an interference, require us to license disputed rights from others, if available, or to cease using the disputed technology. In addition, our involvement in any of these proceedings may cause us to incur substantial costs and result in diversion of management and technical personnel. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and could significantly harm our business. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we or our strategic collaborators may be required to: • pay monetary damages; • expend time and funding to redesign our Fibrocell Therapy so that it does not infringe others’ patents while still allowing us to compete in the market with a substantially similar product; • obtain a license, if possible, in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products or services, and pay license fees and royalties, which may be non-exclusive. This license may be non-exclusive, giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property, or the patent owner may require that we grant a cross-license to our patented technology; or • stop research and commercial activities relating to the affected products or services if a license is not available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our business strategy and the value of our business. 24 Table of Contents In addition, the defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interferences, oppositions and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and elsewhere, even if resolved in our favor, could be expensive and time consuming and could divert financial and managerial resources. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater financial resources. We have not declared any dividends on our common stock to date, and we have no intention of declaring dividends in the foreseeable future. The decision to pay cash dividends on our common stock rests with our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, unencumbered cash, capital requirements and financial condition. We do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future, as we intend to use any excess cash to fund our operations. Investors in our common stock should not expect to receive dividend income on their investment, and investors will be dependent on the appreciation of our common stock to earn a return on their investment. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay stockholders’ attempts to replace or remove current management. Our charter documents provide for staggered terms for the members of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes, and each director serves a term of three years. At stockholders’ meetings, only those directors comprising one of the three classes will have completed their term and be subject to re-election or replacement. In addition, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue “blank check” preferred stock, with designations, rights and preferences as they may determine. Accordingly, our Board of Directors has in the past and may in the future, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. This type of preferred stock could also be issued to discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control. The use of a staggered Board of Directors and the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock are traditional anti-takeover measures. These provisions in our charter documents make it difficult for a majority stockholder to gain control of the Board of Directors and of our company. These provisions may be beneficial to our management and our Board of Directors in a hostile tender offer and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such a tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of our Board of Directors. Provisions in our bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors, which could require us to direct funds away from our business and future products. Our bylaws provide for the indemnification of our officers and directors. We have in the past and may in the future be required to advance costs incurred by an officer or director and to pay judgments, fines and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which our officers and directors are involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director of our company. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses may be funds we need for the operation of our business and the development of our product candidates, thereby affecting our ability to attain profitability. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or as a result of the perception that these sales could occur, which could occur if we issue a large number of shares of common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) in connection with a future financing, as our common stock is trading at low levels. These factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock or other equity securities. As of March 25, 2013, there were 655,747,608 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. As of April 9, 2013, all of our outstanding shares will be freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act. In addition to our common stock outstanding, as of such date, we had warrants outstanding that were exercisable for a total of 153,299,031 shares of common stock. 25 Table of Contents There is a limited, volatile and sporadic public trading market for our common stock. There is a limited, volatile and sporadic public trading market for our common stock. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance of any liquidity or resale value of our common stock, and stockholders may be required to hold shares of our common stock for an indefinite period of time. We will seek to raise additional funds in the future, which may be dilutive to stockholders or impose operational restrictions. We expect to seek to raise additional capital in the future to help fund development of our proposed products. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or of debt securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced. We may also enter into strategic transactions, issue equity as part of license issue fees to our licensors, compensate consultants or settle outstanding payables using equity that may be dilutive. Our stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value per share and any additional equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we cannot raise additional funds, we will have to delay development activities of our products candidates. We are substantially controlled by our current officers, directors, and principal stockholders. Currently, our directors, executive officers, and principal stockholder beneficially own approximately 233.6 million shares of our common stock as of March 25, 2013. In addition, two of our seven directors are affiliates of our principal stockholder. As a result, our directors, officers and principal stockholder will be able to exert substantial influence over the election of our Board of Directors and the vote on issues submitted to our stockholders. Provisions of the warrants issued in connection with certain of our prior financings provide for preferential treatment to the holders of the warrants and could impede a sale of the Company. The warrants we issued in connection with certain of our prior financings gives each holder the option to receive a cash payment based on a Black-Scholes valuation upon our change of control or upon our failure to be listed on any trading market. We are required, at the warrant holder’s option, exercisable at anytime concurrently with, or within 30 days after, the announcement of a fundamental transaction, to redeem all or any portion of these warrants from the warrant holder by paying to the holder an amount of cash equal to the Black-Scholes value of the remaining unexercised portion of the warrant on or prior to the date of the consummation of such fundamental transaction. We will incur additional expenses in connection with our exclusive channel collaboration arrangement with Intrexon. Pursuant to our exclusive channel collaboration with Intrexon, we are responsible for future research and development expenses of product candidates developed under such collaboration, the effect of which we expect will increase the level of our overall research and development expenses going forward. Although all manufacturing, preclinical studies and human clinical trials are expensive and difficult to design and implement, costs associated with the manufacturing, research and development of biologic product candidates are generally greater in comparison to small molecule product candidates. We have added additional personnel and expect to add additional personnel to support our exclusive channel collaboration with Intrexon. Because our collaboration with Intrexon is relatively new, we have only recently assumed development responsibility and costs associated with such program. In addition, because development activities are determined pursuant to a joint steering committee comprised of Intrexon and ourselves and we have limited experience, future development costs associated this program may be difficult to anticipate and exceed our expectations. Our actual cash requirements may vary materially from our current expectations for a number of other factors that may include, but are not limited to, unanticipated technical challenges, changes in the focus and direction of our development activities or adjustments necessitated by changes in the competitive landscape in which we operate. If we are unable to continue to financially support such collaboration due to our own working capital constraints, we may be forced to discontinue the collaboration or delay our activities. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As disclosed in Item 9A of this report, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the deferred tax liability associated with intangible asset as of December 31, 2012. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. For more information see “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 