Item 1A. Risk Factors This report includes or incorporates forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties and fall within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking statements by our use of the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “would,” “intends,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative. We cannot guarantee that we actually will achieve these plans, intentions or expectations. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements, particularly under the heading “Business Risks,” that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements that we make. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement we make. Our sole market is the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which causes a cyclical impact on our financial results. We sell capital equipment to companies that design, manufacture, assemble, and test semiconductor devices. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, causing in turn a cyclical impact on our financial results. In fiscal 2006, the industry entered a growth period that was reflected in our improving operating results during fiscal 2006. However, our incoming product orders in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 decreased from the third quarter’s levels and continued to decrease in the first two quarters of fiscal 2007. Industry order rates did not increase significantly in fiscal 2008. The timing and level of an industry recovery is uncertain at this time as we enter our fiscal 2009. Any failure to expand in cycle upturns to meet customer demand and delivery requirements or contract in cycle downturns at a pace consistent with cycles in the industry could have an adverse effect on our business. 8 Table of Contents Any significant downturn in the markets for our customers’ semiconductor devices or in general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and would hurt our business. From the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 through the end of fiscal 2008, our revenue and operating results were negatively impacted by a downturn in the semiconductor industry. Downturns in the semiconductor test equipment industry have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess production capacity, accelerated erosion of selling prices and excessive inventory levels. We believe the markets for newer generations of devices, including system in package (“SIP”), will also experience similar characteristics. Our market is also characterized by rapid technological change and changes in customer demand. In the past, we have experienced delays in commitments, delays in collecting accounts receivable and significant declines in demand for our products during these downturns, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or exceed our current level of sales. Additionally, as a capital equipment provider, our revenue is driven by the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers who often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their businesses. Because a high portion of our costs are fixed, we are limited in our ability to reduce expenses and inventory purchases quickly in response to decreases in orders and revenues. In a contraction, we may not be able to reduce our significant fixed costs, such as continued investment in research and development and capital equipment requirements and materials purchases from our suppliers. We may be unable to integrate successfully the businesses of LTX and Credence and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. The recent merger of LTX and Credence involved the combination of two organizations that have operated as independent public companies. We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the two companies and delays in this process could adversely affect our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate operations, personnel and technology of LTX and Credence. If we are unable to successfully combine the businesses of LTX and Credence in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the merger, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following: • lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either of LTX or Credence deciding not to do business with us; • the inability to procure goods and services on favorable terms as a result of suppliers of either of LTX or Credence deciding not to do business with us; • the inability to retain, recruit or motivate key personnel; • complexities associated with managing our combined businesses; • difficulties associated with integrating personnel from diverse corporate cultures while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and customer service; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger; • disruption or interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses; and • inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Any of these difficulties could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the our business and financial results. 9 Table of Contents Even if we are able to integrate the business operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration and these benefits may not be achieved within a reasonable period of time. The market for semiconductor test equipment is highly concentrated, and we have limited opportunities to sell our products. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated, and a small number of semiconductor device manufacturers and contract assemblers account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor test equipment generally, including our test equipment. Sales to Texas Instruments accounted for 30% of our net sales in fiscal 2008 and 38% of our net sales in fiscal 2007. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 78% of revenues in fiscal year 2008 and 79% in fiscal year 2007. Our customers may cancel orders with few or no penalties. If a major customer reduces orders for any reason, our revenues, operating results, and financial condition will be affected. Our ability to increase our sales will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers. Semiconductor manufacturers select a particular vendor’s test system for testing the manufacturer’s new generations of devices and make substantial investments to develop related test program software and interfaces. Once a manufacturer has selected one test system vendor for a generation of devices, that manufacturer is more likely to purchase test systems from that vendor for that generation of devices, and, possibly, subsequent generations of devices as well. Therefore, the opportunities to obtain orders from new customers may be limited. Our sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period, including from one quarter to another, and they may continue to do so. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could adversely affect sales or profitability or lead to significant variability in our operating results or our stock price. This may be caused by a combination of factors, including the following: • sales of a limited number of test systems account for a substantial portion of our net sales in any particular fiscal quarter, and a small number of transactions could therefore have a significant impact; • order cancellations by customers; • lower gross margins in any particular period due to changes in: • our product mix, • the configurations of test systems sold, • the customers to whom we sell these systems, or • volume. • a long sales cycle, due to the high selling price of our test systems, the significant investment made by our customers, and the time required to incorporate our systems into our customers’ design or manufacturing process; and • changes in the timing of product orders due to: • unexpected delays in the introduction of products by our customers, • shorter than expected lifecycles of our customers’ semiconductor devices, • uncertain market acceptance of products developed by our customers, or • our own research and development. 10 Table of Contents We cannot predict the impact of these and other factors on our sales and operating results in any future period. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Because of this difficulty in predicting future performance, our operating results may fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A substantial amount of the shipments of our test systems for a particular quarter occur late in the quarter. Our shipment pattern exposes us to significant risks in the event of problems during the complex process of final integration, test and acceptance prior to shipment. If we were to experience problems of this type late in our quarter, shipments could be delayed and our operating results could fall below expectations. Our dependence on subcontractors and sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture our test systems and many of the components and subassemblies for our products, and we rely on sole source suppliers for certain components. We may be required to qualify new or additional subcontractors and suppliers due to capacity constraints, competitive or quality concerns or other risks that may arise, including a result of a change in control of, or deterioration in the financial condition of, a supplier or subcontractor. The process of qualifying subcontractors and suppliers is a lengthy process. Our reliance on subcontractors gives us less control over the manufacturing process and exposes us to significant risks, especially inadequate capacity, late delivery, substandard quality, and high costs. In addition, the manufacture of certain of these components and subassemblies is an extremely complex process. If a supplier became unable to provide parts in the volumes needed or at an acceptable price, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements from alternative sources of supply, or manufacture such components internally. The failure to qualify acceptable replacements quickly would delay the manufacturing and delivery of our products, which could cause us to lose revenues and customers. We also may be unable to engage alternative production and testing services on a timely basis or upon terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are required for any reason to seek a new manufacturer of our test systems, an alternate manufacturer may not be available and, in any event, transitioning to a new manufacturer would require a significant lead time of six months or more and would involve substantial expense and disruption of our business. Our test systems are highly sophisticated and complex capital equipment, with many custom components, and require specific technical know-how and expertise. These factors could make it more difficult for us to find a new manufacturer of our test systems if our relationship with our outsource suppliers is terminated for any reason, which would cause us to lose revenues and customers. We are dependent on certain semiconductor device manufacturers as sole source suppliers of components manufactured in accordance with our proprietary design and specifications. We have no written supply agreement with these sole source suppliers and purchase our custom components through individual purchase orders. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly and disruptive to our operations. We may be subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries. We are in the process of planning for and evaluating the impact of a directive to reduce the amount of hazardous materials in certain electronic components such as printed circuit boards. The directive is known as Directive 2002/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. “RoHS” is short for restriction of hazardous substances. The RoHS Directive banned the placing on the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing more than agreed levels of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyl (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE), except where exemptions apply, from 1 July 2006. Manufacturers are required to ensure that their products, including their 11 Table of Contents constituent materials and components, do not contain more than the minimum levels of the six restricted materials in order to be allowed to export goods into the Single Market (i.e. of the European Community’s 25 Member States). We are uncertain as to the impact of compliance on future expenses and supply of materials used to manufacture our equipment. Any interruption in supply due to the unavailability of lead free products could have a significant impact on the manufacturing and delivery of our products. If a supplier became unable to provide parts in the volumes needed or at an acceptable price, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements from alternative sources of supply or manufacture such components internally. The failure to qualify acceptable replacements quickly would delay the manufacturing and delivery of our products, which could cause us to lose revenues and customers. Future acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We have in the past, and may in the future, seek to acquire or invest in additional complementary businesses, products, technologies or engineers. For example, in August 2008 we completed our merger with Credence Systems Corporation and in June 2003, we completed our acquisition of StepTech, Inc. We may have to issue debt or equity securities to pay for future acquisitions, which could be dilutive to then current stockholders. We have also incurred and may continue to incur certain liabilities or other expenses in connection with acquisitions, which could continue to materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our past and future acquisitions may involve many risks, including: • difficulties in managing our growth following acquisitions; • difficulties in the integration of the acquired personnel, operations, technologies, products and systems of the acquired companies; • uncertainties concerning the intellectual property rights we purport to acquire; • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisitions; • diversion of managements’ attention from other business concerns; • adverse effects on our existing business relationships with our or our acquired companies’ customers; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-process research and development; and • inability to retain employees of acquired companies. Any of the events described in the foregoing paragraphs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to deliver custom hardware options and software applications to satisfy specific customer needs in a timely manner. We must develop and deliver customized hardware and software to meet our customers’ specific test requirements. Our test equipment may fail to meet our customers’ technical or cost requirements and may be replaced by competitive equipment or an alternative technology solution. Our inability to provide a test system that meets requested performance criteria when required by a device manufacturer would severely damage our reputation with that customer. This loss of reputation may make it substantially more difficult for us to sell test systems to that manufacturer for a number of years. We have, in the past, experienced delays in introducing some of our products and enhancements. 12 Table of Contents Our dependence on international sales and non-U.S. suppliers involves significant risk. International sales have constituted a significant portion of our revenues in recent years, and we expect that this composition will continue. International sales accounted for 61% of our revenues for fiscal year 2008 and 67% of our revenues for fiscal year 2007. In addition, we rely on non-U.S. suppliers for several components of the equipment we sell. As a result, a major part of our revenues and the ability to manufacture our products are subject to the risks associated with international commerce. A reduction in revenues or a disruption or increase in the cost of our manufacturing materials could hurt our operating results. These international relationships make us particularly sensitive to changes in the countries from which we derive sales and obtain supplies. Our recently announced plans to transition our outsource manufacturing to Penang, Malaysia increases our exposure to these types of international risks. International sales and our relationships with suppliers may be hurt by many factors, including: • changes in law or policy resulting in burdensome government controls, tariffs, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements; • political and economic instability in our target international markets; • longer payment cycles common in foreign markets; • difficulties of staffing and managing our international operations; • less favorable foreign intellectual property laws making it harder to protect our technology from appropriation by competitors; and • difficulties collecting our accounts receivable because of the distance and different legal rules. In the past, we have incurred expenses to meet new regulatory requirements in Europe, experienced periodic difficulties in obtaining timely payment from non-U.S. customers, and been affected by economic conditions in several Asian countries. Our foreign sales are typically invoiced and collected in U.S. dollars. A strengthening in the dollar relative to the currencies of those countries where we do business would increase the prices of our products as stated in those currencies and could hurt our sales in those countries. Significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could cause us to lower our prices and thus reduce our profitability. These fluctuations could also cause prospective customers to push out or delay orders because of the increased relative cost of our products. In the past, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between the dollar and the currencies of countries in which we do business. While we have not entered into significant foreign currency hedging arrangements, we may do so in the future. If we do enter into foreign currency hedging arrangements, they may not be effective. Our market is highly competitive, and we have limited resources to compete. The test equipment industry is highly competitive in all areas of the world. Many other domestic and foreign companies participate in the markets for each of our products, and the industry is highly competitive. Our competitors in the market for semiconductor test equipment include Advantest, Eagle Test Systems, Teradyne, Verigy and Yokogawa. Certain of these major competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer support capabilities. We expect our competitors to enhance their current products and to introduce new products with comparable or better price and performance. The introduction of competing products could hurt sales of our current and future products. In addition, new competitors, including semiconductor manufacturers themselves, may offer new testing technologies, which may in turn reduce the value of our product lines. Increased competition could lead to intensified price-based competition, which would hurt our business and results of operations. Unless we are able to invest significant financial resources in developing products and maintaining customer support centers worldwide, we may not be able to compete effectively. 13 Table of Contents Development of our products requires significant lead-time, and we may fail to correctly anticipate the technical needs of our customers. Our customers make decisions regarding purchases of our test equipment while their devices are still in development. Our test systems are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their new devices. We therefore must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers’ devices, requiring us to make significant capital investments to develop new test equipment for our customers well before their devices are introduced. If our customers fail to introduce their devices in a timely manner or the market does not accept their devices, we may not recover our capital investment through sales in significant volume. In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not generate revenue in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction of products embodying new technologies or features by our competitors. Furthermore, if we were to make announcements of product delays, or if our competitors were to make announcements of new test systems, these announcements could cause our customers to defer or forego purchases of our existing test systems, which would also hurt our business. Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our success will depend substantially upon the continued service of our executive officers and key personnel, none of whom are bound by an employment or non-competition agreement. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managers and technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for such specialized personnel is intense, and it may become more difficult for us to hire or retain them. Our volatile business cycles only aggravate this problem. Layoffs in any industry downturn could make it more difficult for us to hire or retain qualified personnel. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current positions, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain intellectual property rights and licenses and to preserve other intellectual property rights covering our products and development and testing tools. To that end, we have obtained certain domestic patents and may continue to seek patents on our inventions when appropriate. We have also obtained certain trademark registrations. To date, we have not sought patent protection in any countries other than the United States, which may impair our ability to protect our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions. The process of seeking intellectual property protection can be time consuming and expensive. We cannot ensure that: • patents will issue from currently pending or future applications; • our existing patents or any new patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us; • foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights; or • others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our technology. If we do not successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and confidentiality provisions in agreements with employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. Other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to adequately enforce our rights against these people. 14 Table of Contents Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation costs, licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products. Intellectual property rights are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may be unknowingly infringing on the intellectual property rights of others and may be liable for that infringement, which could result in significant liability for us. If we do infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to either seek a license to intellectual property rights of others or alter our products so that they no longer infringe the intellectual property rights of others. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. We are responsible for any patent litigation costs. If we were to become involved in a dispute regarding intellectual property, whether ours or that of another company, we may have to participate in legal proceedings. These types of proceedings may be costly and time consuming for us, even if we eventually prevail. If we do not prevail, we might be forced to pay significant damages, obtain licenses, modify our products or processes, stop making products or stop using processes. Our stock price is volatile. In the twelve-month period ending on July 31, 2008, our stock price ranged from a low of $2.04 to a high of $4.29. The price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors, such as: • quarterly variations in operating results; • variances of our quarterly results of operations from securities analyst estimates; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • announcements of technological innovations, new products, or strategic alliances; and • news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for semiconductor-related companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies affected by these fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We have substantial indebtedness. As of the date of this report, we have $54.2 million principal amount of 3.50% Credence Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes (the “Notes”) due 2010 as well as $17.9 million in principal outstanding as of July 31, 2008 under a commercial loan. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The level of indebtedness, among other things, could • make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt and other obligations; • make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service for indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business and the industries in which we compete; 15 Table of Contents • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage with respect to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resource; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations, including our obligations under the Notes. We may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations. If our cash flow is inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. During our first quarter of fiscal 2009, we repurchased $69.3 million principal amount of Credence’s 3.5% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2010, reducing our cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we have monthly principal and interest payments through December 2010 related to our $20.0 million term loan from a commercial lender. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payment on the term loan, or certain of our other obligations, we would be in default under the terms thereof, which could permit the holders of those obligations to accelerate their maturity and also could cause default under future indebtedness we may incur. Any such default could have material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial position and operating results. In addition, we may not be able to repay amounts due in respect of our obligations, if payment of those obligations were to be accelerated following the occurrence of any other event of default as defined in the instruments creating those obligations. We may need additional financing, which could be difficult to obtain. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, and borrowings from available bank financings, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements to fund operations and expected capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. In the event we need to raise additional funds, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain such additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. Further, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. Future financings may place restrictions on how we operate our business. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures, which could seriously harm our business. Uncertainty about the recently completed merger of LTX and Credence may adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees. In response to the merger of LTX and Credence, existing or prospective customers or suppliers of LTX-Credence may: • delay, defer or cease purchasing goods or services from or providing goods or services to us; • delay or defer other decisions concerning LTX-Credence, or refuse to extend credit to us; or • otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with us. Any such delays or changes to terms could seriously harm the business of the Company. In addition, as a result of the merger current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future with the Company. These uncertainties may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key personnel. 16 Table of Contents We have and expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with the merger. We have and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses related to the merger. We estimate that we will incur direct transaction costs of approximately $11 million in connection with the merger. In addition, there are a large number of systems that must be integrated, including management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll and benefits, fixed assets and lease administration systems, and regulatory compliance. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred from the integration of the companies, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of all the expected integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are impracticable to estimate. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses, the realization of economies of scale, and cost savings and revenue synergies related to the integration of the two companies following the completion of the merger. The amount and timing of any these charges are uncertain at the present. In addition, we may incur additional material charges in subsequent fiscal quarters to reflect additional costs in connection with the merger. The combined company will face uncertainties related to the effectiveness of internal controls. Public companies in the United States are required to review their internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, any design may not achieve its stated goal under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Although in the past each of LTX’s and Credence’s management has determined, and each of their respective independent registered public accounting firms have attested, that their respective internal controls were effective as of the end of their most recent fiscal years, the integration of LTX and Credence, and their respective internal control systems and procedures, may result in or lead to a future material weakness in our internal controls, or we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Internal control deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified could emerge. Over time we may identify and correct deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls and, where and when appropriate, report on the identification and correction of these deficiencies or weaknesses. However, the internal control procedures can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that deficiencies or weaknesses are identified. Deficiencies or weaknesses that have not been identified by us could emerge and the identification and correction of these deficiencies or weaknesses could have a material impact on our results of operations. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock following the completion of the merger. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, which we refer to in this Report as GAAP, the merger of LTX and Credence has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, which will result in charges to earnings that could have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock following the completion of the merger. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated 17 Table of Contents purchase price will be allocated to Credence’s net tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets or expense for in-process research and development based on their respective fair values as of August 29, 2008. Any excess of the fair values over the purchase price of those assets has been preliminarily recorded as a pro rata reduction of qualifying assets principally noncurrent tangible and intangible assets. We will incur additional amortization expense based on the identifiable amortizable intangible assets acquired in connection with the merger agreement and their relative useful lives. Additionally, to the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets may become impaired, we will be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment. These amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 