Item 1A. Risk Factors This report includes or incorporates forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties and fall within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking statements by our use of the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “intends,” “estimates,” “seeks” and similar expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative. We cannot guarantee that we actually will achieve these plans, intentions or expectations. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included below important factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements that we make. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement we make. Our mergers and acquisitions may be costly, difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and divert management attention, which may limit our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions. On September 6, 2013, we entered into a Master Sale and Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with Dover Printing & Identification, Inc. (“Dover”) and, solely for the limited purposes set forth in the Purchase Agreement, Dover Corporation (“Dover Parent”), to purchase certain specified assets of the ECT and MT businesses of Dover and its affiliates (such transaction, the “Dover Acquisition” and the ECT and MT businesses, the “Acquired Businesses”). See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more complete description of the Dover Acquisition. The Dover Acquisition is substantial in size, scope, and complexity, and entails many changes, including the integration of the ECT Business and the MT Business, Dover personnel and Dover systems with our operations. These transition activities are complex and we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs related to the acquisition, and the commercial and financial success of the acquisition is subject to many risks including those set forth below: • We might not be successful in integrating employees, products and technology with our existing business, and such integration may divert significant management attention from our existing business; • We may realize greater expenses than we anticipated from the transaction; • We may fail to realize synergies that we anticipated from the transaction; • We may fail to retain key executives and employees, which could reduce the likelihood of success of the acquisition; • We may encounter difficulties in the assimilation of employees and corporate cultures; • The combination of the companies may not deliver to our customers the benefits that we have anticipated, which may result in customers reducing their aggregate spending with the ECT Business, the MT Business and/or with our existing businesses; • We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of newly acquired companies in a manner that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines and allows us to realize value from expected synergies; • We may assume unforeseen legal, regulatory, intellectual property or other liabilities; • We will have less cash available for other purposes, including acquisitions of technologies or businesses. If any of these or other factors impair our ability to integrate our operations successfully or on a timely basis, we may not be able to realize the anticipated synergies, business opportunities, revenue, net income, and growth prospects from combining the businesses. In addition, we may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that otherwise would be spent on the development and expansion of our business. 8 Table of Contents In addition, the market price of our common stock may decline if the integration of the businesses are unsuccessful, takes longer than expected or fails to achieve financial benefits to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors, or the effect of the business combination on the financial results of the combined company is otherwise not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors. We have in the past, and may in the future, seek to acquire or invest in additional businesses, products, technologies or engineers which could put a strain on our resources, result in one-time charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs or restructuring charges) or in the future, impairment of goodwill, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders and adversely affect our financial results. Additionally, we may fund future acquisitions by utilizing our cash, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or by other means, which could subject us to the risk described below in “We may need financing, which could be difficult to obtain.” We have also incurred and may continue to incur certain liabilities or other expenses in connection with acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and future mergers or acquisitions may not be successful and could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Integrating newly acquired businesses, products or technologies into our company could put a strain on our resources, could be expensive and time consuming, may cause delays in product delivery and might not be successful. Future acquisitions and investments could divert management’s attention from other business concerns and expose our business to unforeseen liabilities (including liabilities related to acquired intellectual property and other assets), unanticipated costs associated with transactions, and risks associated with entering new markets. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. We might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products and product development projects, technologies, personnel, operations, or systems, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. Investments that we make may not result in a return consistent with our projections upon which such investments are made, or may require additional investment that we did not originally anticipate. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our sole market is the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which causes a cyclical impact on our financial results. We sell capital equipment to companies that design, manufacture, assemble, and test semiconductor devices. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, causing a cyclical impact on our financial results. Although industry order rates increased in portions of fiscal 2011, industry conditions weakened as we entered fiscal 2012 and continued to weaken through fiscal 2013. The timing and level of sustained industry recovery is uncertain at this time. The ability to forecast the business outlook for our industry is typically limited to three months. As a result, our expectations for our business for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2014 (“fiscal 2014”) remain uncertain. Regardless of our outlook and forecasts, any failure to expand in cycle upturns to meet customer demand and delivery requirements or contract in cycle downturns at a pace consistent with the industry could have an adverse effect on our business. Any significant downturn in the markets for our customers’ semiconductor devices or in general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and would negatively impact our business. Downturns in the semiconductor test equipment industry have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess production capacity, accelerated erosion of selling prices and excessive inventory levels. We believe the markets for newer generations of semiconductor devices will also experience similar characteristics. Our market is also characterized by rapid technological change and changes in customer demand. In the past, we have experienced delays in purchase commitments, delays in collecting accounts receivable and significant declines in demand for our products during these downturns, and we may not be able to maintain or exceed our current level of sales. 9 Table of Contents Additionally, as a capital equipment provider, our revenue is driven by the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers who often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their businesses. Because a high portion of our costs are fixed, we are limited in our ability to reduce expenses and inventory purchases quickly in response to decreases in orders and revenues. In an economic contraction, we may not be able to reduce our significant fixed costs, such as continued investment in research and development and capital equipment requirements and materials purchases from our suppliers. The market for semiconductor test equipment is highly concentrated, and we have limited opportunities to sell our products. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated, and a small number of semiconductor device manufacturers and contract assemblers account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor test equipment generally, including our test equipment. Our top customers in fiscal 2013 were Spirox and Texas Instruments, which accounted for 27% and 12% of our net sales, respectively. In fiscal 2012, our top customers were Spirox and Texas Instruments, which accounted for 22% and 21% of our net sales, respectively. In fiscal 2011, our top customers were Texas Instruments, Spirox, and Atmel, which accounted for 23%, 14%, and 13% of our net sales, respectively. Sales to the top ten customers were 70%, 68%, and 80%, of net sales in fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Our customers may cancel orders with few or no penalties. If a major customer reduces orders for any reason, our revenues, operating results, and financial condition may be negatively affected. Our ability to increase our sales will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain orders from new customers. Semiconductor manufacturers typically select a particular vendor’s test system for testing its new generations of a device and make substantial investments to develop related test program applications and interfaces. Once a manufacturer has selected a test system vendor for a new generation of a device, that manufacturer is more likely to purchase test systems from that vendor for that generation of the device, and, possibly, subsequent generations of that device as well. Therefore, the opportunities to obtain orders from new customers may be limited, which may impair our ability to grow our revenue. Our sales and operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period, including from one quarter to another, and they may continue to do so. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that have had and could continue to have material and adverse effects on our financial condition and stock price or lead to significant variability in our operating results or our stock price, including the following: • the fact that sales of a limited number of test systems may account for a substantial portion of our net sales in any particular fiscal quarter; • order cancellations by customers; • lower gross margins in any particular period due to changes in: • our product mix; • the configurations of test systems sold; • the customers to whom we sell our test systems; or • volume; • a long sales cycle due to the significant investment made by our customers in installing our test systems and the time required to incorporate our systems into our customers’ design or manufacturing process; and • changes in the timing of product orders due to: • unexpected delays in the introduction of products by our customers, 10 Table of Contents • excess production capacity our customers, • shorter than expected lifecycles of our customers’ semiconductor devices, • uncertain market acceptance of products developed by our customers, or • our own research and development. We cannot predict the impact of these and other factors on our sales and operating results in any future period. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Because of this difficulty in predicting future performance, our operating results may fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A substantial amount of the shipments of our test systems for a particular quarter may occur late in the quarter. Our shipment pattern may expose us to significant risks of not meeting our expected financial results for each quarter in the event of problems during the complex process of final, test and acceptance prior to revenue recognition. If we were to experience problems of this type late in our quarter, shipments could be delayed and our operating results could fall below expectations. Our dependence on subcontractors and sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis. We rely on one subcontractor to manufacture our test systems and multiple other subcontractors for the manufacture of the components and subassemblies used to produce our test systems. Certain of the suppliers for certain components and subassemblies are sole source suppliers. We have no long term supply agreements with our contract manufacturers and purchase products through individual purchase orders. We may be required to qualify new or additional subcontractors and suppliers due to capacity constraints, competitive or quality concerns or other risks that may arise, including as a result of a change in control of, or deterioration in the financial condition of, a supplier or subcontractor. The process of qualifying subcontractors and suppliers is lengthy. Our reliance on subcontractors gives us less control over the manufacturing process and exposes us to significant risks, especially inadequate capacity, late delivery, substandard quality, and high costs. In addition, the manufacture of certain of these components and subassemblies is an extremely complex process. If a supplier became unable to provide parts in the volumes needed, at the required standards of quality or at an acceptable price, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacement parts from alternative sources of supply or manufacture such components or subassemblies internally. The failure to qualify acceptable replacement subcontractors or suppliers quickly would delay the manufacturing and delivery of our products, which could cause us to lose revenues and customers. We also may be unable to engage alternative sources for the production of our testing systems on a timely basis or upon terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are required for any reason to seek a new manufacturer of our test systems, an alternate manufacturer may not be available and, in any event, transitioning to a new manufacturer would require a significant lead time of nine months or more and would involve substantial expense and disruption of our business. Our test systems are highly sophisticated and complex capital equipment, with many custom components, and final assembly requires specific technical know-how and expertise. These factors could make it more difficult for us to find a new manufacturer of our test systems if our relationship with our outsource suppliers is terminated for any reason, which would cause us to lose revenues and customers. We are dependent on certain semiconductor device manufacturers as sole source suppliers of certain sub-assemblies and components used in our test systems which are manufactured in accordance with our proprietary design and specifications. We have no written supply agreement with these sole source suppliers and purchase our custom components through individual purchase orders. If one of our sole source suppliers were to fail to produce or provide the parts they agreed to build for us at the specifications, price or volume required, we would face a significant delay in the final production of our products because we do not have redundant capacity available, and our revenue and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly and disruptive to our operations. We may be subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries that limit or restrict the amount of hazardous material in certain electronic components such as printed circuit boards. One such regulation is Directive 2002/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 that restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. “RoHS” is short for restriction of hazardous substances. The RoHS Directive banned the placing on the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing more than agreed levels of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyl (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE), except where exemptions apply, from July 1, 2006. Manufacturers are required to ensure that their products, including their constituent materials and components, do not contain more than the minimum levels of the nine restricted materials in order to be allowed to export goods into the Single Market (i.e. of the European Community’s 28 Member States). Any interruption in supply due to the unavailability of restriction free products could have a significant impact on the manufacturing and delivery of our products. If a supplier became unable to provide parts in the volumes needed or at an acceptable price, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements from alternative sources of supply or manufacture such components internally. As previously discussed, the failure to qualify acceptable replacements quickly would delay the manufacturing and delivery of our products, which could cause us to lose revenues and customers. New regulations related to conflict minerals may adversely affect us. The SEC recently adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that the materials come from, or could have come from, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. These new rules and verification requirements, which will apply to our activities in calendar 2013, will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. We may not be able to deliver custom hardware options and related applications to satisfy specific customer needs in a timely manner. The success of our business relies in substantial part on our ability to develop and deliver customized hardware and applications to meet our customers’ specific test requirements. Our test equipment may fail to meet our customers’ technical or cost requirements and may be replaced by competitive equipment or an alternative technology solution. Our inability to provide a test system that meets requested performance criteria when required by a device manufacturer would severely damage our reputation with that customer. This loss of reputation together with the risks discussed above under, “The market for semiconductor test equipment is highly concentrated, and we have limited opportunities to sell our products” may make it substantially more difficult for us to sell test systems to that manufacturer for a number of years. We have, in the past, experienced delays in introducing some of our products and enhancements. Our dependence on international sales and non-U.S. suppliers involves significant risk. International sales have constituted a significant portion of our revenues in recent years, and we expect that to continue. International sales accounted for 83% of our revenues for fiscal 2013, 77% of our revenues for fiscal 2012 and 85% of our revenues for fiscal 2011. In addition, we rely on non-U.S. suppliers for several components of the equipment we sell. As a result, a major part of our revenues and the ability to manufacture our products are subject to the risks associated with international commerce. These international relationships make us particularly sensitive to economic, political, regulatory and environmental changes in the countries from which we derive sales and obtain supplies. Our sole source final assembly manufacturing supplier in Malaysia increases our exposure to these types of international risks. International sales and our relationships with suppliers may be hurt by many factors, including: • changes in law or policy resulting in burdensome government controls, tariffs, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements; 12 Table of Contents • political and economic instability in our target international markets; • longer payment cycles common in foreign markets; • difficulties of staffing and managing our international operations; • less favorable foreign intellectual property laws making it harder to protect our technology from appropriation by competitors; • difficulties collecting our accounts receivable; • the impact of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and similar laws; and • adverse weather and climate events. In the past, we have incurred expenses to meet new regulatory requirements in Europe, experienced periodic difficulties in obtaining timely payment from non-U.S. customers, and been affected by economic conditions in several Asian countries. Our foreign sales are typically invoiced and collected in U.S. dollars. A strengthening in the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of those countries where we do business would increase the prices of our products as stated in those currencies and could hurt our sales in those countries. Significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could cause us to lower our prices and thus reduce our profitability. These fluctuations could also cause prospective customers to push out or delay orders because of the increased relative cost of our products. In the past, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of countries in which we do business. From time to time we may enter into foreign currency hedging arrangements. Our market is highly competitive, and we have limited resources to compete. The semiconductor test equipment industry is highly competitive in all areas of the world. There are other domestic and foreign companies that participate in the markets for each of our products. Our main competitors in the industry are Advantest Corporation and Teradyne Inc. These competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer support capabilities than we have. We expect our competitors to enhance their current products and to introduce new products that may have comparable or better price and performance. The introduction of competing products could hurt sales of our current and future products. In addition, new competitors, including semiconductor manufacturers themselves, may offer new testing technologies, which may in turn reduce the value of our product lines. Increased competition could lead to intensified price-based competition, which would hurt our business and results of operations. Unless we are able to invest significant financial resources in developing products and maintaining customer support centers worldwide, we may not be able to compete effectively. We are exposed to the risks associated with the volatility of the U.S. and global economies. Slow or negative growth in the domestic or global economies may continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations for the foreseeable future. The strength of the domestic and global economies impact business capital spending and the sale of electronic goods and information technology equipment, which impacts our sales, revenues, and profits. The lack of visibility regarding whether there will be sustained growth in domestic and global economies creates uncertainty regarding the amount of our sales, and underscores the need for caution in predicting growth in the semiconductor test equipment industry in general and in our revenues and profits specifically. Our results of operations would be further adversely affected if we were to experience lower than anticipated order levels, cancellations of orders in backlog, extended customer delivery requirements or pricing pressure as a result of a slowdown. At lower levels of revenue, there is a higher likelihood that these types of changes in our customers’ requirements would adversely affect our results of operations because in any particular quarter a limited number of transactions accounts for an even greater portion of sales for the quarter. 13 Table of Contents Development of our products requires significant lead-time and expenditures, and we may fail to correctly anticipate the technical needs of our customers. Our test systems are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their new semiconductor devices. We therefore must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers’ semiconductor devices, requiring us to make significant capital investments to develop new test equipment for our customers well before their devices are introduced. If our customers fail to introduce their devices in a timely manner or the market does not accept their devices, we may not recover our capital investment, in whole or in part. In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not generate revenue in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction of products embodying new technologies or features by our competitors. Furthermore, if we were to make announcements of product delays, or if our competitors were to make announcements of new test systems, these announcements could cause our customers to defer or forego purchases of our test systems, which would also hurt our business. We may not be able to recover capital expenditures. We continue to make capital expenditures in the ordinary course of our business. We may not be able to recover the expenditures for capital projects within the assumed timeframe, or at all, which may have an adverse impact on our profitability. We have significant guarantees, indemnification and customer confidentiality obligations. From time to time, we make guarantees to customers regarding the delivery and performance of our products and guarantee certain indebtedness, performance obligations or lease commitments of our subsidiary and affiliate companies. We also have agreed to provide indemnification to our officers, directors, employees and agents, to the extent permitted by law, arising from certain events or occurrences while the officer, director, employee or agent, is or was serving at our request in such capacity. Additionally, we have confidentiality obligations to certain customers. If we become liable under any of these obligations, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our success depends substantially upon the continued service of our executive officers and key personnel, none of whom is bound by an employment or non-competition agreement. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managers and technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for such specialized personnel is intense, and it may become more difficult for us to hire or retain them. Our volatile business cycles only aggravate this problem. If we implement layoffs during an industry downturn, our ability to hire or retain qualified personnel may be diminished. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract additional skilled employees. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain intellectual property rights and licenses and to preserve other intellectual property rights covering our products and development and testing tools. To that end, we have obtained certain domestic and international patents and may continue to seek patents on our inventions when appropriate. We have also obtained certain trademark registrations. The process of seeking intellectual property protection can be time consuming and expensive. We cannot ensure that: • patents will issue from currently pending or future applications; 14 Table of Contents • our existing patents or any new patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us; • foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights; or • others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our technology. If we do not successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and confidentiality provisions in agreements with employees and consultants to protect our intellectual property. Other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to adequately enforce our rights against these people. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could incur significant litigation costs and licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products. Intellectual property rights are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may be unknowingly infringing on the intellectual property rights of others and may be liable for that infringement, which could result in a significant liability for us. If we do infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to either seek a license to intellectual property rights of others or alter our products so that they no longer infringe the intellectual property rights of others. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. If we were to become involved in a dispute regarding intellectual property, whether ours or that of another company, we may have to participate in legal proceedings. These types of proceedings may be costly and time consuming for us, even if we eventually prevail. If we do not prevail, we might be forced to pay significant damages, obtain licenses, modify our products or processes, stop making products or stop using processes. We currently are and in the future may be subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business From time to time, we may be subject to litigation or other administrative and governmental proceedings that could require significant management time and resources and cause us to incur expenses and, in the event of an adverse decision, pay damages in an amount that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Product defects and any damages stemming from product liability could harm our reputation among existing and potential customers and could have a material adverse effect upon business results and financial condition We cannot guarantee that there are no defects in the products we manufacture or that our product liability insurance will sufficiently cover the ultimate amount of any damages caused by such defects. Large scale accidents due to product defects or any discovery of defects in our products could harm our reputation, result in claims for damages, and have a material adverse effect upon our business results and financial condition. Our operations and the operations of our customers and suppliers are subject to risks of natural catastrophic events, widespread health epidemics, acts of war, terrorist attacks and the threat of domestic and international terrorist attacks, any one of which could result in cancellation of orders, delays in deliveries or other business activities, or loss of customers and could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our operations and those of our customers and suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, health epidemics, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, volcanic 15 Table of Contents eruptions, energy shortages, telecommunication failures, tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption could materially increase our costs and expenses as well as cause delays in, among other things, shipments of products to our customers, our ability to perform services requested by our customers, or the installation and acceptance of our products at customer sites. Any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Damage, interference or interruption to our information technology networks and systems could hinder business continuity and lead to substantial costs or harm to our reputation We rely on various information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, including confidential data, and to carry out and support a variety of business activities, including manufacturing, research and development, supply chain management, sales and accounting. Attacks by hackers or computer viruses, wrongful use of the information security system, careless use, accidents or disasters could undermine the defenses we have established for these systems and disrupt business continuity, which could not only risk leakage or tampering of information but could also result in a legal claim, litigation, damages liability or an obligation to pay fines. If this were to occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could incur substantial costs, and it may have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operation. We may need financing, which could be difficult to obtain. In connection with the acquisition of the ECT Business and the MT Business as discussed in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we expect to incur substantial indebtedness to partially fund the purchase price. Before and following the closing of the acquisition we expect that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements to fund operations and expected capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. In the event we need to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, if at all. Further, if we issue additional equity securities to obtain financing, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock and place restrictions on how we operate our business. If we incur substantial indebtedness in the future, including in connection with the acquisition of the ECT Business and the MT Business, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to our debt service obligations, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business and the industry in which we compete, make it more difficult for us to obtain any other necessary future financing and make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures, which could seriously harm our business. Our stock price is volatile. In the twelve-month period ending on July 31, 2013, our stock price ranged from a low of $5.05 to a high of $6.84. The price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors, such as: • quarterly variations in operating results; • variances of our quarterly results of operations from securities analysts’ estimates; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • announcements of technological innovations, new products, acquisitions or strategic alliances; and • news reports relating to trends in our markets. 16 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for semiconductor-related companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies affected by these fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We may record impairment charges, which would adversely impact our results of operations. We review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable, and we also review goodwill annually in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”), Topic 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other. One potential indicator of goodwill impairment is whether our fair value, as measured by our market capitalization, has remained below our net book value for a significant period of time. Whether our market capitalization triggers an impairment charge in any future period will depend on the underlying reasons for the decline in stock price, the significance of the decline, and the length of time the stock price has been trading at such prices. In the event that we determine in a future period that impairment exists for any reason, we would record an impairment charge, which would reduce the underlying asset’s value in the period such determination is made, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Internal control deficiencies or weaknesses that are not yet identified could emerge. Over time we may identify and correct deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls and, where and when appropriate, report on the identification and correction of these deficiencies or weaknesses. However, the internal control procedures can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that deficiencies or weaknesses are identified. Deficiencies or weaknesses that have not been identified by us could emerge and the identification and correction of these deficiencies or weaknesses could have a material impact on our results of operations. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 