Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our company involves a high degree of risk. Before investing in our company you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the financial and other information contained in this 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline and you may lose all or a part of your investment. We could fail to remain a going concern. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations through commercialization of our product candidates, and we do not have any commitments for that capital. 15 Table of Contents There exists substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2010 we had cash and cash equivalents of $0.9 million and negative working capital of less than $0.1 million. The Successor Company has raised approximately $6.1 million less fees as the result of the issuance of Preferred Stock Series D and warrants in the period from January 1, 2011 through March 1, 2011. We received $0.2 million in subscription receivables from a July financing in mid-March 2011. As of March 24, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $3.4 million and current liabilities of approximately $0.6 million. Our current monthly cash run-rate is approximately $1.0 million. The Company is also planning to purchase manufacturing equipment and incur marketing expenditures within the next three months to prepare the Company for launch post a possible FDA approval. Thus, we will be required to raise additional cash resources in the near future, or it will likely cease operations. We will need to access the capital markets in the near future in order to fund future operations. There is no guarantee that any such required financing will be available on terms satisfactory to us or available at all. These matters create uncertainty relating to its ability to continue as a going concern. We will need additional capital to achieve commercialization of our product candidates and to execute our business strategy, and if we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital we will be unable to achieve commercialization of our product candidates or unable to fully execute our business strategy on a timely basis, if at all. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, the debt securities may be secured and any interest payments would reduce the amount of cash available to operate and grow our business. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, such issuances will likely cause dilution to our stockholders, particularly if we are required to do so during periods when our common stock is trading at low price levels. If we file for bankruptcy, it is likely that our common stock will become worthless, given that there currently exists approximately $7.5 million of debt as of March 25, 2011, which has a priority over common shareholders. In addition, our Series A, B and D Preferred Stock are senior to our common stock, and would be given a liquidation preference prior to the common stock in a bankruptcy event. Additionally, we do not know whether any financing, if obtained, will be adequate to meet our capital needs and to support our growth. If adequate capital cannot be obtained on satisfactory terms, we may terminate or delay our efforts related to regulatory approval of one or more of our product candidates, curtail or delay the implementation of manufacturing process improvements or delay the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities, any of which could cause our business to fail. If we do not obtain additional funding, we will likely enter into bankruptcy and/or cease operations. Further, if we do raise additional cash resources in the near future, it may be raised in contemplation of or in connection with bankruptcy. If we enter into bankruptcy, it is likely that our common stock and common stock equivalents will become worthless and our creditors will receive significantly less than what is owed to them. Our independent registered public accounting firm issued their report for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, which included an explanatory paragraph for our uncertainty to continue as a going concern. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we may likely receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. The inclusion of a going concern explanatory paragraph in our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit opinion for the year ended December 31, 2010 may materially and adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise new capital. 16 Table of Contents We could fail to obtain approval of our lead product, azficel-T, from the FDA. The FDA accepted our response to their Complete Response Letter in January 2011 and set a PDUFA date of June 22, 2011. However, the FDA may not approve our product candidate or may delay our approval. Either of these situations could significantly impact our ability to raise required capital to continue operations. We have finished injections related to our pivotal Phase III clinical trial for our lead facial product candidate, azficel-T, and have submitted the related BLA to the FDA. In October 2009, the FDA Cellular, Tissue and Gene Therapies Advisory Committee reviewed our nasolabial folds/wrinkles product candidate. The Committee voted 11 “yes” to 3 “no” that the data presented on our product demonstrated efficacy, and 6 “yes” to 8 “no” that the data demonstrated safety; both for the proposed indication of treatment of nasolabial folds/wrinkles. The Committee’s recommendations are not binding on the FDA, but the FDA will consider their recommendations during their review of our application, which could adversely affect the application. On December 21, 2009, we received a Complete Response letter from the FDA related to the BLA for azficel-T. A Complete Response letter is issued by the FDA’s CBER when the review of a file is completed and additional data are needed prior to approval. The Complete Response letter requested that we provide data from a histopathological study on biopsied tissue samples from patients following injection of azficel-T. The letter also requested finalized CMC information regarding the manufacture of azficel-T as follow-up to discussions that occurred during the BLA review period, as well as revised policies and procedures. We announced on December 20, 2010, that we had submitted our complete response to the CR letter issued by the FDA regarding our BLA for azficel-T. On January 22, 2011, the FDA accepted for review our complete response submission for azficel-T. Even though the FDA has accepted our response for complete evaluation, there is no assurance that it will approve our product. The FDA, under the PDUFA, has a target six months review window to completely evaluate our response. The PDUFA date is June 22, 2011. To the extent that the data obtained from the histopathological study is negative and/or the CMC information and revised policies and procedures required by the FDA is not satisfactory, we may not obtain approval from the FDA or there may be a delay in approval. If the FDA does not approve our product candidate or, alternatively, if there is a delay in approval, we will be required to raise additional cash resources in the near future, or it will likely cease operations. There is no guarantee that any such required financing will be available to us. Obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is complex, time consuming and expensive, and the outcomes are uncertain. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is time consuming, expensive and difficult. Clinical trials are required and the marketing and manufacturing of our product candidates are subject to rigorous testing procedures. The commencement and completion of clinical trials for any of our product candidates could be delayed or prevented by a variety of factors, including: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study; • delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • delays or failures in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocol from an institutional review board, or IRB, to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective study site; • delays in the enrollment of subjects; • manufacturing difficulties; • failure of our clinical trials and clinical investigators to be in compliance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practices, or GCP; • failure of our third-party contract research organizations, clinical site organizations and other clinical trial managers, to satisfy their contractual duties, comply with regulations or meet expected deadlines; • lack of efficacy during clinical trials; or • unforeseen safety issues. 17 Table of Contents We do not know whether our clinical trials will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all, or whether they will provide data necessary to support necessary regulatory approval. Significant delays in clinical trials will impede our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenue, and could significantly increase our development costs. We utilize bovine-sourced materials to manufacture our Fibrocell Therapy. Future FDA regulations, as well as currently proposed regulations, may require us to change the source of the bovine-sourced materials we use in our products or to cease using bovine-sourced materials. If we are required to use alternative materials in our products, and in the event that such alternative materials are available to us, or if we choose to change the materials used in our products in the future, we would need to validate the new manufacturing process and run comparability trials with the reformulated product, which could delay our submission for regulatory approval. Even if marketing approval from the FDA is received for one or more of our product candidates, the FDA may impose post-marketing requirements, such as: • labeling and advertising requirements, restrictions or limitations, including the inclusion of warnings, precautions, contra-indications or use limitations that could have a material impact on the future profitability of our product candidates; • testing and surveillance to further evaluate or monitor our future products and their continued compliance with regulatory standards and requirements; • submitting products for inspection; or • imposing a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. Because our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflect fresh-start accounting adjustments made on emergence from bankruptcy and because of the effects of the transactions that became effective pursuant to the Plan, financial information in our current and future financial statements will not be comparable to our financial information from prior periods. In connection with our emergence from bankruptcy, we adopted fresh-start accounting as of September 1, 2009 in accordance with ASC 852-10. The adoption of fresh-start accounting resulted in our becoming a new entity for financial reporting purposes. As required by fresh-start accounting, our assets and liabilities have been preliminarily adjusted to fair value, and certain assets and liabilities not previously recognized in our financial statements have been recognized. In addition to fresh-start accounting, our financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions implemented by the Plan. Accordingly, the financial statements prior to September 1, 2009 are not comparable with the financial statements for periods on or after September 1, 2009. Furthermore, the estimates and assumptions used to implement fresh-start accounting are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that the estimates, assumptions, and values reflected in the valuations will be realized, and actual results could vary materially. For further information about fresh-start accounting, see Note 5 — “Fresh-Start Accounting” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Protocol deviations may release the FDA from its binding acceptance of our SPA study design, which may result in the delay, or non-approval, by the FDA of the Fibrocell Therapy. In connection with preparations for FDA Investigator Inspections related to our nasolabial folds/wrinkles Phase III studies, we identified protocol deviations related to the timing of visits and other types of deviations. The possibility exists that our special protocol assessment could no longer be binding on the FDA if the FDA considers these deviations, individually or in aggregate, to be significant. Further, future investigator audits may identify deviations unknown at this time. Accordingly, the possibility exists that although our Phase III studies yielded statistically significant results, the studies may not be acceptable to the FDA under the SPA. 18 Table of Contents Clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety or efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay regulatory approval and prevent us from raising additional financing. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, and to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad, that our product candidates are both safe and effective. We will need to demonstrate our product candidates’ efficacy and monitor their safety throughout the process. We have recently completed a pivotal Phase III clinical trial related to our lead facial aesthetic product candidate. The success of prior pre-clinical or clinical trials does not ensure the success of these trials, which are being conducted in populations with different racial and ethnic demographics than our previous trials. If our current trials or any future clinical trials are unsuccessful, our business and reputation would be harmed and the price at which our stock trades could be adversely affected. In addition, if our Phase III clinical trials related to our lead facial aesthetic product candidate is deemed to be unacceptable or deficient in any way by the FDA, we may be unable to raise additional equity or debt financing that we may require to continue our operations. All of our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of biotherapeutic products. The results of early-stage clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate desired safety and efficacy traits despite having successfully progressed through initial clinical testing. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates is promising, this data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any other U.S. or foreign regulatory approval. Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, FDA officials could reach different conclusions in assessing such data than we do, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, the FDA, other regulatory authorities, our Institutional Review Boards or we, may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. Unlike our Phase III nasolabial folds/wrinkles trial, our Phase II/III Acne Scar trial is not subject to a SPA with the FDA. In addition, we have developed a photo guide for use in the evaluators’ assessment of acne study subjects. Our evaluator assessment scale and photo guide have not been previously used in a clinical trial. To obtain FDA approval with respect to the acne scar indication, we will require FDA concurrence with the use of our evaluator assessment scale and photo guide. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any product candidates, has the potential to materially harm our business, and may prevent us from raising necessary, additional financing that we may need in the future. Since our emergence from bankruptcy we have completed numerous equity financings of convertible securities, and it is likely that we will make additional equity financings in the future, which may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have a significant number of convertible securities that may result in significant dilution to our common stockholders. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have used and it is likely that we will continue to use our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock to fund our working capital needs or to acquire technology, product rights or businesses, or for other purposes. If we issue additional equity securities, particularly during times when our common stock is trading at relatively low price levels, the price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Since our emergence from bankruptcy we have completed numerous equity financings of convertible preferred stock and warrants. The conversion or exercise of the preferred stock or warrants, as applicable, into common stock and the sale of such common stock into the market may cause the price of our common stock to fall. Even if such sales do not occur, the market may anticipate such sales in the future, which may cause the price of our common stock to fall. Furthermore, the preferred stock has a mandatory conversion feature that we may trigger if the price of our common stock trades above $1.00 per share. As of March 24, 2011, if such price occurs and if we trigger the mandatory conversion feature, we would be required to issue in excess of 27 million shares of common stock. The issuance of these shares or the sale of these shares may materially reduce the price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents We have a significant number of warrants and convertible preferred stock outstanding that contain anti-dilution and price-protection provisions that may result in the reduction of their exercise prices or conversion prices in the future. In October 2009, we completed an offering of Series A Preferred Stock and warrants, and, in March 2010, we completed an offering of common stock and warrants. In November 2010, we completed an offering of Series B Preferred Stock and warrants, and, in March 2011, we completed an offering of Series D Preferred Stock and warrants. Each of the foregoing securities were subject to certain anti-dilution provisions, which provisions require the lowering of the conversion price or exercise price, as applicable, to the purchase price of future offerings. Furthermore, with respect to the warrants, if we complete an offering below the exercise price of such warrants, the number of shares issuable under the warrants will be proportionately increased such that the aggregate exercise price payable after taking into account the decrease in the exercise price, shall be equal to the aggregate exercise price prior to such adjustment. The conversion and exercise price of securities related to the Preferred Stock Series A and warrants, the common stock and warrants issued in the March 2010 offering and the Preferred Stock Series B and warrants offering were adjusted due to the Preferred Stock Series D and warrants offering. If in the future we issue securities for less than the conversion or exercise price of the securities we issued so far, we may be required to further reduce the relevant conversion or exercise prices, and the number of shares underlying the warrants may be increased. During the term that the warrants and preferred stock are outstanding, the holders of those securities are given the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock. In addition, certain of the warrants are not redeemable by us. We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital while these warrants or preferred stock are outstanding. At any time during which these warrants are likely to be exercised, we may be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms from other sources. We have yet to be profitable, losses may continue to increase from current levels and we will continue to experience significant negative cash flow as we expand our operations, which may limit or delay our ability to become profitable. We have incurred losses since our inception, have never generated significant revenue from commercial sales of our products, and have never been profitable. We are focused on product development, and we have expended significant resources on our clinical trials, personnel and research and development. We expect these costs to continue to rise in the future. We expect to continue to experience increasing operating losses and negative cash flow as we expand our operations. We expect to continue to incur significant additional costs and expenses related to: • FDA clinical trials and regulatory approvals; • expansion of laboratory and manufacturing operations; • research and development; • brand development; • personnel costs; • development of relationships with strategic business partners, including physicians who might use our future products; and • interest expense and amortization of issuance costs related to our outstanding note payables. If our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, if our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance, or if we do not succeed in effectively and efficiently implementing manufacturing process and technology improvements to make our product commercially viable, we will not be profitable. If we fail to become and remain profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, our business may fail. We will continue to experience operating losses and significant negative cash flow until we begin to generate significant revenue from (a) the sale of our product candidates, which is dependent on the receipt of FDA approval for our product candidates and is dependent on our ability to successfully market and sell such product candidates, and (b) our Agera product line, which is dependent on achieving significant market penetration in its markets. 20 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully commercialize any of our product candidates currently under development. Before we can commercialize any of our product candidates in the United States, we will need to: • conduct substantial additional research and development; • successfully complete lengthy and expensive pre-clinical and clinical testing, including the Phase II/III clinical trial for our acne scar product candidate; • successfully improve our manufacturing process; and • obtain FDA approvals. Even if our product development efforts are successful, we cannot assure that we will be able to commercialize any of our product candidates currently under development. In that event, we will be unable to generate significant revenue, and our business will fail. We have not generated significant revenue from commercial sales of our products to date, and we do not know whether we will ever generate significant revenue. We are focused on product development and have not generated significant revenue from commercial sales of our products to date. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2006 we offered the Fibrocell Therapy for sale in the United Kingdom. Our United Kingdom operation had been operating on a negative gross margin as we investigated means to improve manufacturing technologies for the Fibrocell Process. We do not currently offer any products for sale that are based upon our Fibrocell Therapy, and we cannot guarantee that we will ever market any such products. We must demonstrate that our product candidates satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad will approve the product candidates for commercial marketing. We will need to conduct significant additional research, including potentially pre-clinical testing and clinical testing before we can file additional applications with the FDA for approval of our product candidates. We must also develop, validate and obtain FDA approval of any improved manufacturing process. In addition, to compete effectively our future products must be easy to use, cost-effective and economical to manufacture on a commercial scale. We may not achieve any of these objectives, and we may never generate revenue from our product candidates. Our ability to effectively commercialize our product candidates depends on our ability to improve our manufacturing process and validate such future improvements. As part of the approval process, we must pass a pre-approval inspection of our manufacturing facility before we can obtain marketing approval for our product candidates. The Complete Response letter that we received from the FDA in December 2009 requested finalized CMC information regarding the manufacture of azficel-T as follow-up to discussions that occurred during the BLA review period. We cannot guarantee that this CMC information will satisfy the FDA’s requirements for approval. All of our manufacturing methods, equipment and processes for the active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished product must comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements. We will also need to perform extensive audits of our suppliers, vendors and contract laboratories. The cGMP requirements govern all areas of recordkeeping, production processes and controls, personnel and quality control. To ensure that we meet these requirements, we will expend significant time, money and effort. Due to the unique nature of our Fibrocell Therapy, we cannot predict the likelihood that the FDA will approve our facility as compliant with cGMP requirements even if we believe that we have taken the steps necessary to achieve compliance. 21 Table of Contents The FDA, in its regulatory discretion, may require us to undergo additional clinical trials with respect to any new or improved manufacturing process we develop or utilize, in the future, if any. This could include a requirement to change the materials used in our manufacturing process. These improvements or modifications could delay or prevent approval of our product candidates. If we fail to comply with cGMP requirements, pass an FDA pre-approval inspection or obtain FDA approval of our manufacturing process, we would not receive FDA approval and would be subject to possible regulatory action. The failure to successfully implement our manufacturing process may delay or prevent our future profitability. Even if we obtain FDA approval in the future and satisfy the FDA with regard to a validated manufacturing process, we still may be unable to commercially manufacture the Fibrocell Therapy profitably. Our manufacturing cost has been subject to fluctuation, depending, in part, on the yields obtained from our manufacturing process. There is no guarantee that future manufacturing improvements will result in a manufacturing cost low enough to effectively compete in the market. Further, we currently manufacture the Fibrocell Therapy on a limited basis (for research and development and for trial purposes only) and we have not manufactured commercial levels of the Fibrocell Therapy in the United States. Such commercial manufacturing volumes, in the future, could lead to unexpected inefficiencies and result in unprofitable performance results. We may not be successful in our efforts to develop commercial-scale manufacturing technology and methods. In order to successfully commercialize any approved product candidates, we will be required to produce such products on a commercial scale and in a cost-effective manner. As stated in the preceding risk factor, we intend to seek FDA approval of our manufacturing process as a component of the BLA application and approval process. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to cost-effectively and commercially scale our operations using our current manufacturing process. If we are unable to develop suitable techniques to produce and manufacture our product candidates, our business prospects will suffer. We depend on a third-party manufacturer for our Agera product line, the loss or unavailability of which would require us to find a substitute manufacturer, if available, resulting in delays in production and additional expenses. Our Agera skin care product line is manufactured by a third party. We are dependent on this third party to manufacture Agera’s products, and the manufacturer is responsible for supplying the formula ingredients for the Agera product lines. If for any reason the manufacturer discontinues production of Agera’s products at a time when we have a low volume of inventory on hand or are experiencing a high demand for the products, significant delays in production of the products and interruption of product sales may result as we seek to establish a relationship and commence production with a new manufacturer, which would negatively impact our results of operation. The large majority of our revenue, which relates to the Agera business segment, is to one international customer. Our revenues, which relate solely to the Agera business segment, are highly concentrated in one large, international customer. This large customer represented 72% and 64% of 2010 and 2009 consolidated revenues, respectively. Further, this large customer represented 88% and 87% of consolidated accounts receivable, net, at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. A reduction of revenue related to this large customer, due to competitor product alternatives, pricing pressures, the financial health of the large customer, or otherwise, would have a significant, negative impact on the business of Agera, and the related value thereof. If our Fibrocell Therapy is found to be unsafe or ineffective, or if our Fibrocell Therapy is perceived to be unsafe or ineffective, our business would be materially harmed. Our product candidates utilize our Fibrocell Therapy. In addition, we expect to utilize our Fibrocell Therapy in the development of any future product candidates. If our Fibrocell Therapy is found to be, or perceived to be, unsafe or ineffective, we will not be successful in obtaining marketing approval for any product candidates then pending, and we may have to modify or cease production of any products that previously may have received regulatory approval. Negative media exposure, whether founded or unfounded, related to the safety and/or effectiveness of our Fibrocell Therapy may harm our reputation and/or competitive position. 22 Table of Contents If physicians do not follow our established protocols, the efficacy and safety of our product candidates may be adversely affected. We are dependent on physicians to follow our established protocols both as to the administration and the handling of our product candidates in connection with our clinical trials, and we will continue to be dependent on physicians to follow such protocols if our product candidates are commercialized. The treatment protocol requires each physician to verify the patient’s name and date of birth with the patient and the patient records immediately prior to injection. In the event more than one patient’s cells are delivered to a physician or we deliver the wrong patient’s cells to the physician, which has occurred in the past, it is the physician’s obligation to follow the treatment protocol and assure that the patient is treated with the correct cells. If the physicians do not follow our protocol, the efficacy and safety of our product candidates may be adversely affected. Our business, which depends on one facility, is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and information systems failures, terrorism and similar problems, and we are not fully insured for losses caused by all of these incidents. We currently conduct all our research, development and manufacturing operations in one facility located in Exton, Pennsylvania. As a result, if we obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates, all of the commercial manufacturing for the U.S. market are currently expected to take place at a single U.S. facility. If regulatory, manufacturing or other problems require us to discontinue production at that facility, we will not be able to supply product, which would adversely impact our business. Our Exton facility could be damaged by fire, floods, power loss, telecommunication and information systems failures or similar events. Our insurance policies have limited coverage levels for loss or damages in these events and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause harm to our employees or damage our Exton facility. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that we cannot predict, and could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We are uninsured for these types of losses. As a result of our limited operating history, we may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. We have a limited operating history and our primary business activities consist of conducting clinical trials. As such, our historical financial data is of limited value in estimating future operating expenses. Our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning the costs of our clinical trials, which depend on the success of such trials and our ability to effectively and efficiently conduct such trials, and expectations related to our efforts to achieve FDA approval with respect to our product candidates. In addition, our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue that we may receive from our Agera product line, and the size of future revenue depends on the choices and demand of individuals. Our limited operating history and clinical trial experience make these costs and revenues difficult to forecast accurately. We may be unable to adjust our operations in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected increase in costs or shortfall in revenue. Further, our fixed manufacturing costs and business development and marketing expenses will increase significantly as we expand our operations. Accordingly, a significant increase in costs or shortfall in revenue could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future, which may cause our results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts, stockholders and investors. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the level of demand for the products that we may develop; • the timely and successful implementation of improved manufacturing processes; • our ability to attract and retain personnel with the necessary strategic, technical and creative skills required for effective operations; • the amount and timing of expenditures by practitioners and their patients; • introduction of new technologies; • product liability litigation, class action and derivative action litigation, or other litigation; • the amount and timing of capital expenditures and other costs relating to the expansion of our operations; • the state of the debt and/or equity markets at the time of any proposed offering we choose to initiate; • our ability to successfully integrate new acquisitions into our operations; • government regulation and legal developments regarding our Fibrocell Therapy in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we may operate in the future; and • general economic conditions. As a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make pricing, service, technology or marketing decisions or business or technology acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Due to any of these factors, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts, stockholders and investors in any future period, which may cause our stock price to decline. We may be liable for product liability claims not covered by insurance. Physicians who used our facial aesthetic product in the past, or who may use any of our future products, and patients who have been treated by our facial aesthetic product in the past, or who may use any of our future products, may bring product liability claims against us. While we have taken, and continue to take, what we believe are appropriate precautions, we may be unable to avoid significant liability exposure. We currently keep in force product liability insurance, although such insurance may not be adequate to fully cover any potential claims or may lapse in accordance with its terms prior to the assertion of claims. We may be unable to obtain product liability insurance in the future, or we may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. Any insurance we obtain or have obtained in the past may not provide adequate coverage against any asserted claims. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • diversion of management’s time and attention; • expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, expenses and payment of damages; • decreased demand for our products or any of our future products and services; or • injury to our reputation. If we are the subject of any future product liability claims, our business could be adversely affected, and if these claims are in excess of insurance coverage, if any, that we may possess, our financial position will suffer. 24 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with extensive governmental regulation may significantly affect our operating results. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for some or all of our product candidates, we will continue to be subject to extensive ongoing requirements by the FDA, as well as by a number of foreign, national, state and local agencies. These regulations will impact many aspects of our operations, including testing, research and development, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, quality control, adverse event reporting, import and export, record keeping, approval, distribution, advertising and promotion of our future products. We must also submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to an approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. Application holders must also submit advertising and other promotional material to the FDA and report on ongoing clinical trials. The FDA enforces post-marketing regulatory requirements, including the cGMP requirements, through periodic unannounced inspections. We do not know whether we will pass any future FDA inspections. Failure to pass an inspection could disrupt, delay or shut down our manufacturing operations. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in: • administrative or judicial enforcement actions; • changes to advertising; • failure to obtain marketing approvals for our product candidates; • revocation or suspension of regulatory approvals of products; • product seizures or recalls; • court-ordered injunctions; • import detentions; • delay, interruption or suspension of product manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sales; or • civil or criminal sanctions. The discovery of previously unknown problems with our future products may result in restrictions of the products, including withdrawal from the market. In addition, the FDA may revisit and change its prior determinations with regard to the safety or efficacy of our future products. If the FDA’s position changes, we may be required to change our labeling or cease to manufacture and market our future products. Even prior to any formal regulatory action, we could voluntarily decide to cease the distribution and sale or recall any of our future products if concerns about their safety or efficacy develop. In their regulation of advertising and other promotion, the FDA and the FTC may issue correspondence alleging that some advertising or promotional practices are false, misleading or deceptive. The FDA and FTC are authorized to impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising and promotion practices, which could result in any of the following: • incurring substantial expenses, including fines, penalties, legal fees and costs to comply with the FDA’s requirements; • changes in the methods of marketing and selling products; • taking FDA mandated corrective action, which may include placing advertisements or sending letters to physicians rescinding previous advertisements or promotions; or • disruption in the distribution of products and loss of sales until compliance with the FDA’s position is obtained. Improper promotional activities may also lead to investigations by federal or state prosecutors, and result in criminal and civil penalties. If we become subject to any of the above requirements, it could be damaging to our reputation and restrict our ability to sell or market our future products, and our business condition could be adversely affected. We may also incur significant expenses in defending ourselves. 25 Table of Contents Physicians may prescribe pharmaceutical or biologic products for uses that are not described in a product’s labeling or differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. While such “off-label” uses are common and the FDA does not regulate physicians’ choice of treatments, the FDA does restrict a manufacturer’s communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies cannot promote FDA-approved pharmaceutical or biologic products for off-label uses, but under certain limited circumstances they may disseminate to practitioners articles published in peer-reviewed journals. To the extent allowed by the FDA, we intend to disseminate peer-reviewed articles on our future products to practitioners. If, however, our activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, the FDA or other regulatory or law enforcement authorities. Our sales, marketing, and scientific/educational grant programs, if any in the future, must also comply with applicable requirements of the anti-fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, the federal anti-kickback law, and similar state laws, each as amended. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veteran’s Health Care Act of 1992, each as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. The distribution of product samples to physicians must comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet post-approval requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response, and could generate negative publicity. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our future products profitably. In the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions, there have been legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our future products profitably. For instance, there currently is no legal pathway for generic or similar versions of BLA-approved biologics, sometimes called “follow-on biologics” or “biosimilars,” but there is continuing interest by Congress on this issue and on healthcare reform in general. It is unknown what type of regulatory framework, what legal provisions, and what timeframes for issuance of regulations or guidance any final legislation on biosimilars would contain, but the future profitability of any approved biological product could be materially adversely impacted by the approval of a biosimilar product. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our future products and our business could suffer. Any future products that we develop may not be commercially successful. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates in the United States and other countries, those products may not be accepted by the market. A number of factors may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of our products, including: • labeling requirements or limitations; • market acceptance by practitioners and their patients; • our ability to successfully improve our manufacturing process; • the effectiveness of our sales efforts and marketing activities; and • the success of competitive products. 26 Table of Contents If our current or future product candidates fail to achieve market acceptance, our profitability and financial condition will suffer. Our competitors in the pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology industries may have superior products, manufacturing capabilities, financial resources or marketing position. The human healthcare products and services industry is extremely competitive. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies. Most of these competitors have more extensive research and development, marketing and production capabilities and greater financial resources than we do. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and market effectively our future products against those of our competitors. If our future products receive marketing approval but cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our results of operations and financial position will suffer. We are dependent on our key scientific and other management personnel, and the loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. We are dependent on the efforts of our key management and scientific staff. The loss of any of these individuals, or our inability to recruit and train additional key personnel in a timely manner, could materially and adversely affect our business and our future prospects. A loss of one or more of our current officers or key personnel could severely and negatively impact our operations. We have employment agreements with most of our key management personnel, but some of these people are employed “at-will,” and any of them may elect to pursue other opportunities at any time. We have no present intention of obtaining key man life insurance on any of our executive officers or key management personnel. We may need to attract, train and retain additional highly qualified senior executives and technical and managerial personnel in the future. In the future, we may need to seek additional senior executives, as well as technical and managerial staff members. There is a high demand for highly trained executive, technical and managerial personnel in our industry. We do not know whether we will be able to attract, train and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to effectively promote our brands and establish a competitive position in the marketplace, our business may fail. Our Fibrocell Therapy brand names are new and unproven. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase over time. In order to gain brand recognition, we may increase our marketing and advertising budgets to create and maintain brand loyalty. We do not know whether these efforts will lead to greater brand recognition. If we are unable to effectively promote our brands, including our Agera product line, and establish competitive positions in the marketplace, our business results will be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, the value of our technology and future products will be adversely affected, and if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property against unauthorized use by third parties our business may be materially harmed. Our long-term success largely depends on our future ability to market technologically competitive products. Our ability to achieve commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our technology and future products, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. In order to do so we must: • obtain and protect commercially valuable patents or the rights to patents both domestically and abroad; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from successfully challenging or infringing our proprietary rights. 27 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, we had 10 issued U.S. patents, 3 pending U.S. patent applications, 30 granted foreign patents and no pending international patent application. However, we may not be able to obtain additional patents relating to our technology or otherwise protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain or maintain patents from our pending and future applications, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technology. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use only to the extent that these rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents that we control or are effectively maintained by us as trade secrets. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep a competitive advantage. The patent situation of companies in the markets in which we compete is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The laws of other countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents in foreign countries in which we hold patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in the United States or in foreign jurisdictions would likely result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. Other risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: • the inventors of the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications might not have been the first to make such inventions; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions or similar technology; • the future and pending applications we will file or have filed, or to which we will or do have exclusive rights, may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; • the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; • our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may not be valid or enforceable; • we might not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage; • patents issued to other companies, universities or research institutions may harm our ability to do business; • other individual companies, universities or research institutions may independently develop or have developed similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies and commercialize discoveries that we attempt to patent; • other companies, universities or research institutions may design around technologies we have licensed, patented or developed; and • many of our patent claims are method, rather than composition of matter, claims; generally composition of matter claims are easier to enforce and are more difficult to circumvent. 28 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed and we may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. A third party may assert that we, one of our subsidiaries or one of our strategic collaborators has infringed his, her or its patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and proprietary rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our patent rights or to determine the scope and validity of a third party’s proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that other parties have not filed for or obtained relevant patents that could affect our ability to obtain patents or operate our business. Even if we have previously filed patent applications or obtain issued patents, others may file their own patent applications for our inventions and technology, or improvements to our inventions and technology. We have become aware of published patent applications filed after the issuance of our patents that, should the owners pursue and obtain patent claims to our inventions and technology could require us to challenge such patent claims. Others may challenge our patent or other intellectual property rights or sue us for infringement. In all such cases, we may commence legal proceedings to resolve our patent or other intellectual property disputes or defend against charges of infringement or misappropriation. An adverse determination in any litigation or administrative proceeding to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in our patents being deemed invalid, unenforceable or revoked, or drawn into an interference, require us to license disputed rights from others, if available, or to cease using the disputed technology. In addition, our involvement in any of these proceedings may cause us to incur substantial costs and result in diversion of management and technical personnel. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. The outcome of these proceedings is uncertain and could significantly harm our business. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we or our strategic collaborators may be required to: • pay monetary damages; • expend time and funding to redesign our Fibrocell Therapy so that it does not infringe others’ patents while still allowing us to compete in the market with a substantially similar product; • obtain a license, if possible, in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products or services, and pay license fees and royalties, which may be non-exclusive. This license may be non-exclusive, giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property, or the patent owner may require that we grant a cross-license to our patented technology; or • stop research and commercial activities relating to the affected products or services if a license is not available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our business strategy and the value of our business. In addition, the defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interferences, oppositions and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and elsewhere, even if resolved in our favor, could be expensive and time consuming and could divert financial and managerial resources. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater financial resources. 29 Table of Contents If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, our future products may become obsolete or unmarketable. Our industry is characterized by significant and rapid technological change. Although we attempt to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, research and discoveries by others may make our future products obsolete. If we cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our potential for profitability and financial position will suffer. We have not declared any dividends on our common stock to date, and we have no intention of declaring dividends in the foreseeable future. The decision to pay cash dividends on our common stock rests with our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, unencumbered cash, capital requirements and financial condition. We do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future, as we intend to use any excess cash to fund our operations. Investors in our common stock should not expect to receive dividend income on their investment, and investors will be dependent on the appreciation of our common stock to earn a return on their investment. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay stockholders’ attempts to replace or remove current management. Our charter documents provide for staggered terms for the members of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes, and each director serves a term of three years. At stockholders’ meetings, only those directors comprising one of the three classes will have completed their term and be subject to re-election or replacement. In addition, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue “blank check” preferred stock, with designations, rights and preferences as they may determine. Accordingly, our Board of Directors has in the past and may in the future, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. This type of preferred stock could also be issued to discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control. The use of a staggered Board of Directors, the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock, and the adoption of stockholder rights plans are traditional anti-takeover measures. These provisions in our charter documents make it difficult for a majority stockholder to gain control of the Board of Directors and of our company. These provisions may be beneficial to our management and our Board of Directors in a hostile tender offer and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such a tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of our Board of Directors. Provisions in our bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors, which could require us to direct funds away from our business and future products. Our bylaws provide for the indemnification of our officers and directors. We have in the past and may in the future be required to advance costs incurred by an officer or director and to pay judgments, fines and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which our officers and directors are involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director of our company. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses may be funds we need for the operation of our business and the development of our product candidates, thereby affecting our ability to attain profitability. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or as a result of the perception that these sales could occur, which could occur if we issue a large number of shares of common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) in connection with a future financing, as our common stock is trading at low levels. These factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock or other equity securities. As of March 24, 2011, there were 24,469,099 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. All of our outstanding shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act. In addition to our common stock outstanding, as of such date, we had preferred stock outstanding that was convertible into a total of 26,806,000 shares of common stock and warrants outstanding that were exercisable for a total of 33,701,250 shares of common stock. 30 Table of Contents There is a limited, volatile and sporadic public trading market for our common stock. There is a limited, volatile and sporadic public trading market for our common stock. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance of any liquidity or resale value of our common stock, and stockholders may be required to hold shares of our common stock for an indefinite period of time. Lack of effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect the value of our securities. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Ineffective internal controls over our financial reporting have occurred in the past and may arise in the future. As a consequence, our investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report, including the documents we incorporate by reference, contains certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as well as information relating to Fibrocell that is based on management’s exercise of business judgment and assumptions made by and information currently available to management. When used in this document and other documents, releases and reports released by us, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “the facts suggest” and words of similar import, are intended to identify any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These statements reflect our current view of future events and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as noted below. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Actual events, transactions and results may materially differ from the anticipated events, transactions or results described in such statements. Although we believe that our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will materialize. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward looking statements. Several of these factors include, without limitation: • our ability to finance our business and continue in operations; • whether the results of our full Phase III pivotal study and our BLA filing will result in approval of our product candidate, and whether any approval will occur on a timely basis; • our ability to meet requisite regulations or receive regulatory approvals in the United States, Europe, Asia and the Americas, and our ability to retain any regulatory approvals that we may obtain; and the absence of adverse regulatory developments in the United States, Europe, Asia and the Americas or any other country where we plan to conduct commercial operations; • whether our clinical human trials relating to the use of autologous cellular therapy applications, and such other indications as we may identify and pursue can be conducted within the timeframe that we expect, whether such trials will yield positive results, or whether additional applications for the commercialization of autologous cellular therapy can be identified by us and advanced into human clinical trials; • our ability to develop autologous cellular therapies that have specific applications in cosmetic dermatology, and our ability to explore (and possibly develop) applications for periodontal disease, reconstructive dentistry, treatment of restrictive scars and burns and other health-related markets; 31 Table of Contents • our ability to decrease our manufacturing costs for our Fibrocell Therapy product candidates through the improvement of our manufacturing process, and our ability to validate any such improvements with the relevant regulatory agencies; • our ability to reduce our need for fetal bovine calf serum by improved use of less expensive media combinations and different media alternatives; • continued availability of supplies at satisfactory prices; • new entrance of competitive products or further penetration of existing products in our markets; • the effect on us from adverse publicity related to our products or the company itself; • any adverse claims relating to our intellectual property; • the adoption of new, or changes in, accounting principles; • our issuance of certain rights to our shareholders that may have anti-takeover effects; • our dependence on physicians to correctly follow our established protocols for the safe administration of our Fibrocell Therapy; and • other risks referenced from time to time elsewhere in this prospectus and in our filings with the SEC. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results of operations to differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on our future results. We undertake no obligation and do not intend to update, revise or otherwise publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of any unanticipated events. We cannot assure you that projected results will be achieved. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 