Item 1A. Risk Factors—We have issued certain rights to our shareholders that may have anti-takeover effects.) This type of preferred stock could also be issued to discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control. The use of a staggered Board of Directors and the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock are traditional anti-takeover measures. These provisions in our charter documents make it difficult for a majority stockholder to gain control of the Board of Directors and of our company. These provisions may be beneficial to our management and our Board of Directors in a hostile tender offer and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such a tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of our Board of Directors. 29 We have issued certain rights to our shareholders that may have anti-takeover effects. In May 2006, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of one right for each share of our common stock to purchase our newly created Series C participating preferred stock in connection with the adoption of a stockholder rights plan. These rights may have certain anti-takeover effects. For example, the rights may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us in a manner which causes the rights to become exercisable. As such, the rights may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of our company which is deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Provisions in our bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors, which could require us to direct funds away from our business and future products. Our bylaws provide for the indemnification of our officers and directors. We have in the past and may in the future be required to advance costs incurred by an officer or director and to pay judgments, fines and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which our officers and directors are involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director of our company. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses may be funds we need for the operation of our business and the development of our product candidates, thereby affecting our ability to attain profitability. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or as a result of the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As of December 31, 2006, there were 34,362,731 shares of common stock issued and 30,362,731 outstanding. All of our outstanding shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance of any liquidity or resale value of our common stock, and stockholders may be required to hold shares of our common stock for an indefinite period of time. As a public company, our business is subject to numerous requirements that are currently and continuously evolving and could substantially increase our operating expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which became law in July 2002, has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the American Stock Exchange have promulgated new rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing standards has significantly increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue. In addition, the requirements have taxed a significant amount of management’s and the Board of Directors’ time and resources. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. 30 As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing the company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. This requirement is applicable to our current annual report on Form 10-K and for all future annual reports. Lack of effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect the value of our securities. Ineffective internal controls over our financial reporting have occurred in the past and may arise in the future. As a consequence, our investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 