Risk Factors Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, including any subsequent reports filed on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We will need to raise additional capital in the near future; additional funds may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In addition to our significant net losses in recent periods, we have also historically experienced significant negative cash flows from operations or other uses of cash. As of September 30, 2007 and September 28, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents were $937,600 and $638,600, respectively. To offset the effect of negative net cash flows, we have historically funded a portion of our operations through multiple equity and debt financings, and to a lesser extent through receivable financing. As of September 28, 2008, we had significant debt payable to Longview and Alpha of approximately $17.1 million, and deferred interest of approximately $1.4 million on such obligations, all of which was then due and payable in December 2009 or such earlier date upon an event of default under our loan documents. In addition, we had approximately $2.4 million of short-term debt as of September 28, 2008. Although the closure of the Optex Asset Sale has substantially reduced our principal and interest obligations to Longview and Alpha, we will require additional capital in the near future to repay the balance of such obligations and meet our working capital needs. We cannot assure you that any additional capital from financings or other sources will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, or that the proceeds from any financings will be sufficient to allow the Company to fully execute its business plans. Future equity financings may also require stockholder approval, which may not be obtainable. If we are not able to obtain additional capital in the near future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, defaults could be created under our preferred stock instruments and our viability will be threatened. We anticipate that our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to meet our current obligations, including trade payables, payroll and fixed costs; • our ability to procure additional production contracts and government research and development contracts; • our ability to control costs; • our ability to commercialize our technologies and achieve broad market acceptance for such technologies; • the timing of payments and reimbursements from government and other contracts; • research and development funding requirements; • increased sales and marketing expenses; • technological advancements and competitors’ responses to our products; • capital improvements to new and existing facilities; • our relationships with customers and suppliers; and • general economic conditions including the effects of future economic slowdowns, a slump in the semiconductor market, acts of war or terrorism and the current international conflicts. 15 Table of Contents Even if available, financings can involve significant costs and expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, diversion of management’s time and efforts, or substantial transaction costs or break-up fees in certain instances. Financings may also involve substantial dilution to existing stockholders, and may cause additional dilution through adjustments to certain of our existing securities under the terms of their antidilution provisions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to finance our operations, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. The 2008 Patent Sale and License might not close. Completion of the 2008 Patent Sale and License requires satisfaction of a number of factors, including release of liens held by our secured lenders and the outcome of due diligence by the potential purchaser of our patents. Such factors are not under our control. Failure to close the 2008 Patent Sale and License would potentially jeopardize our viability. Our Common Stock may be delisted by the Nasdaq Capital Market if we cannot maintain Nasdaq’s listing requirements. We are not currently in compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid price requirements or other listing requirements and have historically failed to meet those requirements from time to time. In such case, the market for your shares may be limited, and it may be difficult for you to sell your shares at an acceptable price, or at all. Our Common Stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Among other requirements, to maintain this listing, our Common Stock must continue to trade above $1.00 per share. In December 2007, our stock had failed to meet this criterion for over 30 consecutive trading days. As a result, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(B), we were notified by Nasdaq that we had 180 calendar days or until June 3, 2008 to regain compliance with this Rule by reestablishing a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share or greater for ten consecutive trading days. We did not satisfy this requirement and consequently, received a notice of pending delisting from Nasdaq on June 5, 2008. Pursuant to Nasdaq’s rules, we appealed this determination and requested a hearing to present a plan to regain compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum bid price listing maintenance standard, largely based on a pending proposal submitted to stockholders for the approval of authority to effect a reverse stock split. Nasdaq granted us this hearing and, on July 31, 2008, we presented a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Hearings Panel with the results of our 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders at which the authority to effect a reverse stock split was approved. On August 25, 2008, Nasdaq granted us an extension until September 17, 2008 to regain compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum bid price listing standard. Effective as of 5:00 p.m. Pacific time on August 26, 2008, we implemented the 2008 Reverse Stock Split, which resulted in our Common Stock trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market on a post-split basis effective August 27, 2008. Subsequent to that action, Nasdaq gave us a notice that we had regained compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum bid price listing standard. However, the longer-term effect of this reverse stock split on the price of our Common Stock is unknown. Since the 2008 Reverse Stock Split, our Common Stock has traded below the $1.00 per share minimum bid price listing standard and has traded as low as $0.27 per share since December 1, 2008. We cannot assure you that the bid price of our Common Stock will continue to meet Nasdaq’s minimum listing standard. In addition to the minimum bid price requirement, we must also meet at least one of the three following additional standards to maintain our Nasdaq listing: (1) maintenance of stockholders’ equity at $2.5 million or greater, (2) maintenance of our market capitalization in excess of $35 million as measured by market prices for trades executed on Nasdaq, or (3) net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the latest fiscal year or two of the last three fiscal years. As of September 28, 2008, we had a stockholders’ deficit of approximately $8.5 million, much of which was derived from goodwill impairment of $7.2 million related to the Optex Asset Sale, and we had a net loss of $21.6 million in fiscal 2008. In January 2007, we received a Nasdaq Staff Determination notifying us that we failed to comply with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) as a result of our failure to timely file our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2006. As a result of such late filing and the receipt of such Nasdaq Staff Determination, our Series 1 and Series 2 Notes, our term loans with Longview and Alpha, our $400,000 unsecured subordinated promissory note with Timothy Looney, the former shareholder of Optex, and Optex’s $2 million secured subordinated note with an entity owned by Mr. Looney became in default. We received waivers that cured these defaults, and we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2006 on January 31, 2007. In July 2001, we also received deficiency notices from Nasdaq in this regard, but were able to reestablish compliance by effecting a 1-for-20 reverse stock split on our Common Stock. If we are untimely in filing our Exchange Act reports in the 16 Table of Contents future and receive additional Nasdaq Staff Determinations, we may experience additional defaults in the future under our outstanding debt instruments. After we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K on January 31, 2007, Nasdaq notified us that we had regained compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). In addition, the effect of the restatement of our fiscal 2006 balance sheet retrospectively caused our stockholders’ equity to be below the Nasdaq listing requirement of stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million or greater at October 1, 2006 when our market capitalization was also less than $35 million. This condition was cured by our December 2006 debt refinancing prior to the filing of our fiscal 2006 Form 10-K in January 2007. Nonetheless, the cumulative effect of our restatement substantially narrowed our margin for compliance with Nasdaq stockholders’ equity listing requirements in the future. At December 30, 2007, our stockholders’ equity was approximately $2.3 million, which was below the Nasdaq continued listing standard requiring maintenance of stockholders’ equity at $2.5 million or greater. In February 2008, Nasdaq notified us that we had 15 days to submit a plan to cure this listing deficiency, which we did. Upon review of this plan and our subsequent filing of a Current Report on Form 8-K/A stating that we believed that the April 2008 exchange of $4 million of our Term Notes and related interest for convertible preferred stock had brought us back into compliance with the $2.5 million stockholders’ equity listing maintenance standard, Nasdaq gave us a notice of re-compliance. However, we cannot guarantee you that we will be able to meet this or other Nasdaq listing standards in the future, particularly if we are unable to raise substantial equity capital in the near term to offset the net accounting effects of the Optex Asset Sale, which on a pro-forma basis reduced our stockholders’ equity well below the Nasdaq listing continued listing standard. If we fail to meet Nasdaq listing requirements, our Common Stock could be delisted, which would eliminate the primary market for your shares of Common Stock and would result in additional defaults under our outstanding debt instruments and under the terms of our Series A-1 Stock. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares at an acceptable price, if at all. In addition, such delisting may make it more difficult or expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, your ability to sell your shares of our common stock would also be limited by the penny stock restrictions, which could further limit the marketability of your shares. If our common stock is delisted, it would come within the definition of “penny stock” as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and would be covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. That Rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9, if it were to become applicable, would affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and accordingly would affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. Our 2008 Reverse Stock Split has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our market capitalization. While our 2008 Reverse Stock Split temporarily addressed Nasdaq’s minimum bid price standard, our market capitalization as of December 28, 2008 dropped to only approximately $1.8 million and our market float decreased considerably. Adverse market reaction to the split may have contributed to the decline in our market capitalization that we have we recently experienced. Such reaction and reduced market float and sales volume may result in further material adverse impact to our market capitalization and the market price of our Common Stock. The December 2006 refinancings and November 2007 restructuring of our senior and subordinated debt have significantly increased the dilutive effect of our convertible securities. The December 2006 refinancing of our senior debt increased the amount of that obligation from approximately $5.9 million to $8.25 million at a slightly higher interest rate, all of which became due and payable in December 2009, pursuant to a November 2007 restructuring of this debt. The November 2007 restructuring of our debt also increased our total debt by approximately $1.1 million for a restructuring fee and contingently increased our debt by an additional approximate $1.1 million if we failed to retire our obligations to our senior lenders by December 2009. Furthermore, the conversion price of our convertible subordinated notes and the exercise price of related warrants was reduced in the December 2006 refinancing, pursuant to the notes’ and warrants’ price anti-dilution features, from $26.00 per share to $13.00 per share. If there is a lender debt exchange pursuant to the MOU, additional convertible preferred shares would be issued that would further dilute interests of existing stockholders. Our retirement of approximately 17 Table of Contents $4 million of principal and interest on our debt in April 2008 through the exchange of Term Notes for the issuance of convertible preferred stock also resulted in further adjustment of the exercise price of certain warrants related to the our senior debt to $10.00 per share. Subsequent application of price anti-dilution features of warrants and convertible preferred stock have resulted in exercise or conversion prices ranging from $0.40 per share to $15.00 per share under existing securities and an increase in number of new shares issuable pursuant to warrants and convertible preferred stock in excess of 10 million shares, which may act as an impediment to raising the necessary capital to meet our operating needs and maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our stock price could decline because of the potentially dilutive effect of future financings, Series A-1 Stock, and new preferred stock anti-dilution provisions or exercises of warrants and Common Stock options. After giving affect to the 2008 Reserve Stock Split and assuming conversion of all of our existing convertible securities and exercise in full of all options and warrants outstanding as of September 28, 2008, an additional approximate 3.4 million shares of our Common Stock would be outstanding, as compared to the approximately 3.6 million shares of our Common Stock that were issued and outstanding at that date. During the past three fiscal years, we issued approximately 1.7 million shares of our Common Stock, largely to fund our operations and to acquire the remaining 30% interest in Optex, resulting in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. On August 26, 2008, pursuant to approval of our stockholders, we amended our Certificate of Incorporation to increase our authorized Common Stock issuable for any purpose from 80,000,000 shares to 150,000,000 shares, which further increases the potential for significant dilution to our existing stockholders. Our November 2008 and December 2008 secured bridge note financing resulted in the automatic application of price anti-dilution features in our existing securities, which in conjunction with other issuances, substantially increased the potential fully diluted number of shares of our Common Stock to a number in excess of 17 million. If there is a lender debt exchange pursuant to the MOU, additional convertible preferred shares would be issued that would further dilute interests of existing stockholders. Any additional equity or convertible debt financings in the future could result in further dilution to our stockholders. Existing stockholders also will suffer significant dilution in ownership interests and voting rights and our stock price could decline as a result of potential future application of price anti-dilution features of our Series A-1 Stock, new preferred stock and certain warrants, if not waived. Significant sales of our Common Stock in the public market will cause our stock price to fall. After giving effect to the 2008 Reverse Stock Split, the average trading volume of our shares in September 2008 was only approximately 3,600 shares per day, compared to the approximately 3.6 million shares outstanding and the additional approximate 3.3 million shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis at September 28, 2008. Other than volume limitations imposed on our affiliates, most of the issued shares of our Common Stock are freely tradable. Pursuant to the MOU, we may satisfy financing requirements to exchange indebtedness for new convertible preferred stock, which if converted would result in a significant number of new shares of our Common Stock becoming freely tradable six months after such conversion, If the holders of the freely tradable shares were to sell a significant amount of our Common Stock in the public market, the market price of our Common Stock would likely decline. If we raise additional capital in the future through the sale of shares of our Common Stock to private investors, we may, subject to existing restrictions lapsing or being waived, agree to register these shares for resale on a registration statement as we have done in the past. Upon registration, these additional shares would become freely tradable once sold in the public market, assuming the prospectus delivery and other requirements were met by the sellers, and, if significant in amount, such sales could further adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. The sale of a large number of shares of our Common Stock also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at the prices that we deem appropriate. The December 2006 refinancings and November 2007 restructuring of our senior and subordinated debt have resulted in substantial cash and non-cash expenses, which may adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. In fiscal 2006, we failed to comply with our bank debt covenants several times with our previous senior lender, which resulted in cross-defaults under our subordinated secured convertible notes. As a result, we refinanced our senior bank debt, including the incorporation of our revolving line-of-credit into our senior term loan, to Longview and Alpha in December 2006. This refinancing of our senior debt and convertible subordinated notes involved cash expenses in excess of $2.5 million, including a $1.25 million settlement fee paid to one of our prior lenders, and very substantial non-cash expenses because of the expense of new warrants and the redetermination of imputed interest associated with the subordinated convertible notes primarily resulting from those notes now containing a beneficial 18 Table of Contents conversion feature. Significant cash expenses of the refinancing, including the $1.25 million settlement fee, were recorded as expenses in fiscal 2006, and the balance of the cash and non-cash expenses were recorded as expenses in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008. These financial reporting impacts may have contributed to the decline in the market price of our Common Stock and may continue to adversely affect the future price of our Common Stock. We are engaged in litigation with Timothy Looney, the former owner of Optex, the outcome of which could affect us adversely. In January 2008, Mr. Looney filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of California, County of Orange, against the Company and its senior lenders alleging that the Company had breached its contract to register the shares of our Common Stock issued to Mr. Looney to purchase the final 30% of Optex. Pursuant to this lawsuit, Mr. Looney is seeking partial liquidated damages, declarative and injunctive relief compelling the Company to register his shares and unspecified compensatory damages. In September 2008, Mr. Looney filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court, Central District of California, against John Carson, the Company’s CEO, and John Stuart, the Company’s CFO, alleging that Messrs. Carson and Stuart negligently misrepresented financial information of the Company when the Company was negotiating with Mr. Looney regarding the acquisition of Optex. Pursuant to this lawsuit, Mr. Looney is seeking recovery of damages, interest and costs. Because the alleged actions of Messrs. Carson and Stuart were arguably in their capacity as officers of the Company, we have agreed to defend Mr. Carson and Mr. Stuart in this lawsuit, subject to waivers of any conflict of interests that may arise, and we may be required to indemnify Messrs. Carson and Stuart in this matter. We may also be required to indemnify the senior lenders in connection with the foregoing lawsuits. In December 2008, Mr. Looney filed another lawsuit in the Superior Court of California, County of Orange alleging breach of contract. Mr. Looney alleges that the UCC foreclosure sale of the assets of Optex constituted a “change-in-control” and claims that the Company is required to pay him an earn-out payment of $3.9 million. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to this claim, but this litigation is still at an early stage. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain, and an unfavorable outcome to any or all of this litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and threaten our viability. The existing subordinated lenders claim to be entitled to payment and could take actions to attempt to collect such payment. We have received notices from Mr. Looney claiming that we are in default under our $400,000 one-year unsecured subordinated promissory note with Mr. Looney for the alleged nonpayment of principal and interest and that Optex is in default under its $2 million secured subordinated note with TWL Group, LP, an entity owned by Mr. Looney, for the alleged nonpayment of principal and interest. In addition, TWL Group alleges that the maturity date of Optex’s $2 million note was November 29, 2007 and that principal and interest was due on that date. While we do not agree with TWL Group’s allegations, there can be no assurance that TWL Group’s allegations will not be successful. If we are required to repay any material obligations to subordinated lenders prior to improvement in our liquidity, it could place a significant strain on the our financial resources, may require us to raise additional funds and may make it difficult to obtain additional financing. we are unable at such time to repay such obligation, it could expose the Company to a variety of remedies available to Longview and Alpha that may still be in effect, including foreclosure on the Company’s assets, and, subject to the subordination agreements, may expose the Company to any remedies that may be available to Mr. Looney and TWL Group, including acceleration of their notes. We have historically generated substantial losses, which, if continued, could make it difficult to fund our operations or successfully execute our business plan, and could adversely affect our stock price. Since our inception, we have generated net losses in most of our fiscal periods. We experienced a net loss of approximately $21.6 million in fiscal 2008, including the non-recurring charges associated with the Optex Asset Sale. We experienced a net loss of approximately $22.1 million in fiscal 2007, including the effect of approximately $4.4 million of debt extinguishment expenses resulting from the December 2006 refinancing of our debt and approximately $5.0 million of imputed non-cash interest expense resulting from debt discounts recorded in the fiscal year due to that refinancing and our July 2007 promissory note financing. We experienced net losses of approximately $8.4 million in fiscal 2006, including the effect recorded in that fiscal year of our December 2006 debt refinancing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, because we have significant expenses that are fixed or difficult to change rapidly, we generally are unable to reduce expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. In addition, our present level of contract research and development revenue makes us dependent on support from subcontractors to meet our operating plans and susceptible to losses when such support is delayed. Such factors could cause us to continue to 19 Table of Contents experience net losses in future periods, which will make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. Our government-funded research and development business depends on a limited number of customers, and if any of these customers terminate or reduce their contracts with us, or if we cannot obtain additional government contracts in the future, our revenues will decline and our results of operations will be adversely affected. For fiscal 2007, approximately 36% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Air Force, approximately 17% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with SAIC, Inc., a government contractor, and approximately 16% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Army. For fiscal 2008, approximately 32% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Air Force and approximately 19% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with SAIC. Although we ultimately plan to shift our focus to include the commercialization of our technology, we expect to continue to be dependent upon research and development contracts with federal agencies and their contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our dependency on a few contract sources increases the risks of disruption in this area of our business or significant fluctuations in quarterly revenue, either of which could adversely affect our consolidated revenues and results of operations. Because our operations currently depend on government contracts and subcontracts, we face additional risks related to contracting with the federal government, including federal budget issues and fixed price contracts. General political and economic conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, directly and indirectly may affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by federal agencies. Even the timing of incremental funding commitments to existing, but partially funded, contracts can be affected by these factors. Therefore, cutbacks or re-allocations in the federal budget could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations as long as research and development contracts remain an important element of our business. Obtaining government contracts may also involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, budgetary constraints, political agendas, extensive specification development and price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each government agency also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies. Governmental agencies also often retain some portion of fees payable upon completion of a project and collection of these fees may be delayed for several months or even years, in some instances. In addition, an increasing number of our government contracts are fixed price contracts, which may prevent us from recovering costs incurred in excess of budgeted costs. Fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate such costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. While we have historically not experienced material aggregate cost overruns on our fixed price contracts in our research and development business, we recorded approximately $1.4 million of provision for contract losses in fiscal 2007 for Optex’s production contracts. In the event our actual costs exceed fixed contractual costs of either our research and development contracts or our production orders, we will not be able to recover the excess costs. Our government contracts are also subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in revenue in any given quarter. Although government contracts have provisions providing for the reimbursement of costs associated with termination, the termination of a material contract at a time when our funded backlog does not permit redeployment of our staff could result in reductions of employees. In 1999, we experienced the termination of one of our contracts, but this termination did not result in the non-recovery of costs or lay-off of employees. We have in the past chosen to incur excess overhead in order to retain trained employees during delays in contract funding. We also have had to reduce our staff from time-to-time because of fluctuations in our funded government contract base. In addition, the timing of payments from government contracts is also subject to significant fluctuation and potential delay, depending on the government agency involved. Any such delay could result in a temporary adverse effect to our liquidity. Since a substantial majority of our total revenues in the last three fiscal years were derived directly or indirectly from government customers, these risks can significantly affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to commercialize our technology, we may not be able to increase our revenues or achieve or sustain profitability. Since commencing operations, we have developed technology, principally under government research contracts, for various defense-based applications. However, since our margins on government 20 Table of Contents contracts are generally limited, and our revenues from such contracts are tied to government budget cycles and influenced by numerous political and economic factors beyond our control, and are subject to our ability to win additional contracts, our long-term prospects of realizing significant returns from our technology or achieving and maintaining profitability will likely also require penetration of commercial markets. In prior years, we have made significant investments to commercialize our technologies without significant success. These efforts included the purchase and later shut down of a manufacturing line co-located at an IBM facility, the formation of the Novalog, MSI, Silicon Film, RedHawk and iNetWorks subsidiaries and the development of various stacked-memory products intended for commercial markets in addition to military and aerospace applications. While these investments developed new revenue sources, they have not resulted in consolidated profitability to date, and a majority of our total revenues for fiscal 2006, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008 were still generated from governmental customers. The Optex Asset Sale has eliminated a substantial future contributor to our consolidated revenues. The significant military operations in the Middle East or elsewhere may require diversions of government research and development funding, thereby causing disruptions to our contracts or otherwise adversely impact our revenues. In the near term, the funding of U.S. military operations in Iraq or elsewhere may cause disruptions in funding of government contracts. Since military operations of such magnitude are not routinely included in U.S. defense budgets, supplemental legislative funding actions are required to finance such operations. Even when such legislation is enacted, it may not be adequate for ongoing operations, causing other defense funding sources to be temporarily or permanently diverted. Such diversion could produce interruptions in funding or delays in receipt of our research and development contracts, causing disruptions and adverse effects to our operations. In addition, concerns about international conflicts and the effects of terrorist and other military activity have resulted in unsettled worldwide economic conditions. These conditions make it difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business opportunities, in turn making it difficult for us to plan our current and future allocation of resources and increasing the risks that our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to scale our operations appropriately in response to revenue changes, the Optex Asset Sale and changes in demand, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. After giving effect to Optex as a discontinued operation, our consolidated total revenues in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008 were $18.1 million, $20.4 million and $16.7 million, respectively. In order to absorb the recurring expenses of a publicly reporting company, we will need to materially grow our consolidated total revenues or substantially reduce our operations. Such changes are expected to place a significant strain on our management personnel, infrastructure and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and expand our operational and financial systems, as well as our manufacturing and service capabilities. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and additional capital. If we are unable to effectively manage changes in our operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Historically, we have primarily depended on third party contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a majority of our products and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity or quality products could materially and adversely affect our business. For our existing products, we primarily have used contract manufacturers to fabricate and assemble our stacked chip, microchip and sensor products. Our internal manufacturing capabilities currently consist primarily of assembly, calibration and test functions for our thermal camera products. Subsequent to the Optex Asset Sale, we may utilize Optex’s successor for some of our future manufacturing needs, but we cannot guarantee our success in such a relationship. We have typically used single contract manufacturing sources for our historical products and do not have long-term, guaranteed contracts with such sources. As a result, we face several significant risks, including: • a lack of guaranteed supply of products and higher prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. In addition, the manufacture of our products is a highly complex and technologically demanding process and we are dependent upon our contract manufacturers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields or 21 Table of Contents quality issues. We currently do not have any long-term supply contracts with any of our manufacturers and do not have the capability or capacity to manufacture our products in-house in large quantities. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity with our existing manufacturers, implement manufacturing of some of our new products at other contract manufacturers or scale our internal capabilities, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. If we are not able to obtain market acceptance of our new products, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. We generally focus on markets that are emerging in nature. Market reaction to new products in these circumstances can be difficult to predict. Many of our planned products incorporate our chip stacking technologies that have not yet achieved broad market acceptance. We cannot assure you that our present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis. In addition, due to our historical focus on research and development, we have a limited history of competing in the intensely competitive commercial electronics industry. As such, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture and market additional commercial product lines or that such product lines will be accepted in the commercial marketplace. If we are not successful in commercializing our new products, our ability to generate revenues and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our fiscal 2005, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 audits revealed material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, including the failure of such controls to identify the need to record a post employment obligation for our Executive Salary Continuation Plan, which resulted in a restatement of our financial statements. We believe these types of material weaknesses relate primarily to the size and depth of our accounting staff. We have attempted to address these material weaknesses by expanding our staff and reassigning responsibilities and, based on information available to us as of the date of this report, we believe that we have remediated this condition as of September 28, 2008. Third party testing of our belief, however, will not be conducted pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until subsequent fiscal years. Such third party testing may ultimately reveal that previously identified material weaknesses have not been remediated or that new material weaknesses have developed. Furthermore, we do not presently have the financial resources and infrastructure to address our future plans, which puts us at risk of future material weaknesses. The acquisition of Optex also created material weaknesses in our internal controls, both in terms of the infrastructure and control processes at Optex and in our corporate controls for oversight and management of Optex. We changed the management, infrastructure and internal control processes at Optex to address those material weaknesses and the Optex Asset Sale has eliminated Optex as a source of such concerns in the future. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control processes in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments and a written report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, commencing in our fiscal year 2010, a report by our independent auditors on the effectiveness of our internal controls. During the course of our testing, we may identify other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, in addition to the ones previously identified, which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet future deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we will not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could result in a decline in the market price of our Common Stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future. Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. You may not be able to sell your shares of Common Stock at or above the price you paid for them. The trading price of our Common Stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. Since January 2000, (after giving effect to the 2008 Reverse Stock Split) our Common Stock has traded at prices as low as $0.18 per share in October 2008 and as high as $3,750.00 per share in January 2000. The current market price of our Common Stock may not increase in the future. As such, you may not be able to resell your shares of Common Stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of the Common Stock could continue to fluctuate or decline in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: • the impact of the 2008 Reverse Stock Split; 22 Table of Contents • quarterly variations in operating results; • government budget reallocations or delays in or lack of funding for specific projects; • our ability to control costs and improve cash flow; • our ability to introduce and commercialize new products and achieve broad market acceptance for our products; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • our ability to win additional research and development contracts; • our cash resources and ability to raise additional funding and repay indebtedness; • changes in investor perceptions; • economic and political instability, including acts of war, terrorism and continuing international conflicts; and • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts. The trading markets for the equity securities of high technology companies have continued to experience volatility. Such volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We were subject to a class action lawsuit that diverted management’s attention and resources from other matters until it was settled in June 2004. We cannot guarantee you that we will not be subject to similar class action lawsuits in the future. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights, our ability to compete in our target markets could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that our success will depend, in part, on the strength of our existing patent protection and the additional patent protection that we may acquire in the future. As of September 28, 2008, we held 61 U.S. patents and 16 foreign patents and had other U.S. patent applications pending as well as various foreign patent applications. We agreed to sell most of these patents pursuant to the 2008 Patent Sale and License, and anticipate that we will retain a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the patented technology in our business. We cannot assure you that the 2008 Patent Sale and License will be consummated or that the anticipated license will be on acceptable terms. It is possible that any existing patents or future patents, if any, could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any right granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection from competition. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, services or technology without authorization, to develop similar technology independently or to design around our patents. Furthermore, we expect the purchaser of the patents to be sold in the 2008 Patent Sale and License will be entitled to use those patents for any purpose, including possible competition with us. In addition, we treat technical data as confidential and generally rely on internal nondisclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting trade secrets, to protect proprietary information. We cannot assure you that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information or that others will not independently develop products or technology that are equivalent or superior to ours. Our ability to exploit our own technologies may be constrained by the rights of third parties who could prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or could require us to obtain costly licenses. Other companies may hold or obtain patents or inventions or may otherwise claim proprietary rights to technology useful or necessary to our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be required to seek licenses under such proprietary rights of third parties and the cost or availability of these licenses. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more proposed products or relating to current or future technologies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our technology is found to infringe upon the rights of third parties, or if we are unable to gain sufficient rights to use key technologies, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Enforcing and protecting our patents and other proprietary information can be costly. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information or if we become subject to infringement claims by others, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We expect that the 2008 Patent Sale and License, if it closes, will eliminate our exclusive rights to much of our existing patented intellectual property. However, we may need to engage in future litigation to enforce our future intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. The purchaser of out patents may choose to be more aggressive in pursuing its rights with respect to these patents, which could lead to significant litigation and possible attempts by others to invalidate such patents. If such attempts are successful, we might not be able to use this technology in the future. We also may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce patent rights with respect to future patents. In addition, we may receive in the future communications from third parties asserting that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that any such claims would not result in protracted and costly litigation. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to vigorously defend or enforce our patents or other proprietary technology. Our proprietary information and other intellectual property rights are subject to government use which, in some instances, limits our ability to capitalize on them. Whatever degree of protection, if any, is afforded to us through our patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property generally will not extend to government markets that utilize certain segments of our technology. The government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under government contracts, including portions of our stacked circuitry technology. While we are generally free to commercially exploit these government-funded technologies, and we may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users of the same, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our attempts to do so. We are subject to significant competition that could harm our ability to win new business or attract strategic partnerships and could increase the price pressure on our products. We face strong competition from a wide variety of competitors, including large, multinational semiconductor design firms and aerospace firms. Most of our competitors have considerably greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we or our subsidiaries do, which may make it difficult to win new contracts or to attract strategic partners. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Certain of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition has in the past resulted in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We believe that this trend may continue in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continually adapt to unforeseen technological advances, or we may not be able to successfully compete with our competitors. We operate in industries characterized by rapid and continuing technological development and advancements. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will be required to devote substantial resources to improve already technologically complex products. Many companies in these industries devote considerably greater resources to research and development than we do. Developments by any of these companies could have a materially adverse effect on us if we are not able to keep up with the same developments. Our future success will depend on our ability to successfully adapt to any new technological advances in a timely manner, or at all. If we effectuate additional acquisitions, it may further strain our capital resources, result in additional integration and assimilation challenges, be further dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges and expenses, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. A possible element of our future business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets or technologies that allow us to expand our capabilities and market coverage and to complement our existing product offerings. Optex, 24 Table of Contents our first acquisition under this strategy, initially facilitated our market access, but did not achieve financial objectives. Acquisitions may require significant upfront capital as well as capital infusions, and typically entail many risks, including unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. We had not engaged in an acquisition strategy prior to our acquisition of Optex; we experienced difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of Optex, and the Optex acquisition was also costly and resulted in material adverse impacts to our overall financial condition. We may experience similar difficulties in assimilating any other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially with cash or debt could also put a significant strain on our limited capital resources. Acquisitions may also require large one-time charges and can result in contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline. In addition, we may issue equity or convertible debt securities in connection with an acquisition, as we did in connection with our acquisition of Optex. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders and such securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our Common Stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate or consummate any pending or future acquisitions, or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisition on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our Common Stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate an acquisition. We do not plan to pay dividends to holders of Common Stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to the holders of the Common Stock at any time. Accordingly, investors in our securities must rely upon subsequent sales after price appreciation as the sole method to realize a gain on investment. There are no assurances that the price of Common Stock will ever appreciate in value. Investors seeking cash dividends should not buy our securities. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our key personnel. If we are not able to retain our key personnel or attract additional key personnel as required, we may not be able to implement our business plan and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have adopted employee equity incentive plans designed to attract and retain key employees, our stock price has declined in recent periods, and we cannot guarantee that options or non-vested stock granted under our plans will be effective in retaining key employees. We do not presently maintain “key man” insurance on any key employees. We believe that, as our activities increase and change in character, additional, experienced personnel will be required to implement our business plan. Competition for such personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that they will be available when required, or that we will have the ability to attract and retain them. We may be subject to additional risks. The risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 