Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, including any subsequent reports filed on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have significant debt that must be serviced in cash over the next twelve months. In this interval, this obligation will place priority demands on our liquidity and additional risks if the repayment and covenant obligations of this debt are not fulfilled. As of October 2, 2011, we have a secured subordinated promissory note, with a remaining principal balance of approximately $2.1 million, payable to Timothy Looney pursuant to settlement of litigation, which has existing and increasing monthly debt service obligations through July 2012. We also have approximately $4.3 million of subordinated secured promissory notes, the holders of which can demand repayment any time on or after July 16, 2012. If we choose to allocate some of the proceeds from our various financings to the retirement or service of these notes, such action will substantially decrease our discretionary liquidity and potentially restrict our prospects to increase our total revenues to levels necessary to achieve self-sustaining cash flow from operations. In such an instance or in the event that we are unable to repay our debt when due, we may have to seek additional financing, and there can be no guarantee that such financing would be available on a timely basis, on terms that are acceptable or at all. Failure to meet the repayment or other obligations of our existing debt could result in acceleration of debt maturity, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and threaten our financial viability. There is no guarantee that our Thermal Imaging Asset Sale that is currently pending will close, or if consummated, that it will meet our financial needs. Our aggregate liquidity needs over the next twelve months derived from debt service, operations and on-going product development activities are not likely to be fully satisfied from the initial proceeds that we may realize from the pending Thermal Imaging Asset Sale. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that possible additional royalty proceeds realizable from the Thermal Imaging Asset Sale will replace or exceed the contribution margins that we may be able to receive in the future if we retain our thermal imaging business rather than selling it. Completion of the Thermal Imaging Asset Sale is 14 Table of Contents subject to several closing conditions, including obtaining the requisite stockholder approval and issuance of a Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (“CFIUS”) Section 721 clearance letter. We may be unable to obtain such approval or clearance letter or to fulfill the other closing conditions on a timely basis or at all. Our future operations may be negatively impacted if the Thermal Imaging Asset Sale is not consummated as we are relying on the receipt of the cash proceeds of that transaction in order to fund our near term operations. In addition, to the extent that potential customers and suppliers are uncertain about our future direction, our future financial status and future operational activities may also be adversely affected in the event the Thermal Imaging Asset Sale is not completed. Failure to timely consummate the Thermal Imaging Asset Sale could materially impair our ability to maintain our current operations and new product development activities. We may consider divesting other assets to improve our liquidity or to focus our business operations. To address our financial needs, we sold a large portion of our patent portfolio in 2009, have entered into an agreement to potentially sell our thermal imaging assets and may enter into agreements to sell other assets in the future. We also may wish to divest assets to focus our resources on selected business opportunities. We may not be able to complete such sales, if any, on acceptable terms, on a timely basis or at all, and such sales, if any, could materially adversely affect our future revenues. Furthermore, we have lenders with security interests in substantially all of our assets, and such sales would therefore require such lenders’ consent and not likely generate any direct benefits to stockholders and could materially impair our ability to maintain our current operations. Since 2006, we have engaged in multiple financings, which have significantly diluted existing stockholders and will likely result in substantial additional dilution in the future. Assuming conversion of all of our existing convertible securities as presently authorized and exercise in full of all options and warrants outstanding as of October 2, 2011, an additional approximately 302.0 million shares of our common stock would be outstanding, as compared to the approximately 113.7 million shares of our common stock that were issued and outstanding at that date. Since October 1, 2008 through October 2, 2011, we have issued approximately 111.0 million shares of our common stock, largely to fund our operations and retire debt, resulting in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. Any additional equity or convertible debt financings in the future will likely result in further dilution to our stockholders. Existing stockholders also will suffer significant dilution in ownership interests and voting rights and our stock price could decline as a result of potential future application of price anti-dilution features of our Subordinated Notes, if not waived. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and service our debt, and if such capital is not available to us on terms that are acceptable to us, on a timely basis or at all, our operations could be seriously curtailed. Largely as a result of the Institutional Financing and the Senior Subordinated Notes financings in Fiscal 2011, at October 2, 2011, our working capital deficit had been reduced but was still approximately $4.1 million. We experienced an operational use of cash in the amount of approximately $14.0 million in Fiscal 2011. If we are not able to substantially grow our revenues in the near future, we anticipate that we may require additional capital to meet our working capital needs, fund our operations and meet our debt service obligations. We cannot assure you that any additional capital from financings or other sources will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, or that the proceeds from any financings will be sufficient to address our near term liquidity requirements. If we are not able to obtain needed additional capital, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and we may be forced to curtail our operations. We anticipate that our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to meet our current obligations, including trade payables, payroll and fixed costs; • our required service on our debt and settlement obligations payable over the next twelve months; • our ability to procure additional contracts, and the timing of our deliverables under our contracts; • our ability to earn commissions under the Thermal Imaging APA and avoid any indemnification obligations thereunder; • the timing of payments and reimbursements from U.S. Government and other contracts; • our ability to control costs; 15 Table of Contents • our ability to commercialize our technologies and achieve broad market acceptance for such technologies; • increased sales and marketing expenses; • our ability to divest assets as we deem necessary; • technological advancements and competitors’ responses to our products; • capital improvements to new and existing facilities; • our relationships with customers and suppliers; and • general economic conditions including the effects of future economic slowdowns, a slump in the semiconductor market, acts of war or terrorism and the current international conflicts. Our ability to raise additional capital may be limited because, as a company that is quoted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”), we are no longer eligible to use Form S-3 to register the resale of securities issued in private financings. Even if available, financings can involve significant costs and expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, diversion of management’s time and efforts, or substantial transaction costs or break-up fees in certain instances. Financings may also involve substantial dilution to existing stockholders, and may cause additional dilution through adjustments to certain of our existing securities under the terms of their antidilution provisions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, our business and revenues may be adversely affected and we may be unable to continue our operations at current levels, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Our Institutional Financing has created substantial and continuing non-cash accounting charges that will make it difficult for us to achieve net profit and positive net worth while our new debt instruments are outstanding. The Subordinated Notes we issued in the Institutional Financing in December 2010, March 2011 and July 2011 contain features that are deemed to create a derivative liability under accounting principles. At October 2, 2011, our aggregate derivative liability was valued at $13,352,800, largely as a result of these instruments. Because of the price volatility of our common stock, this derivative liability could increase substantially in future reporting periods if the market value of our common stock were to increase from the $0.095 per share value of October 2, 2011. Such change in the value of derivative liability would be recorded as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations, making it difficult to achieve net profit. In addition, the aggregate recorded derivative liability has already adversely affected our stockholders’ deficit and any future increases in derivative liability would further adversely affect such stockholders’ deficit, making it more difficult for us to meet criteria for re-listing our common stock on Nasdaq or some other national securities exchange. The effect of these derivative liabilities would ultimately be eliminated if the associated debt instruments were converted to equity pursuant to their terms, but we cannot guarantee such an outcome. Our Institutional Financing has also resulted in substantial control by our primary investors over the outcome of stockholder voting and Board decisions. Costa Brava and Griffin, our new institutional investors, collectively control approximately 49% of our presently issued and outstanding common stock and have the ability to convert their Subordinated Notes into additional shares of common stock at any time, thereby increasing their aggregate percentage ownership. In addition, they have nominated four of the nine directors that presently serve on our Board of Directors. Accordingly, Costa Brava and Griffin have significant influence over the outcome of matters that require stockholder votes or actions by our Board of Directors, and the ability of other stockholders to influence such outcomes has been correspondingly diminished. If we are not able to commercialize our technology, we may not be able to increase our revenues or achieve or sustain profitability. Since commencing operations, we have developed technology, principally under U.S. Government research and development contracts, for various defense-based applications. However, since our margins on U.S. Government contracts are generally limited, and our revenues from such contracts are tied to U.S. Government budget cycles and influenced by numerous political and economic factors beyond our control, and are subject to our ability to win additional contracts, our long-term prospects of realizing significant 16 Table of Contents returns from our technology or achieving and maintaining profitability will likely also require penetration of commercial markets. In prior years, we have made significant investments to commercialize our technologies without significant success. These efforts included the purchase and later shut down of a manufacturing line co-located at an IBM facility, the formation of the Novalog, MSI, Silicon Film, RedHawk and iNetWorks subsidiaries and the development of various stacked-memory products intended for commercial markets in addition to military and aerospace applications. These investments have not resulted in consolidated profitability to date, other than the profit realized in Fiscal 2009 largely from the significant gains described above. Furthermore, a majority of our historical total revenues, including in Fiscal 2011, have been generated directly or indirectly from U.S. Government customers. In September 2010, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market for non-compliance with Nasdaq’s $1.00 per share minimum bid price continued listing requirement and commenced trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, thereby causing your ability to sell your shares of our common stock to be limited by “penny stock” restrictions and our ability to raise additional capital to potentially be compromised. With the delisting of our common stock, it comes within the definition of “penny stock” as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. That Rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9 potentially affects the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and accordingly would also affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. Significant sales of our common stock in the public market would likely cause our stock price to fall. The average trading volume of our shares in September 2011 was approximately 45,500 shares per day, compared to the approximately 113.7 million shares outstanding and the additional approximate 302.0 million shares potentially outstanding on a fully diluted basis at October 2, 2011. Other than volume limitations imposed on our affiliates, many of the issued and issuable shares of our common stock are freely tradable. If the holders of freely tradable shares were to sell a significant amount of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We have obligations to holders of our Subordinated Notes that could require us to register shares of common stock held by them and shares issuable upon conversion of those instruments for resale on a registration statement. If we raise additional capital in the future through the sale of shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock to private investors, we may, subject to existing restrictions lapsing or being waived, agree to register these shares for resale on a registration statement as we have done in the past. Upon registration, these additional shares would become freely tradable once sold in the public market, assuming the prospectus delivery and other requirements were met by the sellers, and, if significant in amount, such sales could further adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at the prices that we deem appropriate. Because our operations currently depend on U.S. Government sales, contracts and subcontracts, we face additional risks related to contracting with the U.S. Government, including federal budget issues and fixed price contracts, that could materially and adversely affect our business. Future political and economic conditions are uncertain and may directly and indirectly affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by federal agencies. Even the timing of incremental funding commitments to existing, but partially funded, contracts or purchase orders can be affected by these factors. The U.S. defense budget for Fiscal 2011 was only finalized after a lengthy delay, and it was not until late in Fiscal 2011 that we began to get visibility into the scope and timing of possible new U.S. Government procurement actions to us and the resulting impact of the budgetary delay on our future sales. Cutbacks or re-allocations in the federal budget could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations as long as we sell our products and perform our funded research and development largely for U.S. Government customers. In this regard, the possible impact, if any, of the 2011 federal debt ceiling spending agreement is presently unknown. Obtaining U.S. Government contracts may also involve long 17 Table of Contents purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, budgetary constraints, political agendas, extensive specification development and price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each U.S. Government agency also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies. Governmental agencies also often retain some portion of fees payable upon completion of a project and collection of these fees may be delayed for several months or even years, in some instances. In addition, a number of our U.S. Government contracts are fixed price contracts, which may prevent us from recovering costs incurred in excess of budgeted costs for such contracts. Fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate such costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. In the event our actual costs exceed fixed contractual costs of either our research and development contracts or our production orders, we will not be able to recover the excess costs. Our U.S. Government contracts are also subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the U.S. Government, which could result in a large decline in revenue in any given quarter. Although U.S. Government contracts have provisions providing for the reimbursement of costs associated with termination, the termination of a material contract at a time when our funded backlog does not permit redeployment of our staff could result in reductions of employees. We have in the past chosen to incur excess overhead in order to retain trained employees during delays in contract funding. We also have had to reduce our staff from time-to-time because of fluctuations in our funded U.S. Government contract base. In addition, the timing of payments from U.S. Government contracts is also subject to significant fluctuation and potential delay, depending on the U.S. Government agency involved. Any such delay could result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Since a substantial majority of our total revenues in the last two fiscal years were derived directly or indirectly from U.S. Government customers, these risks can materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have cash payment obligations pursuant to a settlement agreement that, if not satisfied, could put a significant strain on our liquidity. In December 2010, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Release with FirstMark III, LP, formerly known as Pequot Private Equity Fund III, LP, and FirstMark III Offshore Partners, LP, formerly known as Pequot Offshore Private Equity Partners III, LP (collectively, “FirstMark”), pursuant to which we settled a lawsuit between FirstMark and us. Pursuant to this Settlement Agreement and Release, we are obligated to pay FirstMark a total sum of $1,235,000 in eighteen monthly payments commencing January 15, 2011. At October 2, 2011, our aggregate obligation under this agreement was $615,000. In the event that we do not make a monthly installment payment within 30 days of the date it is due, FirstMark may enter a Confession of Judgment in the amount of the total settlement less any payment made by us prior to such default. If FirstMark were to enter and seek to enforce such a judgment, our liquidity and financial condition could be adversely affected and it would cause a default under our other debt obligations, possibly threatening our financial viability. We have historically generated substantial losses, which, if continued, could make it difficult to fund our operations or successfully execute our business plan, and could adversely affect our stock price. Since our inception, we have generated net losses in most of our fiscal periods. Had it not been for the gains from a sale of patent assets, the deconsolidation of Optex due to its bankruptcy and a significant reduction of potential future pension expenses, we would have experienced a substantial net loss in Fiscal 2009. We experienced a net loss of approximately $11.2 million in Fiscal 2010 and approximately $15.8 million in Fiscal 2011. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. In addition, because we have significant expenses that are fixed or difficult to change rapidly, we generally are unable to reduce expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. We are dependent on support from subcontractors to meet our operating plans and susceptible to losses when such support is delayed. Such factors could cause us to continue to experience net losses in future periods, which will make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 18 Table of Contents Our current business depends on a limited number of customers, and if any of these customers terminate or reduce their contracts with us, or if we cannot obtain additional U.S. Government business in the future, our revenues could decline and our results of operations could be adversely affected. For Fiscal 2010, approximately 28%, 20% and 19% of our total revenues were generated from sales and contracts with certain classified U. S. Government agencies, the U. S. Army and Optics 1, Inc., a defense contractor, respectively. For Fiscal 2011, sales to Optics 1 and the U.S. Air Force accounted for 59% and 10% of our total revenues, respectively. Although we plan to shift our focus to include the commercialization of our technology, we expect to continue to be dependent upon business with federal agencies and their contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our dependency on a few customers increases the risks of disruption in our business or significant fluctuations in quarterly revenue, either of which could adversely affect our total revenues and results of operations. If we fail to scale our operations adequately, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our consolidated total revenues in Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2011 were $11.7 million and $14.1 million, respectively. To become and remain profitable, we will need to materially grow our total revenues or substantially reduce our operating expenses. Such challenges are expected to place a significant strain on our management personnel, infrastructure and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and expand our operational and financial systems, as well as our manufacturing and service capabilities. All of these endeavors will require substantial additional capital and substantial effort by our management. If we are unable to effectively manage changes in our operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Historically, we have primarily depended on third party contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a majority of our products and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity or quality products could materially and adversely affect our business. For our existing products, we primarily have used contract manufacturers to fabricate and assemble our stacked chip, microchip and sensor products. Our internal manufacturing capabilities consist primarily of assembly, calibration and test functions for our thermal camera products. We have typically used single contract manufacturing sources for our historical products and do not have long-term, guaranteed contracts with such sources. As a result, we face several significant risks, including: • a lack of guaranteed supply of products and higher prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. In addition, the manufacture of our products is a highly complex and technologically demanding process and we are dependent upon our contract manufacturers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields or quality issues. We currently do not have any long-term supply contracts with any of our manufacturers and do not have the capability or capacity to manufacture our products in-house in large quantities. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity with our existing manufacturers, implement manufacturing of some of our new products at other contract manufacturers or scale our internal capabilities, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. If we are not able to obtain broad market acceptance of our new and existing products, our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We generally focus on emerging markets. Market reaction to new products in these circumstances can be difficult to predict. Many of our planned products incorporate our chip stacking technologies that have not yet achieved broad market acceptance. We cannot assure you that our present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis. In addition, due to our historical focus on research and development, we have a limited history of competing in the intensely competitive commercial electronics industry. As such, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture and market additional commercial product lines or that such product lines will be accepted in the commercial marketplace. If we are not successful in commercializing our new products, our ability to generate revenues and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. Since January 2000, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $0.07 per share in September 2011 and as high as $3,750.00 per share in January 2000 (after giving effect to two reverse stock splits subsequent to January 2000). The current market price of our common stock may not increase in the future. As such, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of the common stock could continue to fluctuate or decline in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: • our cash resources and ability to raise additional funding and repay indebtedness; • changes in the fair value of derivative instruments expense; • reduced trading volume on the OTCBB; • quarterly variations in operating results; • U.S Government budget reallocations or delays in or lack of funding for specific projects; • our ability to control costs and improve cash flow; • our ability to introduce and commercialize new products and achieve broad market acceptance for our products; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • changes in investor perceptions; • economic and political instability, including acts of war, terrorism and continuing international conflicts; and • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts. The trading markets for the equity securities of high technology companies have continued to experience volatility. Such volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We were subject to a class action lawsuit that diverted management’s attention and resources from other matters until it was settled in June 2004. We cannot guarantee you that we will not be subject to similar class action lawsuits in the future. We are subject to technological risk from the developments of competitors, and our Fiscal 2009 sale of patent assets has removed barriers to competition. We sold most of our then-issued patents and pending patent applications in Fiscal 2009. Although we retained a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the patented technology that we sold in our business, the purchaser of our patent assets is entitled to use those patents for any purpose, including possible competition with us. We treat technical data as confidential and generally rely on internal nondisclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting trade secrets, to protect our proprietary information and maintain barriers to competition. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information or that others will not independently develop products or technology that are equivalent or superior to ours. Our ability to exploit our own technologies may be constrained by the rights of third parties who could prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or could require us to obtain costly licenses. Other companies may hold or obtain patents or inventions or may otherwise claim proprietary rights to technology useful or necessary to our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be required to seek licenses under such proprietary rights of third parties and the cost or availability of these licenses. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more proposed products or relating to current or future technologies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our technology is found to infringe upon the rights of third parties, or if we are unable to gain 20 Table of Contents sufficient rights to use key technologies, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Enforcing and protecting patents and other proprietary information can be costly. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information or if we become subject to infringement claims by others, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may need to engage in future litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. The purchaser of our patents may choose to be more aggressive in pursuing its rights with respect to the patents it purchased from us, which could lead to significant litigation and possible attempts by others to invalidate such patents. If such attempts are successful, we might not be able to use this technology in the future. We also may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce patent rights with respect to future patents, if any. In addition, we may receive in the future communications from third parties asserting that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that any such claims would not result in protracted and costly litigation. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to vigorously defend our proprietary information. Our proprietary information and other intellectual property rights are subject to U.S. Government use which, in some instances, limits our ability to capitalize on them. Whatever degree of protection, if any, is afforded to us through patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property generally will not extend to U.S. Government markets that utilize certain segments of our technology. The U.S. Government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under U.S. Government contracts, including portions of our stacked circuitry technology. While we are generally free to commercially exploit these U.S. Government-funded technologies, and we may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-U.S. Government users of the same, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our attempts to do so. We are subject to significant competition that could harm our ability to win new business or attract strategic partnerships and could increase the price pressure on our products. We face strong competition from a wide variety of competitors, including large, multinational semiconductor design firms and aerospace firms. Most of our competitors have considerably greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we or our subsidiaries do, which may make it difficult to win new contracts or to attract strategic partners. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Certain of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition has in the past resulted in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. This trend may continue in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continually adapt to unforeseen technological advances, or we may not be able to successfully compete with our competitors. We operate in industries characterized by rapid and continuing technological development and advancements. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will be required to devote substantial resources to improve already technologically complex products. Many companies in these industries devote considerably greater resources to research and development than we do. Developments by any of these companies could have a materially adverse effect on us if we are not able to keep up with the same developments. Our future success will depend on our ability to successfully adapt to any new technological advances in a timely manner, or at all. We do not plan to pay dividends to holders of common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to the holders of the common stock at any time. Accordingly, investors in our securities must rely upon 21 Table of Contents subsequent sales after price appreciation as the sole method to realize a gain on investment. There are no assurances that the price of common stock will ever appreciate in value. If we are not able to retain our key personnel or attract additional key personnel as required, we may not be able to implement our business plan and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have adopted employee equity incentive plans designed to attract and retain key employees, our stock price has declined in recent periods, and we cannot guarantee that options or non-vested stock granted under our plans will be effective in retaining key employees. We believe that, as our activities increase and change in character, additional, experienced personnel will be required to implement our business plan. Competition for such personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that they will be available when required, or that we will have the ability to attract and retain them. We may be subject to additional risks. The risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 