Risk Factors Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information 11 Table of Contents contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, including any subsequent reports filed on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have historically generated substantial losses, which, if continued, could make it difficult to fund our operations or successfully execute our business plan, and could adversely affect our stock price. Since our inception, we have generated net losses in most of our fiscal periods. We experienced net losses of approximately $1.8 million for fiscal 2005, approximately $4.2 million for fiscal 2004 and approximately $6.3 million for fiscal 2003. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, because we have significant expenses that are fixed or difficult to change rapidly, we generally are unable to reduce expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. For example, we experienced contract delays in fiscal 2003 and, to a lesser degree, in fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of fiscal 2005 that resulted in unanticipated additional operating expenses to keep personnel on staff while the contracts were pending with no corresponding revenues. Such factors could cause us to continue to experience net losses in future periods, which will make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and additional funds may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In addition to our significant net losses in recent periods, until fiscal 2005, we have also historically experienced negative cash flows from operations. In fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004, we experienced negative cash flows from operations of approximately $3.7 million and $4.2 million, respectively. Due largely to our capital expenditures, we experienced a net reduction of our cash during fiscal 2005 of approximately $755,000. To offset the effect of negative net and operational cash flows, we have historically funded a portion of our operations through multiple equity financings, and to a lesser extent through receivable financing. We engaged in various equity financing transactions in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004, which when combined with the exercise of warrants and options in those years and in fiscal 2005, raised aggregate net proceeds of approximately $12.4 million. During the past three fiscal years, we also issued shares of our common stock in various non-cash transactions to retire payables and expenses and to convert preferred stock. The net amount of common stock we issued in that three fiscal year period was in excess of 11.6 million shares, resulting in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition to uncertainties about whether we will need additional funds in the future to sustain our operations, we may need to obtain additional funds to meet our future working capital needs, particularly if anticipated growth opportunities emerge. Accordingly, we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital in the future. We cannot assure you that any additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. Future financings may require stockholder approval, which may not be obtainable. If we are not able to obtain additional capital as may be required, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We anticipate that our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to procure additional production contracts or government research and development contracts; • our ability to control costs; • our ability to commercialize our technologies and achieve broad market acceptance for such technologies; • the timing of payments and reimbursements from government and other contracts; • research and development funding requirements; • increased sales and marketing expenses; • technological advancements and competitors’ response to our products; • capital improvements to new and existing facilities; • the impact of any acquisitions that we may complete; • our relationships with customers and suppliers; and 12 Table of Contents • general economic conditions including the effects of future economic slowdowns, a slump in the semiconductor market, acts of war or terrorism and the current international conflicts. If our capital requirements are materially different from those currently planned, we may need additional capital sooner than anticipated. Additional funds may be raised through borrowings, other debt or equity financings, or the divestiture of business units or select assets. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities or if we consummate any acquisitions, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. Additional funds may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Even if available, financings can involve significant costs and expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, diversion of management’s time and efforts, or substantial transaction costs or break-up fees in certain instances. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to finance our operations, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Our government-funded research and development business depends on a limited number of customers, and if any of these customers terminate or reduce their contracts with us, or if we cannot obtain additional government contracts in the future, our revenues will decline and our results of operations will be adversely affected. For fiscal 2005, approximately 26% of our total revenues were generated from SAIC, a government contractor, 18% of our total revenues were generated from contracts with the U.S. Army, 15% were generated from contracts with the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, and 10% were generated from contracts with the U.S. Air Force. Although we ultimately plan to shift our focus to include the commercialization of our technology, we expect to continue to be dependent upon research and development contracts with federal agencies and their contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our dependency on a few contract sources increases the risks of disruption in this area of our business or significant fluctuations in quarterly revenue, either of which could adversely affect our consolidated revenues and results of operations. Our acquisition strategy may strain our capital resources, result in integration and assimilation challenges, be dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges and expenses, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets or technologies that allow us to expand our capabilities and market coverage and to complement our existing product offerings. Acquisitions may require significant upfront capital as well as capital infusions, and typically entail many risks, including unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. We have not engaged in an acquisition strategy in the past and may experience difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of an acquired company or business. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash or debt could also put a significant strain on our limited capital resources. Acquisitions may also require large one-time charges and can result in contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we may issue equity or convertible debt securities in connection with an acquisition. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders and such securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate or consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate an acquisition. If we are not able to increase our contract research and development revenue, we may not be able to fully absorb our labor and indirect expenses, making it more difficult to achieve or sustain profitability. We believe that our losses in recent years have largely resulted from a combination of insufficient contract research and development revenue to support our 13 Table of Contents technical staff, amplified by the effects of discretionary investments that we have made in an attempt to commercialize our technologies. Since our technical staff is highly skilled and our technologies are generally advanced, we are not able to rapidly adjust our labor-related expenses to reflect changes in our contract research and development revenue base. As a result, we have historically retained a mix of technical staff capabilities that we believe will be necessary to support future requirements associated with our desired growth. This level of staff has typically experienced under-utilization for revenue production. If we are unable to break this chronic pattern through growth in our contract research and development revenue, we will be dependent on growth in our product sales to fully support our expenses, an outcome that we cannot guarantee. Because we currently depend on government contracts and subcontracts, we face additional risks related to contracting with the federal government, including federal budget issues and fixed price contracts. General political and economic conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, directly and indirectly may affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by federal agencies. Even the timing of incremental funding commitments to existing, but partially funded, contracts can be affected by these factors. Therefore, cutbacks or re-allocations in the federal budget could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations as long as research and development contracts remain an important element of our business. Obtaining government contracts may also involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, budgetary constraints, political agendas, extensive specification development and price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each government agency also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies. Governmental agencies also often retain some portion of fees payable upon completion of a project and collection of these fees may be delayed for several months or even years, in some instances. In addition, an increasing number of our government contracts are fixed price contracts, which may prevent us from recovering costs incurred in excess of its budgeted costs. Fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate such costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. In fiscal 2005, we completed fixed-price contracts with an approximate aggregate value of $4.8 million. We experienced approximately $271,300 in losses on those contracts, representing approximately 6% of the aggregate funded amount. At October 2, 2005, we had ongoing fixed-price contracts with an approximate unrealized aggregate value of $2.8 million. While fixed-price overruns in fiscal 2005 were largely discretionary in nature, we may not be able to achieve or improve upon this performance in the future since each contract has its own unique technical and schedule risks. In the event our actual costs exceed the fixed contractual cost, we will not be able to recover the excess costs. Some of our government contracts are also subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in revenue in any given quarter. Although government contracts have provisions providing for the reimbursement of costs associated with termination, the termination of a material contract at a time when our funded backlog does not permit redeployment of our staff could result in reductions of employees. In April 1999, we experienced the termination of one of our contracts, but this termination did not result in the non-recovery of costs or layoff of employees. We also have had to reduce our staff from time-to-time because of fluctuations in our funded government contract base. In addition, the timing of payments from government contracts is also subject to significant fluctuation and potential delay, depending on the government agency involved. Any such delay could result in a temporary shortage in our working capital. Since approximately 83% of our total revenues in fiscal 2003, approximately 82% of our total revenues in fiscal 2004 and approximately 93% of our total revenues in fiscal 2005 were derived directly or indirectly from government customers, these risks can significantly affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The significant military operations in the Middle East or elsewhere may require diversions of government research and development funding, thereby causing disruptions to our contracts or otherwise adversely impact our revenues. In the near term, the funding of U.S. military operations in Iraq or elsewhere may cause disruptions in funding of government contracts. Since military operations of such magnitude are not routinely included in U.S. defense budgets, supplemental legislative funding actions are required to finance such operations. Even when such legislation is enacted, it may not be adequate for ongoing operations, causing other defense funding sources to be temporarily or permanently diverted. Such diversion could produce interruptions in funding or delays in receipt of our research and development contracts, causing disruptions and adverse effects to our operations. In addition, concerns about international conflicts and the effects of terrorist and other military activity have resulted in unsettled worldwide economic conditions. These conditions make it difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business opportunities, in turn making it difficult for us to plan our current and future allocation of resources and increasing the risks that our results of operations could be adversely effected. If we are not able to commercialize our technology, we may not be able to increase our revenues or achieve or sustain profitability. Since commencing operations, we have developed technology, principally under government research contracts, for various defense-based applications. Contract research and development revenue accounted for approximately 89% of our total revenues for fiscal 2003, approximately 87% of our total revenues for fiscal 2004 and approximately 90% of 14 Table of Contents our total revenues for the fiscal 2005. However, since our margins on government contracts are generally limited, and our revenues from such contracts are tied to government budget cycles and influenced by numerous political and economic factors beyond our control, and are subject to our ability to win additional contracts, our long-term prospects of realizing significant returns from our technology or achieving and maintaining profitability will likely also require penetration of commercial markets. In prior years, we have made significant investments to commercialize our technologies without significant success. These efforts included the purchase and later shut down of the IBM cubing line, the formation of the Novalog, MSI, Silicon Film, RedHawk and iNetWorks subsidiaries and the development of various stacked-memory products intended for military, aerospace and commercial markets. While these investments have developed new revenue sources, they have not yet resulted in consolidated profitability to date, and a majority of our total revenues for fiscal 2003, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 were still generated from contract research and development. In fiscal 2005, we discontinued operations of our Novalog subsidiary due to the decline in the sales of its products and lack of availability of economic sources of supply for its products. We are currently focusing on introducing a line of stacked memory products incorporating Ball Grid Array, or BGA, attachment technology because we believe emerging commercial demand exists for such products. We are currently dedicating significant development resources and funding to pursue the commercialization of our BGA stacking technology, a process that involves technical risk. If our perceptions about market demand are incorrect or we fail to successfully complete development, introduce and achieve market penetration for these products, our total revenues may not be sufficient to fully absorb our present indirect expenses and achieve profitability. We cannot assure you that our BGA products or our other current or contemplated products will achieve broad market acceptance in commercial marketplaces, and if they do not, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to scale our operations in response to recent growth and changes in demand, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth in the past fiscal year resulting in a 68% increase in our total revenues to $23.0 million in fiscal 2005 as compared to $13.7 million in fiscal 2004. Our past growth has placed, and any future growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, infrastructure and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and expand our operational and financial systems, as well as our manufacturing and service capabilities. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and additional capital. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. We primarily depend on third party contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a majority of our products and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity or quality products could materially and adversely affect our business. We primarily use contract manufacturers to fabricate and assemble our stacked chip, microchip and sensor products, and our manufacturing capabilities currently consist primarily of assembly, calibration and test functions for our thermal camera products. At our current limited levels of product sales, we typically use single contract manufacturing sources for such products and, as a result, we face several significant risks, including: • a lack of guaranteed supply of products and higher prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. In addition, the manufacture of our products is a highly complex and technologically demanding process and we are dependent upon our contract manufacturers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields or quality issues. We currently do not have any long-term supply contracts with any of our manufacturers and do not have the capability or capacity to manufacture our products in house in large quantities. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity with our existing manufacturers or scale our internal capabilities, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. If we are not able to obtain market acceptance of our new products, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. We generally focus on markets that are emerging in nature. Market reaction to new products in these circumstances can be difficult to predict. Many of our planned products, including our new stacked BGA products, incorporate our chip stacking technologies that have not yet achieved broad market acceptance. We cannot assure you that our present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis. In addition, due to our historical focus on research and development, we have a limited history of competing in the intensely competitive commercial electronics industry. As such, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture and market additional commercial product lines or that such product lines will be accepted in the commercial marketplace. If we are not successful in commercializing our new products, our ability to generate revenues and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our fiscal 2005 audit revealed a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting related to the size of our accounting staff. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control processes in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments and a written report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing the assessments in management’s report. During the course of our testing we may identify other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, in addition to the one already identified, which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we will not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and could impact our ability to use Form S-3 for financings. Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. You may not be able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the 16 Table of Contents past. Since January 2000, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $0.75 per share and as high as $375.00 per share (after giving effect to the 1-for-20 reverse stock split effected in September 2001). The current market price of our common stock may not increase in the future. As such, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of the common stock could continue to fluctuate or decline in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: • quarterly variations in operating results; • our ability to control costs and improve cash flow; • our ability to introduce and commercialize new products and achieve broad market acceptance for our products; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • our ability to win additional research and development contracts; • changes in investor perceptions; • economic and political instability, including acts of war, terrorism and continuing international conflicts; and • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts. The trading markets for the equity securities of high technology companies have continued to experience volatility. Such volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We were subject to a class action lawsuit that diverted management’s attention and resources from other matters until it was settled in June 2004. We cannot guarantee you that we will not be subject to similar class action lawsuits in the future. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights, our ability to compete in our target markets could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that our success will depend, in part, on the strength of our existing patent protection and the additional patent protection that we may acquire in the future. As of October 2, 2005, we held 54 U.S. patents and 16 foreign patents and had other U.S. patent applications pending as well as various foreign patent applications. Five of these patents, covering early versions of our stacking technology, expire in less than one to two years, which may narrow our ability to pose barriers to entry from competitors if these early technologies become commercially significant. It is possible that any existing patents or future patents, if any, could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any right granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection from competition. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, services or technology without authorization, to develop similar technology independently or to design around our patents. In addition, we treat technical data as confidential and generally rely on internal nondisclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting trade secrets, to protect proprietary information. We cannot assure you that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information or that others will not independently develop products or technology that are equivalent or superior to ours. Our ability to exploit our own technologies may be constrained by the rights of third parties who could prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or could require us to obtain costly licenses. Other companies may hold or obtain patents or inventions or may otherwise claim proprietary rights to technology useful or necessary to our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be required to seek licenses under such proprietary rights of third parties and the cost or availability of these licenses. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more proposed products or relating to current or future technologies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our technology is found to infringe upon the rights of third parties, or if we are unable to gain sufficient rights to use key technologies, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Enforcing and protecting our patents and other proprietary information can be costly. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information or if we become subject to infringement claims by others, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may need to engage in future litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. We also may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce our patent rights. In addition, we may receive in the future communications from third parties asserting that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that any such claims would not 17 Table of Contents result in protracted and costly litigation. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to vigorously defend or enforce our patents or other proprietary technology. Our proprietary information and other intellectual property rights are subject to government use which, in some instances, limits our ability to capitalize on them. Whatever degree of protection, if any, is afforded to us through our patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property generally will not extend to government markets that utilize certain segments of our technology. The government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under government contracts, including portions of our stacked circuitry technology. While we are generally free to commercially exploit these government-funded technologies, and we may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users of the same, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our attempts to do so. We are subject to significant competition that could harm our ability to win new business or attract strategic partnerships and could increase the price pressure on our products. We face strong competition from a wide variety of competitors, including large, multinational semiconductor design firms and aerospace firms. Most of our competitors have considerably greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we or our subsidiaries do, which may make it difficult to win new contracts or to attract strategic partners. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Certain of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition has in the past resulted in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We believe that this trend may continue in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continually adapt to unforeseen technological advances, or we may not be able to successfully compete with our competitors. We operate in industries characterized by rapid and continuing technological development and advancements. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will be required to devote substantial resources to improve already technologically complex products. Many companies in these industries devote considerably greater resources to research and development than we do. Developments by any of these companies could have a materially adverse effect on us if we are not able to keep up with the same developments. Our future success will depend on our ability to successfully adapt to any new technological advances in a timely manner, or at all. We do not have guaranteed long-term supply relationships with any of our contract manufacturers, which could make it difficult to fulfill our backlog in any given quarter and could reduce our revenues in future periods. We extensively rely on contract manufacturers but do not maintain long-term supply agreements with any of our contract manufacturers or other suppliers. Accordingly, because our contract manufacturers allocate their manufacturing resources in periods of high demand, we face several significant risks, including a lack of adequate supply, potential product shortages and higher prices and limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy our manufacturing needs in the future. Failure to do so will have a material adverse impact on our operations and the amount of products we can ship in any period. We do not have any long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel. If we are not able to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to implement our business plan and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of our executive officers and other key employees, particularly John Carson, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and John Stuart, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have adopted employee stock option plans designed to attract and retain key employees, our stock price has declined in recent periods, and we cannot guarantee that options granted under our plans will be effective in retaining key employees. We do not presently maintain “key man” insurance on any key employees. We believe that, as our activities increase and change in character, additional, experienced personnel will be required to implement our business plan. Competition for such personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that they will be available when required, or that we will have the ability to attract and retain them. 18 Table of Contents Significant sales of our common stock in the public market will cause our stock price to fall. As of October 2, 2005, we had approximately 18.7 million shares of common stock outstanding, substantially all of which were freely tradable, other than restrictions imposed upon our affiliates. The average trading volume of our shares in September 2005, however, was only approximately 39,800 shares per day. Accordingly, the freely tradable shares are significantly greater in number than the daily average trading volume of our shares. If the holders of the freely tradable shares were to sell a significant amount of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. If we raise additional capital in the future through the sale of shares of our common stock to private investors, we may agree to register these shares for resale on a registration statement as we have done in the past. Upon registration, these additional shares would become freely tradable once sold in the public market, assuming the prospectus delivery and other requirements were met by the seller, and, if significant in amount, such sales could further adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price could decline because of the potentially dilutive effect of future financings or exercises of warrants and common stock options. At October 2, 2005, we had approximately 18.7 million shares of common stock outstanding as compared to approximately 17.8 million outstanding at October 3, 2004. Of the shares of common stock issued in this interval, approximately 0.3 million were the result of the exercise of “in the money” warrants and options. At October 2, 2005, there were approximately 3.8 million shares issuable through the exercise of additional warrants and options that were “in the money” at that date. In fiscal years prior to fiscal 2005, we also frequently sold shares of our common stock in private placements to fund our operations. Any additional equity financings or exercise of “in the money” warrants and options in the future could result in further dilution to our stockholders. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock-based awards will adversely affect our reported results of operations. Effective October 3, 2005, the beginning of our fiscal 2006, any stock-based compensation we grant will be subject to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS 123(R)”). SFAS 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values and does not permit pro forma disclosure as an alternative to financial statement recognition. Depending on our future stock-based compensation practices, the adoption of the SFAS 123(R) fair value method could have a significant adverse impact on our reported results of operations because any stock-based compensation expense will be charged directly against our reported earnings. The impact of our adoption of SFAS 123(R) cannot be predicted at this time because that will depend in part on the future fair values and number of share-based payments granted in the future. However, had we adopted SFAS 123(R) in prior periods, the magnitude of the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 assuming the application of the Black-Scholes model as described in the disclosure of pro forma net loss and pro forma net loss per share in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS 123(R) also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement may reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after its adoption. Our common stock may be delisted by the Nasdaq Capital Market if our stock price declines further or if we cannot maintain Nasdaq’s listing requirements. In such case, the market for your shares may be limited, and it may be difficult for you to sell your shares at an acceptable price, if at all. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly known as the Nasdaq SmallCap Market). Among other requirements, to maintain this listing, our common stock must continue to trade above $1.00 per share. In July 2001, our stock had failed to meet this criterion for over 30 consecutive trading days. As a result, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(B), we were notified by Nasdaq that we had 90 calendar days or until October 2001 to regain compliance with this Rule by reestablishing a sales price of $1.00 per share or greater for ten consecutive trading days. To regain compliance, we sought and received approval from our stockholders to effect a 1-for-20 reverse split of our common stock that became effective in September 2001, resulting in re-compliance by the Nasdaq deadline. However, subsequent to the reverse split, our common stock has, at various times, traded close to or below the $1.00 per share minimum standard, and we cannot assure you that the sales price of our common stock will continue to meet Nasdaq’s minimum listing standards. At December 2, 2005, the closing sales price of our common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Capital Market was $2.17 per share. In addition to the price requirement, we must also meet at least one of the three following additional standards to maintain our Nasdaq listing: (1) maintenance of stockholders’ equity at $2.5 million or greater, (2) maintenance of our market capitalization in excess of $35 million as measured by market prices for trades executed on Nasdaq, or (3) net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the latest fiscal year or two of the last three fiscal years. In July 2001, Nasdaq notified us that we were deficient with respect to all of these additional standards based on our financial statements as of April 1, 2001. In August 2001, Nasdaq advised us that, based on updated information, we had reestablished compliance with the $35 million market capitalization standard. However, the subsequent decline in the price of our common stock resulted in another 19 Table of Contents deficiency notice from Nasdaq in August 2001. At that time, we did not comply with either the market capitalization standard or the stockholders’ equity standard. However, based solely on improvements in our stockholders’ equity resulting from the net gain of approximately $0.9 million realized from the discontinuance of operations of our Silicon Film subsidiary in September 2001, we were able to meet the minimum stockholders’ equity standard and reestablish compliance in November 2001. As of October 2, 2005, we had stockholders’ equity of approximately $8.1 million and a market capitalization of approximately $48.7 million. Although we are currently in compliance with Nasdaq’s listing maintenance requirements, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our compliance with these requirements in the future. If we fail to meet these or other listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted, which would eliminate the primary market for your shares of common stock. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares at an acceptable price, if at all. In addition, such delisting may make it more difficult or expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future since we may no longer qualify to register shares for resale on a Form S-3 registration statement. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, your ability to sell your shares of our common stock would also be limited by the penny stock restrictions, which could further limit the marketability of your shares. If our common stock is delisted, it would come within the definition of “penny stock” as defined in the Exchange Act and would be covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act. That Rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9, if it were to become applicable, would affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and accordingly would affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. We may be subject to additional risks. The risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 