Risk Factors Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, including any subsequent reports filed on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We will need to raise additional capital in the near future; additional funds may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, on a timely basis or at all. Except for fiscal 2009, in which we realized substantial income from the Patent Sale and License, the deconsolidation of Optex’s balance sheet due to its bankruptcy and a significant reduction of potential future pension expenses, we have historically experienced significant net losses and significant negative cash flows from operations or other uses of cash. As of September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents were $125,700 and $638,600, respectively. To offset the effect of negative net cash flows, we have historically funded a portion of our operations through multiple equity and debt financings, and to a lesser extent through receivable financing. Our revenues were reduced in fiscal 2009 partially due to our liquidity limitations, and we had to deploy a considerable portion of the proceeds realized from the Patent Sale and License to (i) satisfy $2.8 million of obligations to Longview and Alpha, (ii) satisfy approximately $686,600 of obligations to certain holders of our promissory notes, and (iii) reduce our payables and improve our access to support from suppliers and subcontractors. We anticipate that we will require additional capital to meet our working capital needs. We cannot assure you that any additional capital from financings or other sources will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, or that the proceeds from any financings will be sufficient to address our near term liquidity requirements. If we are not able to obtain additional capital in the near future, we anticipate that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We anticipate that our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to meet our current obligations, including trade payables, payroll and fixed costs; • our ability to procure additional production contracts and government research and development contracts; • the timing of payments and reimbursements from government and other contracts; • the expenses and outcome of litigation; • our ability to control costs; • our ability to commercialize our technologies and achieve broad market acceptance for such technologies; • research and development funding requirements; • increased sales and marketing expenses; • technological advancements and competitors’ responses to our products; • capital improvements to new and existing facilities; • our relationships with customers and suppliers; and • general economic conditions including the effects of future economic slowdowns, a slump in the semiconductor market, acts of war or terrorism and the current international conflicts. Even if available, financings can involve significant costs and expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, diversion of management’s time and efforts, or substantial transaction costs or break-up fees in certain instances. Financings may also involve substantial dilution to existing stockholders, and may cause additional dilution through adjustments to certain of our existing securities under the terms of their antidilution provisions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, our business will be adversely affected and we may be unable to finance our operations, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. We are engaged in litigation with Timothy Looney, the former owner of Optex Systems, Inc., the outcome of which could affect us adversely. In January 2008, Mr. Looney filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of California, County of Orange against the Company and its senior lenders alleging that the Company had breached its contract to register the shares of our common stock issued to Mr. Looney to purchase the final 30% of Optex. In July 2009, a jury verdict was rendered in this lawsuit requiring the Company to pay $105,000 in partial liquidated damages, and the Company’s cross complaint against Mr. Looney with respect to allegations of fraud was denied. On September 15, 2009, a court order was issued awarding Mr. Looney approximately $834,300 in attorneys’ fees related to this lawsuit. The Company currently plans to file post trial motions and/or an appeal to overturn the jury’s verdict and the related attorneys’ fees award, but the outcome of such actions is uncertain. Payment of Mr. Looney’s legal expenses would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. If and when judgment for the $105,000 of partial liquidated damages and approximately $834,300 in attorneys’ fees is entered and remains unpaid, unvacated, unbonded or unstayed for a period of sixty days, it will constitute a default under a promissory note and cross-defaults under our Series A-1 and Series A-2 Preferred Stock. The entry of a judgment also may cause a default under our accounts receivable factoring agreement with Summit Financial Resources, L.P. In September 2008, Mr. Looney also filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court, Central District of California, against John Carson, the Company’s CEO, and John Stuart, the Company’s CFO, alleging that Messrs. Carson and Stuart negligently misrepresented financial information of the Company when the Company was negotiating with Mr. Looney regarding the acquisition of Optex. Pursuant to this lawsuit, Mr. Looney is seeking recovery of damages, interest and costs. Because the alleged actions of Messrs. Carson and Stuart were arguably in their capacity as officers of the Company, we have agreed to defend Messrs. Carson Stuart in this lawsuit, subject to waivers of any conflict of interests that may arise, and we may be required to indemnify Messrs. Carson and Stuart in this matter. In December 2008, Mr. Looney filed another lawsuit in the Superior Court of California, County of Orange alleging breach of contract. Mr. Looney alleges that the UCC public foreclosure sale of the assets of Optex constituted a “change-in-control” and claims that the Company is required to pay him an earn-out payment of $3.9 million. Trial in this matter is set to commence on January 25, 2010, and the outcome of such litigation is 15 Table of Contents uncertain. In April 2009, Mr. Looney also filed a lawsuit against the Company in the State District Court of Dallas County, Texas, alleging breach of a $400,000 promissory note. As a result of the Company’s filings, the litigation on the $400,000 note has been removed to the Federal District Court of Northern Texas. This litigation and the Company’s defenses are related to the claims and defenses raised in the California litigation. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain, and an unfavorable outcome to any or all of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and threaten our viability. Additionally, the attorneys’ fees and costs of these lawsuits have been substantial, and we expect that such attorneys’ fees and costs will continue to be substantial so long as these matters are pending. In December 2009, we and Mr. Looney engaged in voluntary mediation in an attempt to resolve this dispute. The outcome of this process was a tentative agreement between the parties regarding a possible settlement. However, the detailed terms of such a settlement have not yet been agreed upon, and we cannot assure you that such agreement will be reached. Furthermore elements of this proposal would require certain third party consents, which we cannot guarantee can be obtained. (See Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Our common stock may be delisted by the Nasdaq Capital Market if we cannot maintain Nasdaq’s listing requirements. We are not currently in compliance with Nasdaq’s $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and have historically failed to meet that requirement from time to time. On September 15, 2009, we received a written notice from Nasdaq of our present lack of compliance with this criterion and were given until March 15, 2010 to regain compliance. On January 14, 2009, we also received written notice from Nasdaq of our lack of compliance with a Nasdaq Marketplace Rule that requires us to have a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders’ equity or $35,000,000 market value of listed securities or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for our most recently completed fiscal year or two of our three most recently completed fiscal years. We ultimately regained compliance with this requirement in October 2009. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy Nasdaq’s listing maintenance requirements in the future, or be able to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, the market for your shares may be limited, and as a result, you may not be able to sell your shares at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, a delisting may make it more difficult or expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, your ability to sell your shares of our common stock would also be limited by the penny stock restrictions, which could further limit the marketability of your shares. If our common stock is delisted, it would come within the definition of “penny stock” as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and would be covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. That Rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9, if it were to become applicable, would affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and accordingly would affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. Since 2006, we have engaged in multiple financings, which have significantly diluted existing stockholders and will likely result in substantial additional dilution in the future. Assuming conversion of all of our existing convertible securities and exercise in full of all options and warrants outstanding as of September 30, 2009, an additional approximate 21.7 million shares of our common stock would be outstanding, as compared to the approximately 10.0 million shares of our common stock that were issued and outstanding at that date. Since the start of fiscal 2006 through September 30, 2009, we have issued approximately 8.1 million shares of our common stock, largely to fund our operations and to acquire the remaining 30% interest in Optex, resulting in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. On August 26, 2008, pursuant to approval of our stockholders, we amended our Certificate of Incorporation to increase our authorized common stock issuable for any purpose from 80,000,000 shares to 150,000,000 shares, which further increased the potential for significant dilution to our existing stockholders. Our secured bridge note financing in November 2008 through February 2009 resulted in the automatic application of price anti-dilution features in our existing securities, which in conjunction with other issuances, substantially increased the potential fully diluted number of shares of our common stock. The Series A-2 Preferred Stock that we issued in April 2009 in exchange for convertible notes, resulting in the cancellation of 16 Table of Contents $1 million of debt, as well as the shares of common stock that we issued to the bridge financing investors in April 2009 and the Series B Preferred Stock and common stock warrants that we issued in September 2009 further diluted interests of existing stockholders, such that our potential fully diluted number of shares of our common stock after the Series B Preferred Stock issuance is approximately 31.7 million as of November 25, 2009. We anticipate we will pursue additional financings in the future. Any additional equity or convertible debt financings in the future could result in further dilution to our stockholders. Existing stockholders also will suffer significant dilution in ownership interests and voting rights and our stock price could decline as a result of potential future application of price anti-dilution features of our Series A-1 and Series A-2 Preferred Stock and certain warrants, if not waived. Significant sales of our common stock in the public market will cause our stock price to fall. The average trading volume of our shares in September 2009 was approximately 277,300 shares per day, compared to the approximately 10.0 million shares outstanding and the additional approximate 21.7 million shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis at September 30, 2009. Other than volume limitations imposed on our affiliates, most of the issued shares of our common stock are freely tradable. If the holders of the freely tradable shares were to sell a significant amount of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. If we raise additional capital in the future through the sale of shares of our common stock to private investors, we may, subject to existing restrictions lapsing or being waived, agree to register these shares for resale on a registration statement as we have done in the past. Upon registration, these additional shares would become freely tradable once sold in the public market, assuming the prospectus delivery and other requirements were met by the sellers, and, if significant in amount, such sales could further adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at the prices that we deem appropriate. Our 2008 Reverse Stock Split has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our market capitalization. While our 2008 Reverse Stock Split temporarily addressed Nasdaq’s minimum bid price standard, our market capitalization as of September 27, 2009 dropped to only approximately $4.7 million and our market float decreased considerably. Adverse market reaction to the split may have contributed to the decline in our market capitalization that we have recently experienced. Such reaction and reduced market float and sales volume may result in further material adverse impact to our market capitalization and the market price of our common stock. We may be required to conduct an additional reverse stock split in fiscal 2010 to maintain our Nasdaq listing. We have historically generated substantial losses, which, if continued, could make it difficult to fund our operations or successfully execute our business plan, and could adversely affect our stock price. Since our inception, we have generated net losses in most of our fiscal periods. We experienced a net loss of approximately $21.6 million for fiscal 2008, including the non-recurring charges associated with the retirement of $15 million of debt owed to Longview and Alpha as a result of the Optex Asset Sale. Had it not been for the gains from the Patent Sale and License, the deconsolidation of Optex due to its bankruptcy and a significant reduction of potential future pension expenses, we would have experienced a substantial net loss in fiscal 2009 as well. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. In addition, because we have significant expenses that are fixed or difficult to change rapidly, we generally are unable to reduce expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. Our present level of contract research and development revenue also makes us dependent on support from subcontractors to meet our operating plans and susceptible to losses when such support is delayed. Such factors could cause us to continue to experience net losses in future periods, which will make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our government-funded research and development business depends on a limited number of customers, and if any of these customers terminate or reduce their contracts with us, or if we cannot obtain additional government contracts in the future, our revenues will decline and our results of operations will be adversely affected. For fiscal 2008, approximately 32% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Air Force and approximately 19% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with SAIC, a government contractor. For fiscal 2009, approximately 33% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Air Force and approximately 16% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Army. Although we ultimately plan to shift our focus to include the commercialization of our technology, we expect to continue to be dependent 17 Table of Contents upon research and development contracts with federal agencies and their contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our dependency on a few contract sources increases the risks of disruption in this area of our business or significant fluctuations in quarterly revenue, either of which could adversely affect our consolidated revenues and results of operations. Because our operations currently depend on government contracts and subcontracts, we face additional risks related to contracting with the federal government, including federal budget issues and fixed price contracts, that could materially and adversely affect our business. General political and economic conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, directly and indirectly may affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by federal agencies. Even the timing of incremental funding commitments to existing, but partially funded, contracts can be affected by these factors. Therefore, cutbacks or re-allocations in the federal budget could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations as long as research and development contracts remain an important element of our business. Obtaining government contracts may also involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, budgetary constraints, political agendas, extensive specification development and price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each government agency also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies. Governmental agencies also often retain some portion of fees payable upon completion of a project and collection of these fees may be delayed for several months or even years, in some instances. In addition, an increasing number of our government contracts are fixed price contracts, which may prevent us from recovering costs incurred in excess of budgeted costs. Fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate such costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. In the event our actual costs exceed fixed contractual costs of either our research and development contracts or our production orders, we will not be able to recover the excess costs. Our government contracts are also subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in revenue in any given quarter. Although government contracts have provisions providing for the reimbursement of costs associated with termination, the termination of a material contract at a time when our funded backlog does not permit redeployment of our staff could result in reductions of employees. We have in the past chosen to incur excess overhead in order to retain trained employees during delays in contract funding. We also have had to reduce our staff from time-to-time because of fluctuations in our funded government contract base. In addition, the timing of payments from government contracts is also subject to significant fluctuation and potential delay, depending on the government agency involved. Any such delay could result in a temporary adverse effect to our liquidity. Since a substantial majority of our total revenues in the last two fiscal years were derived directly or indirectly from government customers, these risks can significantly affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to commercialize our technology, we may not be able to increase our revenues or achieve or sustain profitability. Since commencing operations, we have developed technology, principally under government research contracts, for various defense-based applications. However, since our margins on government contracts are generally limited, and our revenues from such contracts are tied to government budget cycles and influenced by numerous political and economic factors beyond our control, and are subject to our ability to win additional contracts, our long-term prospects of realizing significant returns from our technology or achieving and maintaining profitability will likely also require penetration of commercial markets. In prior years, we have made significant investments to commercialize our technologies without significant success. These efforts included the purchase and later shut down of a manufacturing line co-located at an IBM facility, the formation of the Novalog, MSI, Silicon Film, RedHawk and iNetWorks subsidiaries and the development of various stacked-memory products intended for commercial markets in addition to military and aerospace applications. These investments have not resulted in consolidated profitability to date, other than the profit realized in fiscal 2009 largely from the significant gains described above, and a majority of our total revenues for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009 were still generated from governmental customers. The Optex Asset Sale has eliminated a substantial future contributor to our consolidated revenues. The significant military operations in the Middle East or elsewhere may require diversions of government research and development funding, thereby causing disruptions to our contracts or otherwise adversely impact our 18 Table of Contents revenues. In the near term, the funding of significant U.S. military operations may cause disruptions in funding of government contracts. Since military operations of substantial magnitude are not routinely included in U.S. defense budgets, supplemental legislative funding actions are required to finance such operations. Even when such legislation is enacted, it may not be adequate for ongoing operations, causing other defense funding sources to be temporarily or permanently diverted. Such diversion could produce interruptions in funding or delays in receipt of our research and development contracts, causing disruptions and adverse effects to our operations. In addition, concerns about international conflicts and the effects of terrorist and other military activity have resulted in unsettled worldwide economic conditions. These conditions make it difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business opportunities, in turn making it difficult for us to plan our current and future allocation of resources and increasing the risks that our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to scale our operations adequately, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. After giving effect to Optex as a discontinued operation, our consolidated total revenues in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009 were $16.7 million and $11.5 million, respectively. In order to absorb the recurring expenses of a publicly reporting company and remain profitable, we will need to materially grow our consolidated total revenues and/or substantially reduce our operating expenses. Such changes are expected to place a significant strain on our management personnel, infrastructure and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and expand our operational and financial systems, as well as our manufacturing and service capabilities. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and additional capital. If we are unable to effectively manage changes in our operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Historically, we have primarily depended on third party contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a majority of our products and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity or quality products could materially and adversely affect our business. For our existing products, we primarily have used contract manufacturers to fabricate and assemble our stacked chip, microchip and sensor products. Our internal manufacturing capabilities currently consist primarily of assembly, calibration and test functions for our thermal camera products. We have typically used single contract manufacturing sources for our historical products and do not have long-term, guaranteed contracts with such sources. As a result, we face several significant risks, including: • a lack of guaranteed supply of products and higher prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. In addition, the manufacture of our products is a highly complex and technologically demanding process and we are dependent upon our contract manufacturers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields or quality issues. We currently do not have any long-term supply contracts with any of our manufacturers and do not have the capability or capacity to manufacture our products in-house in large quantities. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity with our existing manufacturers, implement manufacturing of some of our new products at other contract manufacturers or scale our internal capabilities, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. If we are not able to obtain broad market acceptance of our new and existing products, our revenues and results of operations will be adversely affected. We generally focus on markets that are emerging in nature. Market reaction to new products in these circumstances can be difficult to predict. Many of our planned products incorporate our chip stacking technologies that have not yet achieved broad market acceptance. We cannot assure you that our present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis. In addition, due to our historical focus on research and development, we have a limited history of competing in the intensely competitive commercial electronics industry. As such, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture and market additional commercial product lines or that such product lines will be accepted in the commercial marketplace. If we are not successful in commercializing our new products, our ability to generate revenues and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our fiscal 2005, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 audits revealed material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, including the failure of such controls to identify the need to record a post employment obligation for our Executive Salary Continuation Plan, which resulted in a restatement of our financial statements. We believe these types of material weaknesses relate primarily to the size and depth of our accounting staff. We have attempted to address these material weaknesses by expanding our staff and reassigning responsibilities and, based on information available to us as of the date of this report, we believe that we have remediated this condition as of September 28, 2008 and September 27, 2009. Third party testing of our belief, however, will not be conducted pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until subsequent fiscal years. Such third party testing may ultimately reveal that previously identified material weaknesses have not been remediated or that new material weaknesses have developed. Furthermore, we do not presently have the financial resources and infrastructure to address our future plans, which puts us at risk of future material weaknesses. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control processes in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments and a written report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, commencing in our fiscal year 2010, a report by our independent auditors on the effectiveness of our internal controls. During the course of our testing, we may identify other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, in addition to the ones previously identified, which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet future deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we will not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future. Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. Since January 2000, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $0.11 per share in March 2009 and as high as $3,750.00 per share in January 2000 (after giving effect to two reverse stock splits subsequent to January 2000). The current market price of our common stock may not increase in the future. As such, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of the common stock could continue to fluctuate or decline in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: • the impact and outcome of pending litigation; • our cash resources and ability to raise additional funding and repay indebtedness; • our ability to demonstrate compliance with Nasdaq’s listing maintenance requirements; • quarterly variations in operating results; • government budget reallocations or delays in or lack of funding for specific projects; • our ability to control costs and improve cash flow; • our ability to introduce and commercialize new products and achieve broad market acceptance for our products; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • our cash resources and ability to raise additional funding and repay indebtedness; • changes in investor perceptions; • economic and political instability, including acts of war, terrorism and continuing international conflicts; and • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts. 20 Table of Contents The trading markets for the equity securities of high technology companies have continued to experience volatility. Such volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We were subject to a class action lawsuit that diverted management’s attention and resources from other matters until it was settled in June 2004. We cannot guarantee you that we will not be subject to similar class action lawsuits in the future. Our Patent Sale and License has removed barriers to competition. We sold most of our patents pursuant to the Patent Sale and License. Although we retain a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the patented technology that we sold in our business, the purchaser of our patent assets is entitled to use those patents for any purpose, including possible competition with us. We treat technical data as confidential and generally rely on internal nondisclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting trade secrets, to protect our proprietary information and maintain barriers to competition. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information or that others will not independently develop products or technology that are equivalent or superior to ours. Our ability to exploit our own technologies may be constrained by the rights of third parties who could prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or could require us to obtain costly licenses. Other companies may hold or obtain patents or inventions or may otherwise claim proprietary rights to technology useful or necessary to our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be required to seek licenses under such proprietary rights of third parties and the cost or availability of these licenses. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more proposed products or relating to current or future technologies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our technology is found to infringe upon the rights of third parties, or if we are unable to gain sufficient rights to use key technologies, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Enforcing and protecting patents and other proprietary information can be costly. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information or if we become subject to infringement claims by others, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may need to engage in future litigation to enforce our future intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. The purchaser of our patents may choose to be more aggressive in pursuing its rights with respect to these patents, which could lead to significant litigation and possible attempts by others to invalidate such patents. If such attempts are successful, we might not be able to use this technology in the future. We also may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce patent rights with respect to future patents. In addition, we may receive in the future communications from third parties asserting that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that any such claims would not result in protracted and costly litigation. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to vigorously defend our proprietary information. Our proprietary information and other intellectual property rights are subject to government use which, in some instances, limits our ability to capitalize on them. Whatever degree of protection, if any, is afforded to us through patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property generally will not extend to government markets that utilize certain segments of our technology. The government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under government contracts, including portions of our stacked circuitry technology. While we are generally free to commercially exploit these government-funded technologies, and we may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users of the same, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our attempts to do so. We are subject to significant competition that could harm our ability to win new business or attract strategic partnerships and could increase the price pressure on our products. We face strong competition from a wide variety of competitors, including large, multinational semiconductor design firms and aerospace firms. Most of our 21 Table of Contents competitors have considerably greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we or our subsidiaries do, which may make it difficult to win new contracts or to attract strategic partners. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Certain of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition has in the past resulted in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We believe that this trend may continue in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continually adapt to unforeseen technological advances, or we may not be able to successfully compete with our competitors. We operate in industries characterized by rapid and continuing technological development and advancements. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will be required to devote substantial resources to improve already technologically complex products. Many companies in these industries devote considerably greater resources to research and development than we do. Developments by any of these companies could have a materially adverse effect on us if we are not able to keep up with the same developments. Our future success will depend on our ability to successfully adapt to any new technological advances in a timely manner, or at all. If we effectuate additional acquisitions, it may further strain our capital resources, result in additional integration and assimilation challenges, be further dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges and expenses, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Our future business strategy may involve expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets or technologies that allow us to expand our capabilities and market coverage and to complement our existing product offerings. Optex, our first acquisition under this strategy, initially facilitated our market access, but did not achieve financial objectives. Acquisitions may require significant upfront capital as well as capital infusions, and typically entail many risks, including unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. We had not engaged in an acquisition strategy prior to our acquisition of Optex; we experienced difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of Optex, and the Optex acquisition was also costly and resulted in material adverse impacts to our overall financial condition. We may experience similar difficulties in assimilating any other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially with cash or debt could also put a significant strain on our limited capital resources. Acquisitions may also require large one-time charges and can result in contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we may issue equity or convertible debt securities in connection with an acquisition, as we did in connection with our acquisition of Optex. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders and such securities could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate or consummate any pending or future acquisitions, or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisition on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate an acquisition. 22 Table of Contents We do not plan to pay dividends to holders of common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to the holders of the common stock at any time. Accordingly, investors in our securities must rely upon subsequent sales after price appreciation as the sole method to realize a gain on investment. There are no assurances that the price of common stock will ever appreciate in value. Investors seeking cash dividends should not buy our securities. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our key personnel. If we are not able to retain our key personnel or attract additional key personnel as required, we may not be able to implement our business plan and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have adopted employee equity incentive plans designed to attract and retain key employees, our stock price has declined in recent periods, and we cannot guarantee that options or non-vested stock granted under our plans will be effective in retaining key employees. We do not presently maintain “key man” insurance on any key employees. We believe that, as our activities increase and change in character, additional, experienced personnel will be required to implement our business plan. Competition for such personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that they will be available when required, or that we will have the ability to attract and retain them. We may be subject to additional risks. The risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 