ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including any subsequent filings. We have attempted to group risk factors by category and not in order of significance or level of risk. Risks described under one category may also apply to another category, and you should carefully read the entire risk factors section, not just any one category of risk factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Company We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and service our debt, and if such capital is not available to us on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all, our operations could be seriously curtailed. We will require additional capital to meet our working capital needs, fund our operations and meet our debt service obligations. No assurances can be given that any additional capital from financings or other sources will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, or that the proceeds from any financings will be sufficient to address our near term liquidity requirements. If we are unable to obtain needed additional capital, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and we may be forced to curtail our operations. -4- Table of Contents We anticipate that our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • our ability to meet our current obligations, including trade payables, payroll and fixed costs; • our required service and settlement on our debt and capital leases payable over the next twelve months; • our ability to obtain revenue, and the timing of our deliverables to earn the revenue; • our ability to attract investors by demonstrating our technology’s proof point through the generation of sales revenue; • the timing of payments from our customers; • our ability to control costs; • our ability to commercialize our technologies and achieve broader market acceptance for those technologies; • our ability to divest assets as we deem necessary; • technological advancements and competitors’ responses to our products; • our relationships with customers and suppliers; • general economic conditions including the effects of potential future economic slowdowns, acts of war or terrorism and the current international conflicts; and • general regulatory conditions that can impact our ability to sell cyber security technologies. Our ability to raise additional capital may be limited because, as a company that is quoted on the OTCQB marketplace (“OTCQB”), we are no longer eligible to use Form S-3 to register the resale of securities issued in private financings. Even if available, financings can involve significant costs and expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, diversion of management’s time and efforts, or substantial transaction costs or break-up fees in certain instances. Financings may also involve substantial dilution to existing stockholders, and may cause additional dilution through adjustments to certain of our existing securities under the terms of their anti-dilution provisions. If adequate funds are unavailable on a timely basis on acceptable terms, or at all, our business and revenues may be adversely affected and we may be unable to continue our operations at current levels, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, capitalize on our future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Although we have commitments from our debt holders to exchange their debts into securities offered in the Series D Offering, definitive documents have yet to be signed and we have no assurances that all debt holders will execute this exchange. If these debt holders do not execute the exchange, we may have significant debt that must be serviced in cash over the next twelve months, which places priority demands on our liquidity and raises additional risks of default. Our total debt liabilities were approximately $34.7 million as of September 30, 2013, inclusive of discounts of $9.2 million. Approximately $14.0 million of such debts were due and payable as of September 30, 2013, of which approximately $12.1 million are held by our major stockholders, Costa Brava Partnership III L.P. (“Costa Brava”) and the Griffin Fund LP (“Griffin”) (the “Stockholder Notes”). If any of the debt holders elected not to convert into the Series D Preferred, they can demand repayment. If we choose to allocate some of our currently available cash or proceeds from future financings to the repayment of the Stockholder Notes, our working capital will be materially restricted. Certain holders of the Company’s senior subordinated debt in the principal amount of approximately $1.0 million have notified the Company that such debt was due and payable as of November 1, 2013. Although the Company disputes this position, in the event the Company cannot successfully defend its position, the Company may be considered in default on such debt. -5- Table of Contents On December 6, 2013, a certain holder of Senior Subordinated Convertible Promissory Notes (the “Notes”) who chose not to convert into the Series D Offering (the “Non-Converting Note Holder”), totaling approximately $1.0 million, notified the Company that they interpreted the Notes to require the Company to use the net proceeds from the Qualified Financing dated November 1, 2013, to repay certain outstanding debts. In August 2013, however, the Company and the Non-Converting Note Holder amended the terms of the Notes to extend the maturity date of the Notes to January 31, 2014 (the “Amendment”), regardless of the consummation of the Qualified Financing. The Non-Converting Note Holder has objected to the Company’s interpretation of the Amendment, and has taken the position that the Notes are currently due and payable from proceeds of the Qualified Financing, notwithstanding the Company’s position that Amendment extended the maturity date of the Notes to January 31, 2014. Although the Company disputes the Non-Converting Note Holder's position, and believes that the Amendment extended the maturity date of the Notes to January 31, 2014, we may not prevail. In the event we are unable to reach an accommodation or negotiated settlement with the Note Holders, and are otherwise unsuccessful in defending our position, the Notes may become immediately due and payable as of November 1, 2013, in which case we may be considered in default on the Notes. In the event that we are unable to repay our debt when due, we may have to seek additional financing, and no assurances can be given that such financing would be available on a timely basis, on terms that are acceptable or at all. Failure to meet the repayment or other obligations of our existing debt upon demand by any of our creditors on or before its due date could have a material adverse affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and threaten our financial viability. We may consider divesting certain assets in the future to improve our liquidity to focus our business operations. To address our working capital needs, we sold a large portion of our patent portfolio in 2009 and assets used in our Thermal Imaging Business in January 2012. We may enter into agreements to sell other assets in the future. We also may wish to divest assets to focus our resources on selected business opportunities, as we did in March 2013 with the cessation of the Government Business and focus on our cyber-security business. We may not be able to complete other divestitures, if any, on acceptable terms, on a timely basis or at all, and such sales, if any, could materially adversely affect our future revenues. Furthermore, we have lenders with security interests in substantially all of our assets, and such sales would therefore require such lenders’ consent and are unlikely to generate any direct benefits to stockholders and could materially impair our ability to maintain our current operations. We have historically generated substantial losses, which, if continued, could make it difficult to fund our operations or successfully execute our business plan, and could adversely affect our stock price. Since our inception, we have generated net losses in most of our fiscal periods. We experienced a net loss of approximately $28.0 million in Fiscal 2013. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. In addition, because we have significant expenses that are fixed or difficult to change rapidly, we are generally unable to reduce expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. We are dependent on support from subcontractors to meet our operating plans and susceptible to losses when such support is delayed or withheld. These factors could cause us to continue to experience net losses in future periods, which would make it difficult to fund our operations and execute our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We are currently under audit of final indirect rates for fiscal years 2005 through 2012, related to our legacy government businesses. We are currently under audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”) for our final indirect rate submissions for fiscal years 2005 through 2012. We believe the indirect costs have been properly recorded for the outstanding audit years. If the outcome of the outstanding audits results in unfavorable adjustments, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operation and cash flow. As a result of the discontinuation of our Government and Thermal Imaging Businesses, we are dependent on our cyber-security business. If we are unable to commercialize our technology, we may not be able to generate or increase our revenues or achieve or sustain profitability. As a result of the discontinuance of our Government and Thermal Imaging Businesses, we are now dependent on our cyber security business for future revenue growth. No assurances can be given that our cyber security business will be successful, or if successful, that we will derive sufficient revenue to generate positive cash flow from operations. In prior years, we have made significant investments to commercialize our technologies without significant success. Furthermore, a majority of our historical total revenues have been generated directly or indirectly from U.S. government customers. Our ability to raise capital to fund continuing operations will be negatively impacted if we are unable to successfully develop our cyber security products. -6- Table of Contents Our ability to raise additional capital to fund our continuing operations and continue as a going concern will be negatively affected if we are unable to successfully develop our cyber security products. Additionally, our goodwill and intangible assets will be subject to impairment if we are unable to successfully develop our cyber security products. We have engaged in multiple financings, which have significantly diluted existing stockholders and will likely result in substantial additional dilution in the future. Assuming conversion or exercise of all of our existing convertible securities as authorized and outstanding as of September 30, 2013, approximately 595.0 million additional shares of Common Stock (or a total of approximately 800.5 million shares) would be outstanding, as compared to the approximately 205.6 million shares of Common Stock issued an outstanding as of September 30, 2013. From October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2013, we have issued approximately 202.9 million shares of Common Stock, largely to fund our operations and retire debt, resulting in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. Any future equity or convertible debt financings would likely result in further dilution to our stockholders. Existing stockholders likely would suffer significant dilution in ownership interests and voting rights, and our stock price could decline as a result of any potential future application of price anti-dilution features of the related debt instruments, if they are not waived. Our debt financing has created substantial and continuing non-cash accounting charges that make it difficult for us to achieve net profit and positive net worth while our debt instruments remain outstanding. Certain of our debt instruments, including the Subordinated Notes (defined below) and the Revolving Credit Facility (defined below), contain features that are deemed to create a derivative liability under accounting principles. At September 30, 2013, our aggregate derivative liability was valued at $19.2 million, mainly as a result of these instruments. Because of the price volatility of our Common Stock, this derivative liability could increase substantially in future reporting periods if the market value of our Common Stock were to increase from the $0.05 per share value as of September 30, 2013. That change in the value of derivative liability would be recorded as an expense in our consolidated statements of operations, making it difficult to achieve net income. In addition, the aggregate recorded derivative liability has already adversely affected our stockholders’ deficit and any future increases in derivative liability would further adversely affect such stockholders’ deficit, making it more difficult for us to satisfy the requirements to list our Common Stock on NASDAQ or other national securities exchange. The effect of these derivative liabilities would ultimately be eliminated if the associated debt instruments were converted to equity in accordance with their terms. Through participation in our debt financings, our primary investors obtained majority control over stockholder voting and substantial control over Board decisions. As of September 30, 2013, Costa Brava and Griffin, our largest stockholders and debt holders, collectively controlled approximately 53% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock and have the ability, following conversion of certain derivative securities, to substantially increase their aggregate percentage ownership. In addition, they have nominated three of the five directors that presently serve on our Board of Directors. Accordingly, Costa Brava and Griffin have significant influence over the outcome of matters that require a stockholder vote or actions by our Board of Directors, and the ability of other stockholders to influence such outcomes has been correspondingly diminished. If we fail to scale our operations adequately, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our consolidated total revenues in Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012 were $501,000 and $0, respectively. To become and remain profitable, we need to materially grow our total revenues or substantially reduce our operating expenses. Such challenges are expected to place a significant strain on management, personnel, infrastructure and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we need to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and expand our operational and financial systems, as well as our manufacturing and service capabilities. All of these endeavors will require substantial additional capital and considerable effort by our management. If we are unable to effectively manage changes in our operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. -7- Table of Contents We are subject to risk of misuse of our technologies by our employees and related partners, which may materially affect our competitiveness in the marketplace. We treat technical data as confidential and generally rely on internal nondisclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting trade secrets, to protect our proprietary information and maintain barriers to competition. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, or that others will not independently develop products or technology that are equivalent or superior to ours. Our ability to exploit our own technologies may be constrained by the rights of third parties who could prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or could require us to obtain costly licenses. Other companies may hold or obtain patents or inventions, or may otherwise claim proprietary rights to technology useful or necessary to our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be required to seek licenses under such proprietary rights of third parties and the cost or availability of these licenses. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more proposed products or relating to current or future technologies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our technology is found to infringe upon the rights of third parties, or if we are unable to obtain sufficient rights to use key technologies, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Producing, enforcing, and protecting patents and other proprietary information can be costly. If we are unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information or if we become subject to infringement claims by others, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may need to engage in future litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. No assurances can be given that, in the future, we will be able to continue to pursue patents to protect our various cyber security technologies from infringement by our competitors. We may also need to engage in litigation to enforce patent rights with respect to future patents, if any. In addition, we may receive communications from third parties asserting that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that any such claims would not result in protracted and costly litigation. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to vigorously defend our proprietary information. We are subject to significant competition that could harm our ability to obtain new business or attract strategic partnerships and could increase the price pressure on our products. We face strong competition from a wide variety of competitors, including large cyber-security and security technology firms. Most of our competitors have considerably greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do, which may make it difficult for us to win new customers or to attract strategic partners. This competition impacts our ability to increase the average selling prices for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Certain of our competitors have a presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition has, in the past, resulted in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. This trend may continue in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continually adapt to unforeseen technological advances, or we may be unable to successfully compete with our competitors. We operate in industries characterized by rapid and continuing technological development and advancements. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will be required to devote substantial resources to improve already technologically complex products. Many companies in these industries devote considerably greater resources to research and development than we do. Developments by any of these companies could have a materially adverse effect on us if we are unable to keep up with the same developments. Our future success will depend on our ability to successfully adapt to any new technological advances in a timely manner. -8- Table of Contents If we are not able to attract and retain key personnel as required, we may be unable to implement our business plan and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of our key employees, including our executive officers. The loss of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have adopted employee equity incentive plans designed to attract and retain key employees, our stock price has declined in recent periods, and no assurances can be given that options or non-vested stock granted under our plans will be effective in retaining key employees. We believe that, as our activities increase and change in character, additional experienced personnel will be required to implement our business plan. Competition for such personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that they will be available when required, or that we will have the ability to attract and retain them. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Because our Common Stock is traded on the OTCQB marketplace, your ability to sell your shares of our Common Stock may be limited due to “penny stock” restrictions and our ability to raise additional capital similarly may be compromised. Our Common Stock falls within the definition of “penny stock” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and is covered by Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. That rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9 potentially affects the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which would also affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. Significant sales of our Common Stock in the public market would likely cause our stock price to fall. The average trading volume of our shares in September 2013 was approximately 108,000 shares per day, compared to the approximately 205,581,000 shares outstanding and the additional approximately 605,714,000 shares potentially outstanding on a fully diluted basis at September 30, 2013. Other than volume limitations imposed on our affiliates, many of the issued and issuable shares of our Common Stock are freely tradable. If the holders of freely tradable shares were to sell a significant number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market, the market price of our Common Stock would likely decline. We have obligations to certain of our debt holders that could require us to register shares of Common Stock held by them and shares issuable upon conversion of their respective debt instruments for resale in a registration statement. Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. The trading price of our Common Stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. The current market price of our Common Stock may not increase in the future. As such, you may not be able to resell your shares of Common Stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our Common Stock could continue to fluctuate or decline in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: ● our cash resources and ability to raise additional funding and repay indebtedness; ● our ability to control costs and improve cash flow; ● our ability to introduce and commercialize new products and achieve broad market acceptance for our products; ● announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; ● quarterly variations in operating results; ● changes in investor perceptions; ● economic and political instability, including acts of war, terrorism and continuing international conflicts; ● changes in the fair value of derivative instruments expense; and ● reduced trading volume on the OTCQB. The trading markets for the equity securities of high technology companies have continued to experience volatility. Such volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We were subject to such a class action lawsuit in the past, and no assurances can be given that we will not be subject to similar class action lawsuits in the future. -9- Table of Contents Future issuances of our shares may lead to future dilution in the value of our common stock, and will lead to a reduction in shareholder voting power. Your investment in our shares may be substantially diluted due to the following: ● issuance of Common Stock, or securities convertible into Common Stock, in connection with funding agreements with third parties and future issuances of Common Stock and preferred stock by the Board of Directors; and ● the Board of Directors has the power to issue additional shares of Common Stock and preferred stock, and the right to determine the voting, dividend, conversion, liquidation, preferences and other conditions of the shares without shareholder approval. Stock issuances may result in reduction of the book value or market price of outstanding shares of Common Stock. If the Company issues any additional shares of Common Stock or preferred stock, proportionate ownership of Common Stock and voting power will be reduced. Further, any new issuance of Common Stock or preferred stock may prevent a change in control or management. We do not plan to pay dividends to holders of Common Stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to the holders of the Common Stock at any time. Accordingly, investors in our securities must rely upon subsequent sales after price appreciation as the sole method to realize a gain on investment. There are no assurances that the price of common stock will ever appreciate in value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 