Risk Factors Our future operating results are highly uncertain. Before deciding to invest in our common stock or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our other filings with the SEC, including any subsequent reports filed on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. We will need to raise additional capital in the near future to fund our operations, and if such capital is not available to us on terms that are acceptable to us, on a timely basis or at all, our viability will be threatened and we may be forced to discontinue our operations. Except for fiscal 2009, in which we realized substantial income from the Patent Sale and License, the deconsolidation of the balance sheet of Optex due to its bankruptcy and a significant reduction of potential future pension expenses, we have historically experienced significant net losses and significant negative cash flows from operations or other uses of cash. As of October 3, 2010 and September 27, 2009, our cash and cash equivalents were $281,600 and $125,700, respectively, and our working capital deficit at said dates was $10.1 million and $6.3 million, respectively. To offset the effect of negative net cash flows, we have historically funded a portion of our operations through multiple equity and debt financings, and to a lesser extent through receivable financing. Our revenues were reduced in fiscal 2009 partially due to our liquidity limitations, which may continue to adversely affect our revenues in the future. We anticipate that we will require additional capital to meet our working capital needs and fund our operations. We cannot assure you that any additional capital from financings or other sources will be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all, or that the proceeds from any financings will be sufficient to address our near term liquidity requirements. If we are not able to obtain additional capital in the near future, we anticipate that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be forced to discontinue our operations. We anticipate that our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to meet our current obligations, including trade payables, payroll and fixed costs; • our ability to procure additional production contracts and government research and development contracts, and the timing of our deliverables under our contracts; • the timing of payments and reimbursements from government and other contracts; • the expenses and outcome of litigation or the enforcement of the FirstMark judgment; • our ability to control costs; • our ability to commercialize our technologies and achieve broad market acceptance for such technologies; • research and development funding requirements; • increased sales and marketing expenses; • technological advancements and competitors’ responses to our products; • capital improvements to new and existing facilities; • our relationships with customers and suppliers; and • general economic conditions including the effects of future economic slowdowns, a slump in the semiconductor market, acts of war or terrorism and the current international conflicts. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to raise additional capital may be limited because, as a company that is quoted on the OTCBB, we are no longer eligible to use Form S-3 to register the resale of securities issued in private financings. Even if available, financings can involve significant costs and expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, diversion of management’s time and efforts, or substantial transaction costs or break-up fees in certain instances. Financings may also involve substantial dilution to existing stockholders, and may cause additional dilution through adjustments to certain of our existing securities under the terms of their antidilution provisions. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, our business and revenues will be adversely affected and we may be unable to continue our operations, develop or enhance our products, expand our sales and marketing programs, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. In September 2010, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market for non-compliance with Nasdaq’s $1.00 per share minimum bid price continued listing requirement and commenced trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”), thereby causing your ability to sell your shares of our common stock to be limited by “penny stock” restrictions and our ability to raise additional capital to potentially be compromised. With the delisting of our common stock, it comes within the definition of “penny stock” as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is covered by Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. That Rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, Rule 15g-9 potentially affects the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and accordingly would also affect the ability of stockholders to sell their securities in the public market. These additional procedures could also limit our ability to raise additional capital in the future. Since 2006, we have engaged in multiple financings, which have significantly diluted existing stockholders and will likely result in substantial additional dilution in the future. Assuming conversion of all of our existing convertible securities and exercise in full of all options and warrants outstanding as of October 3, 2010, an additional approximate 23.0 million shares of our common stock would be outstanding, as compared to the approximately 33.5 million shares of our common stock that were issued and outstanding at that date. Since the start of fiscal 2008 through the date of this report, we have issued approximately 32.5 million shares of our common stock, largely to fund our operations, resulting in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. On August 26, 2008, pursuant to approval of our stockholders, we amended our Certificate of Incorporation to increase our authorized common stock issuable for any purpose from 80,000,000 shares to 150,000,000 shares, which further increased the potential for significant dilution to our existing stockholders. Our secured bridge note financing in November 2008 through February 2009 resulted in the automatic application of price anti-dilution features in our existing securities, which in conjunction with other issuances, substantially increased the potential fully diluted number of shares of our common stock. The Series A-2 Stock that we issued in April 2009 in exchange for convertible notes, resulting in the cancellation of $1 million of debt, as well as the shares of common stock that we issued to the bridge financing investors in April 2009, the Series B Stock and common stock warrants that we issued in September 2009, the convertible debentures and warrants that we issued in our debenture financing in March 2010, the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series C Stock”) that we issued in April 2010, the common stock and common stock warrants that we issued in June 2010, the automatic application of price anti-dilution features in our existing securities resulting from the second close of our common stock private placement in July 2010 and the issuance of the Series C Stock and common stock Warrant to Longview in August 2010 further diluted interests of existing stockholders, such that our potential fully diluted number of shares of our common stock is approximately 56.5 million as of October 3, 2010. In November and December 2010, in conjunction with the private placement of unsecured promissory notes, we incurred the obligation to issue an additional approximate 5.7 million shares of common stock. We anticipate we will pursue additional financings in the future. Any additional equity or convertible debt financings in the future will likely result in further dilution to our stockholders. Existing stockholders also will suffer significant dilution in ownership interests and voting rights and our stock price could decline as a result of potential future application of price anti-dilution features of our Series A-2 Stock and certain warrants, if not waived. We may consider divesting assets to improve our liquidity. We sold a large portion of our patent portfolio in 2009 to address our financial needs and may enter into agreements to sell other assets in the future. In order to fund our operations and repay our existing obligations, we may need to sell certain other significant assets and have engaged in preliminary discussions in this regard. We may not be able to complete such sales on acceptable terms, 15 Table of Contents on a timely basis or at all, and such sales could adversely affect our future revenues. Furthermore, we have lenders with security positions in such assets, and such sales would therefore not be likely to generate any direct benefits to stockholders and could materially impair our ability to maintain our current operations. Significant sales of our common stock in the public market will cause our stock price to fall. The average trading volume of our shares in September 2010 was approximately 239,100 shares per day, compared to the approximately 33.5 million shares outstanding and the additional approximate 23.0 million shares potentially outstanding on a fully diluted basis at October 3, 2010. Other than volume limitations imposed on our affiliates, most of the issued shares of our common stock are freely tradable. If the holders of the freely tradable shares were to sell a significant amount of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. If we raise additional capital in the future through the sale of shares of our common stock to private investors, we may, subject to existing restrictions lapsing or being waived, agree to register these shares for resale on a registration statement as we have done in the past. Upon registration, these additional shares would become freely tradable once sold in the public market, assuming the prospectus delivery and other requirements were met by the sellers, and, if significant in amount, such sales could further adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at the prices that we deem appropriate. The settlement of our various lawsuits with Timothy Looney, the former owner of Optex, resulted in us issuing $2.5 million of secured debt to Mr. Looney, the service of which will pose a significant strain on our liquidity. In April 2010, we issued a 27-month promissory note to Mr. Looney secured by liens and security interests against all of our assets (to the extent permitted by contract, the UCC or other applicable laws), subject to and subordinate to the existing perfected security interests and liens of our senior creditors, Summit Financial Resources, L.P. (“Summit”) and Longview. This note requires us to remit graduated monthly installment payments over a 27-month period to Mr. Looney beginning with a payment of $8,000 in May 2010 and ending with a payment of $300,000 in June 2012. All such payments are applied first to unpaid interest and then to outstanding principal. A final payment of all remaining unpaid principal and interest is due and payable in July 2012. These loan payments may be difficult for us to make from our cash flow from operations and will likely necessitate future financing, the success of which cannot be assured. Enforcement of an anticipated final judgment could threaten our financial viability. Investors that originally financed our acquisition of Optex filed a motion for summary judgment against us regarding alleged unpaid obligations under a December 2006 settlement agreement between us and them and, although the motion was granted in January 2010, the judgment has not yet been entered as of the date of this report. We have recorded approximately $1.3 million of expense in our financial statements related to these obligations at October 3, 2010, which we expect to be the approximate amount of this judgment when it is entered. We have attempted to settle this dispute with the plaintiffs, but with no success to date. If the plaintiffs attempt to enforce collection of the expected final judgment, rather than entering into some kind of manageable settlement agreement, our financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted and our ability to continue our operations could be threatened. We have historically generated substantial losses, which, if continued, could make it difficult to fund our operations or successfully execute our business plan, and could adversely affect our stock price. Since our inception, we have generated net losses in most of our fiscal periods. Had it not been for the gains from the Patent Sale and License, the deconsolidation of Optex due to its bankruptcy and a significant reduction of potential future pension expenses, we would have experienced a substantial net loss in fiscal 2009. We experienced a net loss of approximately $11.2 million in fiscal 2010. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. In addition, because we have significant expenses that are fixed or difficult to change rapidly, we generally are unable to reduce expenses significantly in the short-term to compensate for any unexpected delay or decrease in anticipated revenues. We are dependent on support from subcontractors to meet our operating plans and susceptible to losses when such support is delayed. Such factors could cause us to continue to experience net losses in future periods, which will make it difficult to fund our operations and achieve our business plan, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our government-funded research and development business depends on a limited number of customers, and if any of these customers terminate or reduce their contracts with us, or if we cannot obtain additional government contracts in the future, our revenues will decline and our results of operations will be adversely affected. For fiscal 16 Table of Contents 2009, approximately 33% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Air Force and approximately 16% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with the U.S. Army. For fiscal 2010, approximately 28%, 20% and 19% of our total revenues were generated from research and development contracts with certain classified U.S. government agencies, the U.S. Army and Optics 1, Inc., a defense contractor, respectively. Although we ultimately plan to shift our focus to include the commercialization of our technology, we expect to continue to be dependent upon research and development contracts with federal agencies and their contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our dependency on a few contract sources increases the risks of disruption in this area of our business or significant fluctuations in quarterly revenue, either of which could adversely affect our consolidated revenues and results of operations. Because our operations currently depend on government contracts and subcontracts, we face additional risks related to contracting with the federal government, including federal budget issues and fixed price contracts, that could materially and adversely affect our business. Future political and economic conditions are uncertain and may directly and indirectly affect the quantity and allocation of expenditures by federal agencies. Even the timing of incremental funding commitments to existing, but partially funded, contracts can be affected by these factors. Therefore, cutbacks or re-allocations in the federal budget could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations as long as research and development contracts remain an important element of our business. Obtaining government contracts may also involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, budgetary constraints, political agendas, extensive specification development and price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each government agency also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies. Governmental agencies also often retain some portion of fees payable upon completion of a project and collection of these fees may be delayed for several months or even years, in some instances. In addition, a number of our government contracts are fixed price contracts, which may prevent us from recovering costs incurred in excess of budgeted costs for such contracts. Fixed price contracts require us to estimate the total project cost based on preliminary projections of the project’s requirements. The financial viability of any given project depends in large part on our ability to estimate such costs accurately and complete the project on a timely basis. In the event our actual costs exceed fixed contractual costs of either our research and development contracts or our production orders, we will not be able to recover the excess costs. Our government contracts are also subject to termination or renegotiation at the convenience of the government, which could result in a large decline in revenue in any given quarter. Although government contracts have provisions providing for the reimbursement of costs associated with termination, the termination of a material contract at a time when our funded backlog does not permit redeployment of our staff could result in reductions of employees. We have in the past chosen to incur excess overhead in order to retain trained employees during delays in contract funding. We also have had to reduce our staff from time-to-time because of fluctuations in our funded government contract base. In addition, the timing of payments from government contracts is also subject to significant fluctuation and potential delay, depending on the government agency involved. Any such delay could result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Since a substantial majority of our total revenues in the last two fiscal years were derived directly or indirectly from government customers, these risks can materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to commercialize our technology, we may not be able to increase our revenues or achieve or sustain profitability. Since commencing operations, we have developed technology, principally under government research contracts, for various defense-based applications. However, since our margins on government contracts are generally limited, and our revenues from such contracts are tied to government budget cycles and influenced by numerous political and economic factors beyond our control, and are subject to our ability to win additional contracts, our long-term prospects of realizing significant returns from our technology or achieving and maintaining profitability will likely also require penetration of commercial markets. In prior years, we have made significant investments to commercialize our technologies without significant success. These efforts included the purchase and later shut down of a manufacturing line co-located at an IBM facility, the formation of the Novalog, MSI, Silicon Film, RedHawk and iNetWorks subsidiaries and the development of various stacked-memory products intended for commercial markets in addition to military and aerospace applications. These investments have not resulted in consolidated profitability to date, other than the profit realized in fiscal 2009 largely from the significant gains described above, and a majority of our total 17 Table of Contents revenues for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 were still generated from governmental customers. Furthermore, the Optex Asset Sale has eliminated a substantial future contributor to our consolidated revenues. The significant overseas military operations may require diversions of government research and development funding, thereby causing disruptions to our contracts or otherwise adversely impact our revenues. In the near term, the funding of significant U.S. military operations may cause disruptions in funding of government contracts. Since military operations of substantial magnitude are not routinely included in U.S. defense budgets, supplemental legislative funding actions are required to finance such operations. Even when such legislation is enacted, it may not be adequate for ongoing operations, causing other defense funding sources to be temporarily or permanently diverted. Such diversion could produce interruptions in funding or delays in receipt of our research and development contracts, causing disruptions to and material adverse effects on our operations. In addition, concerns about international conflicts and the effects of terrorist and other military activity have resulted in unsettled worldwide economic conditions. These conditions make it difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business opportunities, in turn making it difficult for us to plan our current and future allocation of resources and increasing the risks that our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to scale our operations adequately, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our consolidated total revenues in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 were $11.5 million and $11.7 million, respectively. To become and remain profitable, we will need to materially grow our consolidated total revenues or substantially reduce our operating expenses. Such challenges are expected to place a significant strain on our management personnel, infrastructure and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and expand our operational and financial systems, as well as our manufacturing and service capabilities. All of these endeavors will require substantial additional capital and substantial effort by our management. If we are unable to effectively manage changes in our operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Historically, we have primarily depended on third party contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a majority of our products and any failure to secure and maintain sufficient manufacturing capacity or quality products could materially and adversely affect our business. For our existing products, we primarily have used contract manufacturers to fabricate and assemble our stacked chip, microchip and sensor products. Our internal manufacturing capabilities consist primarily of assembly, calibration and test functions for our thermal camera products. We have typically used single contract manufacturing sources for our historical products and do not have long-term, guaranteed contracts with such sources. As a result, we face several significant risks, including: • a lack of guaranteed supply of products and higher prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. In addition, the manufacture of our products is a highly complex and technologically demanding process and we are dependent upon our contract manufacturers to minimize the likelihood of reduced manufacturing yields or quality issues. We currently do not have any long-term supply contracts with any of our manufacturers and do not have the capability or capacity to manufacture our products in-house in large quantities. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity with our existing manufacturers, implement manufacturing of some of our new products at other contract manufacturers or scale our internal capabilities, our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations would be materially adversely impacted. If we are not able to obtain broad market acceptance of our new and existing products, our revenues and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We generally focus on emerging markets. Market reaction to new products in these circumstances can be difficult to predict. Many of our planned products incorporate our chip stacking technologies that have not yet achieved broad market acceptance. We cannot assure you that our present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis. In addition, due to our historical focus on research and development, we have a limited history of competing in the intensely competitive commercial electronics industry. As such, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture and 18 Table of Contents market additional commercial product lines or that such product lines will be accepted in the commercial marketplace. If we are not successful in commercializing our new products, our ability to generate revenues and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our fiscal 2005, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 audits revealed material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, including the failure of such controls to identify the need to record a post-employment obligation for our Executive Salary Continuation Plan, which resulted in a restatement of our financial statements. Future testing could reveal that previously identified material weaknesses have not been remediated or that new material weaknesses have developed. Furthermore, we do not presently have the financial resources and infrastructure to address our future plans, which puts us at risk of future material weaknesses. During the course of future testing, we may identify other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, in addition to the ones previously identified, which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet future deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404(a). In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we will not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future. Our stock price has been subject to significant volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in the past. Since January 2000, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $0.08 per share in September 2010 and as high as $3,750.00 per share in January 2000 (after giving effect to two reverse stock splits subsequent to January 2000). The current market price of our common stock may not increase in the future. As such, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of the common stock could continue to fluctuate or decline in the future in response to various factors, including, but not limited to: • the impact and outcome of pending litigation; • our cash resources and ability to raise additional funding and repay indebtedness; • reduced trading volume on the OTCBB; • quarterly variations in operating results; • government budget reallocations or delays in or lack of funding for specific projects; • our ability to control costs and improve cash flow; • our ability to introduce and commercialize new products and achieve broad market acceptance for our products; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • changes in investor perceptions; • economic and political instability, including acts of war, terrorism and continuing international conflicts; and • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts. The trading markets for the equity securities of high technology companies have continued to experience volatility. Such volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been the subject of securities class action litigation. We were subject to a class action lawsuit that diverted management’s attention and resources from other matters until it was settled in June 2004. We cannot guarantee you that we will not be subject to similar class action lawsuits in the future. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to technological risk from the developments of competitors, and our Patent Sale and License has removed barriers to competition. We sold most of our then-issued and pending patents pursuant to the Patent Sale and License. Although we retain a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the patented technology that we sold in our business, the purchaser of our patent assets is entitled to use those patents for any purpose, including possible competition with us. We treat technical data as confidential and generally rely on internal nondisclosure safeguards, including confidentiality agreements with employees, and on laws protecting trade secrets, to protect our proprietary information and maintain barriers to competition. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will adequately protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information or that others will not independently develop products or technology that are equivalent or superior to ours. Our ability to exploit our own technologies may be constrained by the rights of third parties who could prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or could require us to obtain costly licenses. Other companies may hold or obtain patents or inventions or may otherwise claim proprietary rights to technology useful or necessary to our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be required to seek licenses under such proprietary rights of third parties and the cost or availability of these licenses. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more proposed products or relating to current or future technologies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our technology is found to infringe upon the rights of third parties, or if we are unable to gain sufficient rights to use key technologies, our ability to compete would be harmed and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Enforcing and protecting patents and other proprietary information can be costly. If we are not able to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information or if we become subject to infringement claims by others, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We may need to engage in future litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. The purchaser of our patents may choose to be more aggressive in pursuing its rights with respect to the patents it purchased from us, which could lead to significant litigation and possible attempts by others to invalidate such patents. If such attempts are successful, we might not be able to use this technology in the future. We also may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce patent rights with respect to future patents, if any. In addition, we may receive in the future communications from third parties asserting that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that any such claims would not result in protracted and costly litigation. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to vigorously defend our proprietary information. Our proprietary information and other intellectual property rights are subject to government use which, in some instances, limits our ability to capitalize on them. Whatever degree of protection, if any, is afforded to us through patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property generally will not extend to government markets that utilize certain segments of our technology. The government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under government contracts, including portions of our stacked circuitry technology. While we are generally free to commercially exploit these government-funded technologies, and we may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users of the same, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our attempts to do so. We are subject to significant competition that could harm our ability to win new business or attract strategic partnerships and could increase the price pressure on our products. We face strong competition from a wide variety of competitors, including large, multinational semiconductor design firms and aerospace firms. Most of our competitors have considerably greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we or our subsidiaries do, which may make it difficult to win new contracts or to attract strategic partners. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. Certain of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the 20 Table of Contents promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition has in the past resulted in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. This trend may continue in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continually adapt to unforeseen technological advances, or we may not be able to successfully compete with our competitors. We operate in industries characterized by rapid and continuing technological development and advancements. Accordingly, we anticipate that we will be required to devote substantial resources to improve already technologically complex products. Many companies in these industries devote considerably greater resources to research and development than we do. Developments by any of these companies could have a materially adverse effect on us if we are not able to keep up with the same developments. Our future success will depend on our ability to successfully adapt to any new technological advances in a timely manner, or at all. We do not plan to pay dividends to holders of common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to the holders of the common stock at any time. Accordingly, investors in our securities must rely upon subsequent sales after price appreciation as the sole method to realize a gain on investment. There are no assurances that the price of common stock will ever appreciate in value. Investors seeking cash dividends should not buy our securities. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our key personnel. If we are not able to retain our key personnel or attract additional key personnel as required, we may not be able to implement our business plan and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have adopted employee equity incentive plans designed to attract and retain key employees, our stock price has declined in recent periods, and we cannot guarantee that options or non-vested stock granted under our plans will be effective in retaining key employees. We do not presently maintain “key man” insurance on any key employees. We believe that, as our activities increase and change in character, additional, experienced personnel will be required to implement our business plan. Competition for such personnel is intense and we cannot assure you that they will be available when required, or that we will have the ability to attract and retain them. We may be subject to additional risks. The risks and uncertainties described above are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 